DRN-2479093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a package holiday abroad in December 2019 and their holiday was 
due to start on 4 March 2020. They were due to spend some time in one country, before 
flying onto another island on 19 March 2020, staying there until their planned return on 27 
March 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker on 17 January 
2020. Cover under the policy started on 7 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs M flew abroad as planned on 4 March 2020. However, on 17 March 2020, the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs M say their travel agent advised them to return 
home, although the FCO didnt advise UK nationals abroad to return home until 23 March 
2020. As their policy didnt cover any claims for trips where the FCO had advised against 
travel, Mr and Mrs M decided not to fly onto the second leg of their trip and instead flew 
home on 19 March 2020. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs of 
cutting short their trip.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the cutting your trip short section of the policy 
didnt cover claims which happened because of the FCO advising against all but essential 
travel. It said Mr and Mrs Ms situation simply wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Great Lakes decision. They said theyd bought a 
comprehensive policy and they thought it would cover everything. They asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs M if theyd been able to recover any of their curtailment 
costs from their package holiday provider. Mr and Mrs M got in touch with their package 
holiday provider, which agreed to refund all of their curtailment costs. Mr and Mrs M still 
wanted to pursue a complaint about Great Lakes though, as they didnt think it was right that 
it had got away without paying out. They suggested that Great Lakes ought to pay the 
balance of their claim to charity.
The investigator ultimately didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She 
noted that the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover claims where the FCO had 
advised against essential travel. But that it also specifically excluded cover in this situation. 
She didnt think this was fair and reasonable that Mr and Mrs M couldve been left without 
any cover.
However, she also saw that the policy didnt cover costs which were recoverable elsewhere. 
As Mr and Mrs M had had a full refund of their costs from their package holiday provider, she 
thought theyd been able to recover all of their costs. So she didnt think Great Lakes had 
any further liability under the policy terms and she didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
She also explained that were not the industry regulator, so we cant punish or fine 
businesses.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt the position Great Lakes had potentially put them in 
wasnt legal business practice. They considered that itd used a get out of jail free card to 
get out of paying the claim. They felt it might constitute mis-selling. They asked what the 
point was of taking out the insurance if Great Lakes could use unfair and unreasonable 
practices to avoid paying claims. They wanted to know if Great Lakes had changed its policy 
to this type of claim. They were concerned that Great Lakes was misleading and 
misrepresenting its responsibilities.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Great Lakes needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the individual 
circumstances of this complaint in deciding whether or not Great Lakes needs to pay 
anything.
First, I think it would be helpful if I explain our role. As the investigator explained, were not 
the industry regulator. We consider complaints brought by individual consumers about a 
financial business where a consumer feels that the business has done something wrong. We 
consider whether any act on error on the part of a financial business caused a consumer to 
lose out. We cant impose sanctions on financial businesses and we cant fine or punish 
them. Thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So while I 
appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs M feel about their complaint and the fact Great Lakes 
ultimately didnt pay out on their claim; much of what theyre hoping for me to look at simply 
arent things I can consider.
What I can do though is to look at whether Great Lakes needs to reconsider or settle Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs M say their travel agent advised them to cut short their trip as a result of the 
FCO guidance given on 17 March 2020. They seem to have been aware that their policy 
didnt provide any cover if they travelled against FCO advice. So I can entirely understand 
why Mr and Mrs M made arrangements to cut short their trip and fly home instead of 
travelling onto another country when they could have potentially been left uninsured. I dont 
doubt how frustrating and upsetting it mustve been for them when Great Lakes turned down 
their claim.
But in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I need to consider whether 
Great Lakes decision was wrong at this point. I say that because Mr and Mrs Ms package 
holiday provider has provided them with a full refund of their costs. The policy terms and 
conditions include this specific exclusion:
We will not pay for any costs which are recoverable elsewhere. 
Ive looked closely at Mr and Mrs Ms booking invoice. I can see their trip was booked as part 
of a package. Package holidays provide travellers with some protection and in some circumstances, package holiday providers are responsible for refunding holidays which it has 
to cancel. So given Mr and Mrs M say their travel agent told them to cut short their trip; I 
think that even if Great Lakes agreed to consider Mr and Mrs Ms claim, itd likely have 
asked them to try and obtain a refund of their lost holiday costs before it agreed to pay out.
The package provider has now refunded Mr and Mrs M for the costs they were claiming, 
which I was very pleased to hear. But this does mean theyve now been able to recover their 
costs from elsewhere. This means that theres no financial loss left for Great Lakes to pay. 
The purpose of an insurance policy is to indemnify a policyholder for financial losses  to put 
them back in the position they were in immediately before the loss happened. As Mr and Mrs 
M have been refunded the costs associated with cutting short their trip, it seems the package 
provider has fully indemnified them for their losses. It simply wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to direct Great Lakes to pay the balance of the claim to a third party.
I understand that my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M and I 
do appreciate that the way Great Lakes handled their claim caused them frustration. But 
overall, I dont think Great Lakes needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman