DRN-3758134
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against their 
home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr and Mrs D reported a leak from a radiator to Aviva in November 2021. Mr D says hed 
isolated the leak and used towels to stem the flow of water. Mr and Mrs D complained Aviva 
could only send an engineer the following day to assist with the claim, which was 
unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D say this is a home emergency policy, and Aviva let them down by failing to 
attend the same day they reported the leak. As such, they think Aviva should refund the 
premiums. 
Aviva say Mr D reported the leak was isolated when he called to report the claim. And 
although Mr and Mrs D had no access to mains water, they thought an engineer 
appointment being booked for the following day was reasonable. They also say the policy 
isnt an emergency service nor is it advertised as such. 
Aviva offered to consider reimbursing the amount Mr and Mrs D paid to instruct their own 
engineer, upon receipt of an invoice. 
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He considered the policy terms and thought 
Aviva offered a reasonable engineers appointment based on these, and what Mr D reported. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D argue the policy says it offers peace of mind, engineer appointments to suit a 
policyholder, and an engineer will attend within a reasonable timescale. They say Aviva let 
them down by failing to send an engineer the same day they reported the claim. 
I do understand their frustration that the policy didnt meet their expectations when they 
needed it. But I dont think this should mean theyre due a refund of premiums. Ill explain 
why.  
Ive considered the policy documents. It doesnt promise engineers will attend the same day, 
and it isnt an emergency service. Rather, Aviva offer a phone service which operates 24/7, 
365 days a year. It also says Aviva will attend within a reasonable timescale. Given its been 
said Mr D reported to Aviva the leak had been isolated when he raised the claim, I find an 
engineer being booked the following day to assist them was reasonable. 
I might have viewed things differently had Mr and Mrs D reported the leak hadnt been 
isolated. But that said, given they had already been given the next available appointment, its 
likely this appointment date would have remained, and Aviva could have instructed Mr and 
Mrs D to isolate the leak on the phone to mitigate any further damage being caused  until 
their next available engineer could assist. 
I know Mr and Mrs Ds expectations of an engineer visiting within a reasonable timescale 
should mean the same day the claim is reported  but that isnt always possible. The policy 
doesnt commit to specific service levels in this respect. As such, based on what Ive 
reviewed, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly here, or failed to provide Mr and Mrs D with an 
engineers appointment within what Id consider to be a reasonable timescale. 
Therefore, whilst Im sorry Mr and Mrs D feel Aviva failed to meet their expectations here, Im 
unable to agree they should refund any premiums paid. I say this because Im not satisfied 
Aviva failed to handle the claim in line with the policy terms. So, I wont be requiring Aviva to 
do anything.  
Mr and Mrs D should provide Aviva with a copy of the invoice if they paid a private engineer 
to undertake the works, as Aviva said they would look to cover this. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D. But my decision ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman