DRN-4504769
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that AWP P&C SA, the underwriter of her travel insurance policy, gave 
her incorrect advice before she cancelled her holiday, resulting in her losing out financially.
All references to AWP include its claim handlers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance 
claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
I know Miss D will be very disappointed but Im not going to direct AWP to do anything more 
than its already offered to put things right. Ill explain why.
Everyone accepts that Miss D was given the wrong advice by AWP when calling it to 
discuss the reasons why she may need to cancel her holiday. It said she would be 
covered for the cost of the trip. That wasnt right because although the circumstances 
leading to the cancellation of the holiday was an insured event under the cancellation 
section of the policy (section 1), the policy terms reflect that shes only covered up to 
the financial limit of £5,000. And the cost of the holiday was over twice this amount. 
AWP has paid Miss D £5,000, as per the policy limit. Its also apologised and offered 
her £250 compensation as gesture of goodwill, which I understand Miss D didnt 
accept.  She says that if she was given the right advice, her travel companion 
wouldve still travelled on their own.
Even if I accepted that was the case, AWP has provided a screenshot reflecting that 
Miss Ds companion wasnt a beneficiary under the policy. Although the policy does 
provide for a travel companion being covered under the policy (when an upgrade has 
been paid), Im satisfied an upgrade wasnt bought in this case. So, even if Miss Ds 
companion lost out on the opportunity of going on the holiday without Miss D 
because of the incorrect information being given by AWP, I dont have any power to 
award compensation personally to Miss Ds companion for this missed opportunity to 
continue with their travel plans, or disappointment caused by the incorrect advice. 
Thats because she isnt personally covered under the policy. 
I can, of course, understand Miss Ds upset and disappointment when finding out that 
shed been given the wrong information and that she wasnt going to be covered in 
full for the amount shed paid for the holiday for her and her companion. I have a lot 
of empathy for her situation. As she says, she called AWP and expected that shed 
be given the correct information. Particularly given what she says about her eyesight 
at the time and being unable to read the policy terms.
However, on the balance of probabilities, if the correct advice had been given, Im 
satisfied Miss D still wouldnt have been able to go on the trip given the medical 
advice shed received not to fly.  Shes also said in her complaint form to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service that although she enquired, the travel provider wasnt 
able to rearrange the trip. She also tried (unsuccessfully) to find someone else to go 
on the trip in her place to travel with her companion.
Given the financial limits in the policy under the cancellation section of the policy, Im 
satisfied her claim would have always been limited to £5,000.
Miss D says she feel discriminated against. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
doesnt have the power to make any findings that the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) 
has been breached. Only a Court can do that. However, if relevant, I am required to 
take the provisions of the Act into account when considering whats fair and 
reasonable (along with other relevant law, regulations, industry guidance and good 
industry practice)  which is what I have done here. 
Im satisfied that AWPs offer to pay £250 compensation (which includes Miss Ds 
personal disappointment that her companion didnt end up travelling because of the 
incorrect advice received from AWP) is reasonable. I think it fairly reflects the 
distress, shock and inconvenience Miss D personally experienced because of AWPs 
error in this case (which includes AWPs delays  accepted in its final response letter 
dated May 2023  and Miss Ds regular calls to AWP after she was eventually given 
the correct information at the end of March 2023). 
Putting things right
I understand the offer of £250 compensation set out in the final response letter wasnt 
accepted so hasnt been paid. That being the case, Im satisfied that AWP should pay £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience its already offered.
My final decision
AWP P&C SA has already made an offer to pay £250 to Miss D to settle the complaint and I 
think thats fair in all the circumstances. My final decision is that AWP P&C SA should pay 
£250 to Miss D if it hasnt already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman