DRN-3286375
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains Hiscox Insurance Company Limited turned
down a claim it made on its business protection insurance policy. S is represented by its
director, Mr T.
What happened
S holds business protection insurance with Hiscox. In September 2020 Mr T met with
someone who he thought was a potential investor in S. During the meeting Mr T says he
handed his business phone to that individual who he believes compromised the security of
the bitcoin wallet application on that phone.
Later that day Mr T used £40,000 from Ss business bank account to add bitcoin to the wallet
to facilitate the business investment. That was taken from the wallet shortly afterwards; Mr T
believes that was by the individual hed met earlier that day. He reported this to the police
and engaged a specialist company to investigate what happened.
In early October Mr T called Hiscox and asked for details of his policy as he said he might
need to make a claim. During that call he added cover for cyber data  financial crime and
fraud to his existing policy. On 27 November Mr T contacted Hiscox to make a claim.
Hiscox turned this down in early December. It said the claim had been considered under the
financial crime and fraud extension to Ss policy. However, the incident had taken place prior
to this being added. As the policy didnt covers pre-existing problems it didnt think what
happened was covered under this part of the policy. And it didnt think Ss existing policy
covered this either.
Mr T argued it should be covered under the cyber and data section of the policy. Hiscox said
the section hed quoted only applied where a claim had been made against S (in the
circumstances described in the policy) and that wasnt the case here. It considered whether
the claim could be considered under the your losses part of the cyber and data section but
didnt believe that was the case. Thats because the policy required there to have been
unauthorised acquisition, access, use or disclosure of, or the loss of theft of, personal data
or confidential corporate information. It didnt think that was the case here.
Our investigator agreed S wasnt covered under the financial crime and fraud extension to
the policy because this had been taken out after the incident giving rise to the claim took
place. And she didnt think there was a valid claim under the cyber and data your losses
section. So she didnt think Hiscox had done anything wrong in turning down the claim.
Mr T didnt agree. He said the police had confirmed the case could not be considered a fraud
or financial crime but the policy nevertheless covered claims against S which arose from the
unauthorised access of confidential information. The loan S had taken out was now due and
was being claimed from it. So he thought the policy should cover this. He said the section of
the policy which related to directors cover hadnt been considered and should in itself
provide cover of up to £10,000 for what happened. He didnt feel hed been given a proper
explanation as to why cover wasnt being provided.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Hiscox has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr T doesnt feel the claim would fall within the fraud and financial crime section
of the policy because the police told him the case wouldnt be considered as such. However,
I dont think that is whats been said. The letter hes provided from Action Fraud says it has
not been possible to identify a line of enquiry which a law enforcement organisation in the
United Kingdom could pursue. That isnt the same as saying a crime hasnt been
committed.
But I agree with our investigator the claim wouldnt in any case be covered under the fraud
and financial crime extension. That section of the policy contains a general exclusion for pre-
existing problems which it defines as anything likely to lead to a claim, loss or other liability
under this section, which you knew or ought reasonably to have known about before we
agreed to insure you. Its clear Mr T was aware of the loss to S when this section of the
policy was added.
Ive gone on to consider whether there are other areas of the policy which might cover the
claim S made. In correspondence with Hiscox, Mr T first argued the claim should be
considered under the claims against you section of the professional indemnity part of Ss
policy.
The professional indemnity section of the policy does, in principle, provide cover for claims
made against S. And I appreciate because the money S lost was from a loan then the
company providing that loan might make a claim against it for non-payment (though I havent
seen specific evidence of such a claim being made).
But the policy only provides cover where the third-party claim relates to a specified set of
actual or alleged events. I think any claim Ss loan provider made against it would be for
non- payment. That isnt one of the specified events this section of the policy covers.
Mr T went on to argue the claim should be covered under cyber and data  your own losses
and claims and investigations against you. He specifically referenced the privacy liability
section of this part of the policy. But I think theres a similar issue. Even if the loan provider
has made a claim against S, cover is only provided where that claim is for one of the
specified privacy breaches in the policy. Those are:
a) breach, violation or infringement of any right to privacy, consumer data protection
law, or other legal protection for personal data;
b) breach of duty to maintain the security or confidentiality of personal data;
c) breach of any duty of confidence, including in respect of any commercial
information; or
d) breach of any contractual duty to maintain the security or confidentiality of personal
data, including under a payment card processing agreement with any bank or
payment processor or under your public facing privacy policy;I havent seen anything to show any claim the loan provider made against S was for one of
those things. And a claim for repayment or non-payment of a loan wouldnt fall within them 
or any of the other things this part of the policy covers.
However, this section of the policy also covers your losses. Ive thought about whether S
has a valid claim under that. The policy provides cover:
If during the period of insurance, and in the course of your business or advertising, you
discover or reasonably suspect any:
1. breach;
2. security failure;
3. illegal threat; or
4. cyber attack against you;
Ive reviewed the report Mr T provided from the specialist company who investigated what
happened. Their conclusion was when Mr T handed his phone to the individual he met this
either enabled them to access the backup seed phrase (a list of words which provide access
to the bit coin wallet) or capture its secret QR code. That then enabled them to access it
after the bit coins were purchased.
Looking at the definitions in the policy and what happened I dont think any illegal threat or
cyber attack has been made against S. However, Mr T has argued there has been
unauthorised access to confidential information. And the definition of breach in the policy is
The unauthorised acquisition, access, use or disclosure of, or the loss or theft of, personal
data or confidential corporate information.
The policy definition of personal data is individually identifiable information about a data
subject. Based on the information in the specialist report I dont think any personal data has
been used in this case. The report says it was either the seed phrase or QR code which was
used to access the bitcoin wallet and I havent seen anything to show that was personal data
as defined by the policy.
Ive thought about whether this could be regarded as confidential corporate information. That
term isnt defined in the policy but Hiscox has argued its intended to cover things like
business plans, operating strategies and product information. However, while I appreciate it
might well cover that, I think corporate passwords which enable someone to access
sensitive business related information might reasonably be regarded as confidential
corporate information.
Mr T told us that both the phone and the bitcoin wallet were in the name of his business. So I
think this section of the policy could potentially be engaged. I also think its possible that
what happened might be considered a security failure. Thats defined as any failure by you
or by others on your behalf (including but not limited to your sub-contractors and
outsourcers) in securing your computer system against unauthorised electronic access or
use.
But even if whats happened could meet one or both of those definitions what S wants is for
Hiscox to reimburse the loss of £40,000 its incurred. I dont think thats covered by this part
of the policy. For example, although the policy will pay for Breach costs thats defined as
the reasonable and necessary costs incurred by you with our prior written agreement in
direct response to an actual or suspected breach. And it goes on to set out what that
includes. But S isnt claiming for costs incurred in responding to an actual or suspected
breach. Its claim is for the loss suffered as a result of it. I cant see thats covered by this
section of the policy.Finally, Mr T has said the directors section of the policy should provide cover for what
happened. But I dont agree. I appreciate the cyber and data section of the policy does
include directors personal cover. But that only applies where the insured person (Mr T in this
case) has suffered a direct financial loss or a claim has been brought against him. I havent
seen anything to show either of those things apply here. In any case this section only applies
where the claim would otherwise have been covered if brought against S.
As a result, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the claim S has made is covered
by its policy. And I dont think Hiscox acted unfairly in turning this down.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hiscox didnt have any comments. Mr T asked some questions (which our investigator 
responded to) but didnt provide any comments on the provisional decision itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided any further comments for me to consider I dont have any 
reason to change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr T (on behalf of S) to accept or reject my decision before 3 
March 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman