DRN-4054470
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction on his account he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr H received a call from someone pretending to be Monzo. He was told there 
was a pending transaction on his account, and they needed to verify his account as well as 
whether it was him making the transaction. He confirmed it wasnt him that attempted the 
transaction, so he was told to delete the app as it was no longer safe. On the same day an 
Apple Pay token was set up on a new iPhone device, and the following day a transaction 
was made for £9,496.
Mr H complained to Monzo about this payment. It concluded that it was authorised by Mr H 
as he approved the Apple pay token on the other partys device. But it paid him £50 
compensation for the number of people who hed had to speak to in order to raise this issue 
and his complaint. Mr H didnt agree with the outcome and came to our service. 
When Monzo provided its file to us it recognised the payment wasnt made by Mr H, but 
instead said he was grossly negligent by approving the token on a different device to what 
he held. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She couldnt be satisfied with how the 
Apple Pay token was set up on the fraudsters device without Mr Hs involvement, so didnt 
feel Monzo were liable to refund his loss. She felt its offer of £50 compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. Mr H remained unhappy as he refutes authorising this transaction and so 
the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in mid-March; my provisional findings were:
Im minded to say Monzo is liable to refund Mr H for the following reasons:
Monzo has now accepted this was an unauthorised transaction. In line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, Monzo can only hold Mr H liable if he failed 
with gross negligence or intent. Here, it refused to refund him because it asserts Mr 
H failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep his 
personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded thats the case. Ill 
explain why.
Mr H said the caller knew his name, address and card details. Its not clear how the 
fraudster knew this information, as Mr H hasnt said he responded to any phishing 
emails or text messages where he mightve entered his details. But we know there 
are several ways this couldve been obtained without Mr Hs involvement. Im 
satisfied in this case that the fraudster held this information already and so this is, in 
part, why Mr H was persuaded he was speaking to his bank.
I accept what further persuaded him that it was his bank calling was because the 
fraudster tricked him into thinking a transaction had been attempted from his account, 
and so told him to decline this if it wasnt him. Which he duly did. Monzo appears to 
accept that Mr H did decline something in his app, so what the fraudster told him was 
happening was being replicated in his genuine banking app.
Taking this into account, I can see why Mr H trusted the fraudster was calling from 
Monzo.
The evidence shows that an Apple Pay token was approved and added to an iPhone 
device. Mr H has a Samsung phone, so we know it wasnt his phone that the Apple 
Pay token was added to. To add Apple Pay to a new device, it would require 
someone to add the card details to the new device, meaning the fraudster entered 
the card details into their device to start the process of setting it up. After that, Mr H 
wouldve seen a screen that said Finish adding your card to Apple Pay. He 
wouldve then had to click Add card followed by entering either his PIN or using 
biometrics on the next screen. Mr H says he cant remember doing this or being 
asked to enter his PIN but if he did, he did so unknowingly.
Monzo point out that Mr H ought to have questioned why he was setting up Apple 
Pay when he had an Android phone. I accept he couldve done this, but I dont think 
him not doing so meant he was significantly careless here  to say that he failed with 
gross negligence.
I accept in the moment, with the false sense of risk created around his account, he 
may have missed the messaging around Apple pay. We know Mr H was in his app 
around the time, having declined a payment attempt and was also being told to follow 
a process to delete his app. His testimony suggests a sense of urgency was created 
 he had 30 missed calls about the activity on his account, and as he believed he 
was speaking to his bank, he wouldve followed the steps advised as quickly as 
possible to secure his funds. So possibly not necessarily reading all the information 
and taking the same care youd expect from someone outside of a pressure situation. 
But I dont agree this makes him significantly careless. As he was, in his own way, 
acting with care to protect his funds.
What I bear in mind here is that Mr H received a call from someone claiming to be his 
bank in which he was told there was attempted fraud on his account, and so he 
needed to take steps to protect himself. Im further mindful of the few steps needed 
and how quickly this wouldve happened  this wasnt a long-drawn-out process that 
gave Mr H much pause for thought. In any event, there were no warnings to suggest 
he was adding Apple Pay to another device; putting his account at risk; and giving full 
access to an unknown party.
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mr Hs actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that he failed with gross negligence. I intend to say 
that he isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo needs to put things right  by 
refunding his losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to 
compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
While not impacting my outcome, Mr H has discussed a few other points such as him 
switching off notifications due to a social media post he saw by Monzo. I dont agree 
with his stance that this was a direct instruction by his bank to not monitor his 
banking or that he should have taken this post in such a manner.Monzo offered £50 compensation given Mr Hs frustration with the number of people 
he spoke to through its in-app chat function. Given the circumstances of the 
complaint, I intend to say this a fair award to reflect the distress caused to him. And 
this amount has already been paid.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, however Monzo didnt accept. It still considered 
Mr Hs actions grossly negligent, saying he knew he was setting up an Apple Pay token and 
as he had an Android device, this action was nonsensical. It also said he followed an 
instruction from a third party that had no business requesting this action in the first place. So 
the case has been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings, so I uphold this 
complaint.
As Ive already set out in my provisional decision, I accept that had Mr H seen and 
understood the messaging around Apple Pay, he couldve questioned this. But I dont think 
him not doing so meant he was significantly careless here  to say that he failed with gross 
negligence. I accept in the moment, with the false sense of risk created around his account, 
he may have missed the messaging around Apple pay. I dont agree this makes him 
significantly careless as he was, as I have already set out, in his own way acting with care to 
protect his funds.
Monzo also argues that Mr H followed instructions from a third party that shouldnt have 
been requesting this action in the first place, but Monzo seems to ignore what unfolded as 
part of this scam. Mr H said the caller knew his name, address and card details. The 
fraudster was even able to trick him into thinking a transaction had been attempted from his 
account, and so told him to decline this if it wasnt him. Which Mr H says he did in his 
genuine app. Its clear Mr H believed he was speaking to a representative from his bank and 
followed instructions he believed would protect his account. So to him, this person did have 
the relevant authority to give banking instructions.
Monzo has also said Mr H should be considered grossly negligent as he hasnt taken 
responsibility for his actions and/or is lying. But I cant agree. Mr H has said he doesnt recall 
entering the required information, which considering the stressful situation he was in, isnt 
that unusual. I dont agree hes lied to our service. And Ive already set out why I dont agree 
his actions amount to gross negligence. So I still uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
I instruct Monzo to:
Pay Mr H the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand the loss value remains at £9,496.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman