DRN-4056529
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was 
impacted by Covid-19.
W has brought the complaint through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions 
as being from W.
What happened
W operated as a large public house and held a business interruption insurance policy with 
RSA. W claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19.
RSA said the policy didnt cover Ws claim. The policy covered business interruption as a 
result of an occurrence of any human infectious or contagious disease at the premises. But 
RSA thought that Ws business had been impacted by the Governments imposed 
restrictions rather than because someone at the premises had Covid-19 and turned down its 
claim.
RSA reviewed the claim again following the Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case. But RSA said the test 
case did not impact the outcome of the claim.
Unhappy with RSAs response, W brought its complaint to our service. W said its business 
had been closed by a notifiable disease and following the successful FCA test case the 
substantial claim should be paid.
Our Investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think W had shown it was more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at its 
business premises.
W did not agree with our Investigators view and asked for an Ombudsman review. In 
support of its claim, W has provided additional evidence from the pubs records. In summary, 
the evidence includes:
Statements from the bar supervisor Mr C, the bar manager Mr B and one of 
Ws owners Mrs B.
An NHS Isolation notice dated 20 March 2020 for Mr C.
Pay records from the relevant period.
Extracts from the pubs work rotas, sickness records and events calendar.
Imperial College data of Covid-19 infection rates in the vicinity of the pub.
We shared the evidence that W had gathered with RSA but it did not change its view about 
the outcome of the claim. So the complaint came to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ws business. However, I am not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why 
and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ws claim.
The relevant part of the policy is the Infectious Diseases extension, which is found in the 
policy schedule and provides business interruption insurance cover. It says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence at the Premises of:
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease an outbreak of which is required by 
law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
Covid-19 is a human contagious or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover 
for Ws claim the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result 
of a case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
It is not in dispute that W was forced to close following the Governments introduction of 
restrictions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This means that Ws claim satisfies the 
first limb of the policy wording above. But closure of the premises is not enough for a 
successful claim under the policy. W must also show that the closure of its premises was as 
a result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises.
I think that RSA fairly declined Ws claim in June 2020. W had not provided any evidence to 
show that there had been an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. I also think RSA was 
correct to say that the outcome of the claim had not been impacted by the Supreme Courts 
judgment in the FCA test case.
But during the investigation of the complaint by this Service, W has provided evidence that it 
says shows, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at its 
premises before it was required to close the pub in line with the Governments restrictions. 
We have shared Ws submissions with RSA, but it says the evidence does not change its 
decision on the outcome of the claim. Therefore, I have considered whether I can fairly 
require RSA to pay Ws claim in the light of the evidence it has provided. In doing so I have taken into account the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case.
The evidence of Mr C
W says that its bar supervisor Mr C was forced to isolate having been in contact with 
someone with Covid-19. W has provided the NHS Isolation note for Mr C together with two 
statements that he made in May 2022 and November 2022.
The NHS Isolation Note is dated 20 March 2020 with an end date of 2 April 2020, giving 
Mr Cs name and (what I assume to be) his date of birth. The note says:
The person named above has been told to stay off work by official advice, NHS 111 
or a healthcare professional. This is because: 
they live with someone who has symptoms of coronavirus.
In his first statement of May 2022 Mr C said that apart from work he did not go out and 
walked to work. He said: I received the isolation notice and duly sent it to work and I did not 
return to work after the 19th March. I became ill shortly after receiving the isolation notice. 
I did not have a test, primarily because they were then very difficult to obtain. I had a heavy 
cold, sore throat and loss of taste. I was unwell for about ten days.
In respect of Mr Cs evidence, Mr B said in his May 2022 statement that he had received 
Mr Cs Isolation note and told him not to return to work.
In his second statement of November 2022 Mr C said that:
contrary to what is stated in the isolation note, I did live alone. I lived in a (describe 
accommodation). Nobody else lived with me in March 2020.
I also confirm that I became ill shortly after receiving the isolation notice. There was 
no significant testing facilities, but the symptoms I demonstrated matched those 
symptoms that the government had identified as being significant indicators of having 
contracted covid-19.
Given that I walked to work, had no contact with others after work and lived alone, it 
is difficult to see where I contracted Covid-19 from other than working in a busy pub, 
where a number of staff had been ill and then returned to work.
In his second statement of November 2022 Mr B refers to the spreadsheets showing the 
weekly salaries paid to Ws staff which show that Mr C was working at the pub in February 
and March 2020.
Ive looked at the latest available March 2020 payroll spreadsheet and I can see Mr Cs 
name is shown in the records. The contemporaneous sickness records dont seem to show 
Mr Cs absence due to sickness for 20 March 2020. But the payroll spreadsheet shows 
Mr Cs hours including the week ending 22 March 2020. He is shown as working on 
19 March 2020 but not 20 March 2020.
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter in hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time.Here, we have Mr Cs Isolation note which is contemporaneous evidence being dated 
20 March 2020. But the Isolation note says only that Mr C lived with someone who had 
symptoms of Covid-19. It does not indicate that Mr C had symptoms of Covid-19.
Mr C has not explained how he obtained the Isolation note given he says that he did not, in 
fact, live with anyone at the time. He says that the Isolation note is inaccurate in that respect.
I have taken into account the Isolation note but I must also bear in mind the fact that many of 
those advised to self-isolate by NHS 111 did not in fact have Covid-19. NHS 111 took a 
cautionary approach, and provided this advice to anyone who contacted it with symptoms 
that might possibly be those of Covid-19. In many cases, this advice was unnecessary, as 
the individuals did not have this disease and, presumably, either did not have the illness at 
all or were suffering from another illness  such as flu.
Mr B says in his statement that he received Mr Cs Isolation note and told Mr C to stay at 
home. I have also taken into account Mr Cs comments to say that he lived alone and walked 
to work, so must have contracted Covid-19 at work.
As Ive said, the Isolation note of itself is not evidence that the person Mr C came into 
contact with or Mr C himself had symptoms of Covid-19. I have noted that Mr C says that he 
experienced symptoms which included loss of taste (as well as a heavy cold and sore 
throat). By May 2020 loss of taste was included in the NHSs official list of Covid-19 
symptoms so the loss of the sense of taste might have indicated that Mr C had Covid-19. But 
there is no other contemporaneous evidence to show that Mr C himself had Covid-19.
I have carefully considered all the submissions, but I do not consider the weight of evidence 
is enough for me to find, on the balance of probabilities, that it is more likely than not that 
Covid-19 occurred at the premises.
Reduction in income and sickness absence
Mrs B who is one of the pub owners has given a statement (dated February 2023). Her 
evidence, which is supported by Mr Bs evidence is that the pub experienced a considerable 
drop in takings in February and March 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019. She 
has provided spreadsheets showing the reduction in bookings for the pub based on the 
paper records which are available if required.
Both Mrs B and Mr B have described that their regular older customers were visiting the pub 
less in February and March 2020. Mr B has said that some customers reported having had 
Covid-19 when the pub reopened in June 2020.
In addition, Mrs B has summarised the significant increase in staff absence compared to the 
same period the previous year. She has provided sickness absence records showing 
sickness in 11 of the 13 weeks in 2020 before the pub closed. Mr B has said that on 
returning to work staff reported symptoms that were similar to symptoms for Covid-19.
I have considered all the evidence. Unfortunately though I do not consider there is enough to 
show the occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. At the time the Government was 
encouraging people to stay at home, even before the formal restrictions announced on 
20 March 2020. Sickness absence records are not enough evidence, of themselves, to show 
the absences were due to Covid-19. I do not consider that anecdotal evidence that some 
customers and staff might have had Covid-19 is sufficient to show that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises.
Covid-19 being widespread in the local communityI have considered Ws comments about the level of Covid-19 in the community, supported 
by the Imperial College data. W says that given the size and scale of its pub it is 
inconceivable that a case of Covid-19 did not occur at the premises.
I have taken into account the FCAs Guidance to which W has referred together with the 
data of Covid-19 in the vicinity of the pub. I dont think that the prevalence of Covid-19 in 
general is enough for me to fairly conclude that it is more likely than not there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at Ws premises.
Also, while there was limited testing at the time W hasnt provided sufficient evidence to 
support anyone at its premises had Covid-19. As I havent seen enough to persuade me 
there was more likely than not an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ws premises, I dont think the 
extension covers its claim.
I appreciate that this will come as a considerable disappointment to the directors of W, not 
least as I understand that W stopped trading following the pandemic. I understand that since 
last summer W has been trying to contact its previous customers via its Facebook site and 
more recently through the Track and Trace records it retained.
Given the time that has elapsed and the efforts W has already made I dont think I can 
reasonably allow more time for W to gather evidence. I think RSA made a reasonable 
decision to turn down the claim. RSA has considered the new evidence W has provided and 
has explained why the evidence does not change the outcome of the claim.
In the event that W does obtain evidence through the Track and Trace records to show there 
was a case of Covid-19 at the premises then it remains open to W to submit this to RSA and 
ask it to reconsider whether it has a successful claim under the policy.
RSA responded to say it had nothing further to add.
W responded in detail to say it did not agree with my provisional decision. W provided a 
second statement by Mrs B, together with contemporaneous sickness and pay records to 
which she referred in that statement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that W has gone to considerable time and effort in presenting its case. I have 
read and considered again all the evidence it has provided including Mrs Bs additional 
statement and supporting evidence.
I do not find that the additional comments and evidence persuade me to depart from the 
conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision. So I confirm them here, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and below. In explaining my reasons, I have 
focused on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
I have read Ws comments about the background to the governments decision to introduce 
the lockdown restrictions, requiring premises such as Ws to close because of the likelihood 
of Covid-19 spreading between people in close proximity of each other. W has summarised 
the Supreme Courts judgment in the FCA business interruption test case. 
It is not in dispute that W was required by the government to close its premises. I also accept 
Ws point that a single occurrence of a case of Covid-19 at Ws premises would be sufficient for the policy to respond. 
W says that it has provided ample and direct evidence: from the individuals who had, or 
observed others, with Covid-19 symptoms before W closed; from contemporaneous records 
that supports these individuals evidence; and from broader data showing it is 
overwhelmingly likely that Covid-19 did occur at Ws premises. W makes the point it would 
be extraordinary if that were not the case. 
W says that in my provisional decision I have set an inappropriately high evidential bar and 
have unjustifiably failed to give proper weight to the evidence that W has provided despite 
recognising it would be unfair to obtain evidence of a positive Covid-19 at the relevant time. 
W adds that I have suggested obtaining evidence from Track and Trace, which implies the 
existence of a positive Covid-19 test not widely available at that time.  
I have noted Ws comments but I dont agree that I have failed to give proper weight to the 
evidence in deciding a fair outcome to this complaint. I will address this in more detail below.
I did not suggest that W provide Track and Trace evidence. Rather, it was W that told this 
Service that it was attempting to obtain additional evidence from Ws customers, who had 
registered their details at the time Track and Trace was being used at its premises. I am 
sorry if this was not clear. If W is successful in contacting a customer who both had Covid-19 
and was at Ws premises in the relevant period before 20 March 2020 then W could provide 
that evidence to RSA for it to consider. 
W is not sure what additional evidence it could reasonably have provided. It says that I have 
not considered the evidence as a whole. W makes the point that I have not suggested the 
evidence is false or inaccurate, but I have not put forward any other likely explanations for 
what might be more probable other than the existence of Covid-19. And W says that my 
conclusions in respect of the evidence submitted, even taken in isolation is flawed. 
We provide an informal complaints resolution service and in my provisional decision 
I summarised the evidence under separate headings for ease of reading. For the avoidance 
of doubt, I have reviewed and considered the evidence that W has provided both individually 
and as a whole. For example, I have referred to Mr Bs evidence when assessing the 
evidence provided by Mr C, while referring also to the supporting pay and sickness records. 
It is not for me to suggest alternative possibilities for the evidence provided by W but rather 
to assess whether the weight of evidence is, on the balance of probabilities, enough for me 
to fairly require RSA to pay Ws claim.
Ive considered Ws points about Mr Cs evidence. W accepts that the NHS Isolation Note is 
not evidence that Mr C had Covid-19 but considers I have placed an unjustified emphasis on 
the discrepancy between the Note and his evidence that he lived alone. W observes that 
I have not said that his evidence is false and W restates its point that he could only have 
contracted his Covid-19 infection at Ws premises. 
I do not consider that I placed any particular emphasis on the discrepancy between the 
Isolation Note saying Mr C lived with someone with symptoms of Covid-19 and his evidence 
that he lived alone. But I must fairly take this into account and refer to it when assessing the 
evidence. The Note does not report that Mr C himself had symptoms of Covid-19. Mr Cs 
evidence is that he developed symptoms of Covid-19 but this is not supported by any 
additional contemporaneous evidence. I have taken into account the evidence given in his 
statement as well as the statements of Mr B and Mrs B. But the statements were given years 
after the events in question and this affects the overall weight I place on the evidence. There was limited testing at the time. But I remain of the view that I cannot fairly find, on 
balance, that it is more likely than not that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises.
Ws point is that Mr Cs evidence must also be considered in conjunction of the evidence 
given by Mrs B and Mr B; that is, the level of staff sickness and the evidence in their 
statements that on returning to work staff reported symptoms consistent with Covid-19, 
including the loss of sense of taste. But I havent seen any other evidence to support this 
apart from Mr C and Mr Bs testimony. There is no additional contemporaneous evidence 
describing the symptoms reported by the staff; such as, for example, text or WhatsApp 
messages from the time of their sickness. 
W says that Covid-19 was raging through the country at the time. But I have to bear in 
mind that many people with symptoms of Covid-19 at that time didnt actually have the 
disease.
The Imperial College data supports there were cases of Covid-19 in the vicinity of 
Ws premises. But - as W accepts - this data is not sufficient on its own to conclude there 
was Covid-19 at the premises. 
The prevalence of Covid-19 in general is not enough for me to fairly conclude it was more 
likely than not there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ws premises. It follows that 
I consider RSA made a fair decision in turning down Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman