DRN-3518252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about their mortgage and savings accounts with Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Intelligent Finance (IF). They say IF failed to advise them properly, and as a 
result they have an interest-only mortgage without a suitable repayment vehicle. They also 
say IF failed to open a savings account when it should have done.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with IF in 2002, on a capital and interest repayment 
basis, over a term of 21 years. In 2005, the mortgage was changed so it was paid on an 
interest-only basis. It has remained on an interest-only basis ever since.
In 2020, IF identified that it hadnt opened a savings account when Mr M had asked it to do 
so in around 2003. It opened the account with the £50 Mr and Mrs M had originally 
deposited and sent a letter of apology. It also credited £34.82 in interest to the account, 
which it said was the interest that would have accrued. 
In early 2021, Mr and Mrs M complained to IF. They were unhappy that, in 2005, it hadnt 
assessed their circumstances or how they would repay the mortgage at the end of the term, 
or discussed repayment options with them. They also complained that the savings account 
they had applied for hadnt been opened at the time. 
IF said Mr and Mrs M were too late to complain, because more than six years had passed 
since the events they were complaining about, and they should have been aware of their 
cause for complaint many years earlier. It also said it hadnt given Mr and Mrs M any advice 
about their mortgage arrangements, it had been clear about the need for a repayment 
vehicle, and it had already corrected its mistake in not opening the savings account. It 
wouldnt consent to the Financial Ombudsman considering the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M got in touch with the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator said 
they were too late to complain about the payment basis of their mortgage, and IF had done 
enough to put right their complaint about the savings account. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that and asked for a review. They said their complaint 
encompasses the mortgage as a whole and the issues are interwoven. 
I issued a decision explaining that Mr and Mrs M had left it too late to complain about the 
change to the payment basis of their mortgage, and about the savings account not having 
been opened sooner  so I cant look into their complaint about that. I said I could consider 
what IF had done to put right its failure to open the savings account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only been able to consider a small part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, as set out 
above. Having done so, theres no dispute that IF didnt open the savings account when it 
should have done. However, it has since put that right and I find nothing to suggest other 
than that in doing so it has made good any loss. It has also apologised.
In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly require IF to do any more than it has. It 
follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I make no order or 
award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman