DRN-3375087
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed to 
notify him about its decision to suspend further purchases of an Exchange Traded Fund 
(ETF) that he was invested in.
What happened
Mr B had a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with HLAM. Between January 2020 and 
March 2020 he placed multiple purchase orders via his account. In total he purchased 700 
ETFs in a business Ill refer to as G. His final order was placed on 13 March 2020. 
In June 2020 Mr B contacted HLAM with the intention to purchase a further 1,300 ETFs and 
was informed that it no longer dealt this stock. HLAM told Mr B that whilst he could sell the 
ETFs, he couldnt buy any more to hold in his account. 
Mr B complained in March 2021 and was also unhappy that HLAM had suspended its share 
certificate withdrawal service. 
HLAM apologised for failing to notify Mr B of the changes but didnt uphold his complaint. It 
explained that on 27 March 2020 it made a business decision not to offer these particular 
ETFs. HLAM said taking this business decision, was done in line with its terms and 
conditions but it acknowledged the notice it sent out to other customers wasnt sent to Mr B. 
It said Mr B could still sell the shares he had but he could no longer buy the particular ETFs 
because it would not be offered through its platform. HLAM did recognise it shouldve sent 
Mr B a notice about the change and so offered him £150 compensation. It also explained 
why the share certificate service had been suspended.
Mr B remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. He confirmed that the 
issue surrounding the share certificate service had been resolved but he still wanted us to 
look at the issue around HLAMs decision to withdraw the buying of the ETFs in G.
Our investigator looked into his concerns. He thought the offer of £150 by HLAM was fair 
and he didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said there was no warning from HLAM about this change 
and a notice of withdrawal wouldve given him a chance to buy more at a lower price than his 
existing holding. He also said the terms and conditions are misleading because the ability to 
deal the ETFs in G was inevitably retrospective.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware this decision comes at a difficult time for Mr B. Having considered everything, 
whilst I know this will be a disappointing outcome for him, Ive reached the same conclusions 
as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about whether HLAM was entitled to change its services to no longer offer 
particular purchase orders on its platform. Having reviewed the terms and conditions of 
Mr Bs account, it states in section A11: 
If we do not consider continued dealing in such investments to be appropriate for you, we 
will warn you of this. You may continue to hold such investments, and you may sell them at 
any time, but we will not make further purchases on your behalf and we will not be liable for 
you continuing to hold the investments.
I think these terms make it reasonably clear that HLAM are entitled to remove the purchase 
of certain investments where it considers appropriate. So, I do think it has acted in line with 
its terms and conditions. But I do note the terms say HLAM will warn its customers of such 
changes which, in Mr Bs case, it did not. HLAM explained its likely Mr B didnt receive 
notification of the change due to high business volumes.
HLAM has confirmed that it usually informs its customers on the day of, or, shortly after itd 
suspend purchase orders. This means any notification to Mr B wouldve been received after 
his purchase of the ETFs. Given Mr Gs last purchase order was 13 March and the decision 
was taken on 27 March, I dont think HLAM has caused Mr B any financial loss as the 
notification would not have been sent to him prior to his decision to purchase the shares. 
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to 
run its business in the way it sees fit. HLAM has said it made a business decision to remove 
such purchase orders because one of its main counterparties declined to trade these 
particular ETFs. And because of this it had fewer market makers, so less traders willing to 
buy and sell these shares  this would affect the liquidity of the shares. Therefore, HLAM 
decided to suspend all future purchase orders in these particular ETFs. 
HLAM also said, if additional counterparties took the decision to stop trading these particular 
ETFs in the future - this would leave its customers in a position where they hold particular 
shares on its platform that could be difficult to sell. 
This service does not normally interfere with a businesss legitimate commercial decision 
and given HLAMs reasons for taking this decision, I think it has provided Mr B with a 
reasonable explanation as to why it has done so. It should be borne in mind that Mr B is still 
free to sell his ETFs. So, I dont think he has lost out financially as a result of anything done 
by HLAM.
I do, however, think HLAM could have provided Mr B with notice of its decision as this 
seems to have come as a surprise to him months after the decision was taken. This 
wouldve helped Mr B understand the decision without having to find out much later than 
other customers. But overall, I think £150 is sufficient compensation for HLAMs poor 
communication and customer service so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that I require Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay 
Mr B £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman