DRN-1884690
The complaint
Miss W says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about nine loans Satsuma provided to Miss W between May 2015 and 
January 2019. Miss Ws borrowing history is set out in the table below as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidTerm of 
LoanAmountHighest 
Repayment
1 07/05/2015 21/11/2015 6 months £100 £28.33
2 25/11/2015 23/03/2016 6 months £200 £57.50
3 09/04/2016 23/01/2017 52 weeks £250 £41.47
4 26/07/2017 20/09/2017 12 months £500 £83.00
5 02/10/2017 11/07/2018 12 months £250 £41.50
6 21/08/2018 21/09/2018 12 months £750 £124.50
7 15/10/2018 23/11/2018 12 months £300 £49.80
8 23/11/2018 outstanding 12 months £700 £116.20
9 15/01/2019 outstanding 12 months £120 £136.12
Miss W complained that Satsuma did not perform adequate credit and affordability checks 
before it lent to her. Satsumas irresponsible lending meant she had to borrow further to 
make repayments and was trapped in a debt spiral - getting herself into further debt and 
suffering financial hardship as a result.
In its final response, Satsuma told Miss W that it was unable to uphold her complaint. It 
explained that it had carried out a series of checks, including a credit-file search and had 
assessed her monthly income and expenditure details. It said it only lent where it was 
satisfied that Miss W was in receipt of sufficient income to cover the loan repayments, plus 
existing commitments and still had some disposable income to cover any additional 
expenses. It says this is illustrated by the fact that Miss W had eight other applications 
declined because at the time of the application it did not think Miss W could afford the 
repayments. Based on the information it received Satsuma said it was confident it had done 
everything that could be reasonably expected to ensure it was responsible to lend and that 
the loans would be affordable for Miss W.
Our adjudicator said she couldnt say it was unfair for Satsuma to provide loans 1-4 but she 
said that loans 5 -9 shouldnt have been provided to Miss W. By loan 5 Miss Ws pattern of 
borrowing suggested shed become persistently reliant on short-term lending.
Satsuma did not respond and as the parties have not reached agreement following the 
adjudicators view the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. I agree with the adjudicator that 
loans 5 - 9 shouldnt have been given. I will explain why.
As our adjudicator explained, early on in the relationship I think Satsuma had done enough. I 
think its checks were proportionate and from the information about Miss Ws income and her 
expenditure theres nothing from the information which makes me think that Satsuma would 
have been alerted to the possibility the loans were unaffordable. So, I cant say it was unfair for Satsuma to give Miss W loans 1-4.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Miss W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
There was a gap of around six months between loans 3 and 4. But Satsuma had declined 
around 3 loan applications in this break, so I dont think this constituted a new chain of 
lending.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss W had taken out 5 loans in over 28 months and Miss W had 
been indebted to Satsuma for all that time save for a few small gaps in between. 
Miss W had by now been borrowing for over two years. So, Satsuma ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Miss W was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Ws first loan was for £100.00 and loan 5 was for £250.00. And loan six was for 
£750.00. So, it doesnt seem likely that Miss Ws need for cash was reducing which 
also points to her having a longer-term need for funds. So, at this point Satsuma 
ought to have known that Miss W was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma. Loan 9 
was taken out almost four years after Miss Ws first. And it was for more than Miss 
Ws first loan. Miss W still had loan 8 outstanding when she took out loan 9 which 
was nearly seven times Miss Ws first loan. Miss W had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Miss W lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 onwards and Satsuma should put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs to do
Satsuma shouldnt have given Miss W loan 5 -9. 
I understand that loan 8 and 9 are outstanding. If that is the case and Satsuma has sold this 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back and then take the following steps. If it is unable to buy 
back this debt, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results set out below: a) Satsuma must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 5-9 and 
treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on loan 5-9. If this results in Miss W having made overpayments, Satsuma 
should refund those overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund 
the amounts set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) and then move to step (e);
b) If however, after carrying out the above, there is still an outstanding balance, Satsuma 
must agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W It must not pursue an outstanding 
balance of principal it has already written off.
 
c) The overall pattern of borrowing for loan 5 onwards means that any information recorded 
about them is adverse. Satsuma must remove these loans entirely from Miss Ws credit 
file. It does not have to remove loan 8 and 9 until they have been repaid, but it must still 
remove any adverse information recorded about them. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ws complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Miss W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman