DRN-1819203
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) completed a 
money transfer using the wrong currency  and she lost money as a result.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs M visited a Halifax branch and arranged to transfer £30,333 to her 
sterling account in Jamaica. She says she told staff at the branch that shed carried out a 
similar transaction in the past and expected this one to be carried out in a similar way.
When Mrs M checked her account after arriving in Jamaica, she found that only 
£27,980.10 had reached her account. After contacting Halifax, Mrs M found out that the 
transfer was carried out in US dollars (USD), so when the funds exchanged back, she 
ended up with less overall. Mrs M complained about this and another transfer of £800  the 
issue with the smaller transfer has since been resolved.
Halifax says it checked with Mrs M whether she was happy for the transaction to be 
carried out in USD. It says a payment slip was printed with the details and Mrs M wouldve 
checked this before approving the transfer. Halifax offered Mrs M £250 for poor complaint 
handling - Mrs M is yet to accept this.
Mrs M disputes the banks version of events. She says she wouldnt have agreed for 
the transaction to be carried out in USD as her account in Jamaica is a sterling account. Mrs 
M says there was no discussion about sending the money in a different currency, nor was 
there discussion about the exchange rate or anything else that was relevant. Mrs M asked 
this service to step in and review whats happened.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and concluded thered be no reason why Mrs M 
would want her funds to be transferred in USD, given her account in Jamaica is a sterling 
account.
The investigator had seen enough to agree that Mrs M had carried out a similar 
transaction in the past and found it more than likely that she wouldve wanted the same on 
this occasion  or she wouldve said otherwise.
Halifax disagreed and pointed to the £800 transaction that was sent in USD. It says that 
all international payments default to the local currency and reiterates that, as part of its 
process, there wouldve been a discussion between the branch staff and Mrs M about the 
currency and exchange rate. 
The bank says that if Mrs M raised the issue quickly enough, then there was a small window 
of opportunity to stop the transfer  but this wasnt guaranteed. Halifax also pointed to the 
payment slip and said Mrs M wouldve seen the details of the transfer and the currency 
applied on there. 
 
As the bank didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to review.My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision explaining what I think Halifax did wrong and what I think it 
should do to put things right:
Both parties seem to disagree on what exactly happened when the transaction was 
carried out. Because of the differing accounts, Im unable to safely conclude whats most 
likely to have happened at the time.
Halifax says there was a conversation with Mrs M at the time and this involved checking 
the currency. The bank says that Mrs M agreed to the transfer being carried out in USD and 
that a payment slip was printed and signed as confirmation. The bank stands by its 
submission that it followed its process correctly.
Mrs M says she told the branch staff that shed carried out a similar transfer before 
and wanted this one completed in the same way. I can see there was indeed a transfer 
of £144,000 made around a year earlier, which I presume is the transaction Mrs M refers to -
 and it seems to have been completed in sterling. But there was also another transfer 
since, which was carried out in USD. I cant say for certain whether Mrs M specifically 
pointed out the sterling transaction when she spoke to the branch staff, so I cant be sure 
that Halifax wouldve clearly understood what Mrs M wanted to do. Mrs M also denies there 
was a conversation about the currency or exchange rate.
I recently asked Halifax for more information. It now says that there isnt a signed 
payment slip and that the transaction was verified using chip and pin as per the banks 
normal process. This differs to what Halifax says happened as part of its initial submissions 
and this delivers further doubt in establishing what actually happened at the time. 
In my opinion, both Halifax and Mrs M each had their own responsibilities at the time. Mrs 
Ms role was to explain specifically and clearly exactly what she wanted to do. She says she 
made reference to an earlier transaction. But its apparent that her last transfer before this 
was completed in USD. So this reference alone is unlikely to have been enough to make it 
clear to Halifax what she wanted to do. In my view, Mrs Ms instruction at the time seems to 
have been - at best - ambiguous. So I cant fairly say that Halifax should take 
full responsibility for the error.
Nevertheless, the onus remained on Halifax to have taken steps to make sure that it 
cleared up any ambiguity and clarified Mrs Ms intentions. This wouldve remedied the 
mistake before the transaction was completed. Halifax says there wouldve been a 
discussion about the currency and exchange rate. But I cant be certain this happened. If the 
bank did raise these points, then I dont see why Mrs M wouldnt have offered clarification or 
put right her original possible vagueness.
Moreover, Halifaxs recent submission suggests a different version of events and this 
makes me think that its more likely that Halifax didnt ask the questions it shouldve done at 
the time. Mrs M was also transferring a significant sum, so Halifax shouldve taken 
appropriate measures to ensure this was done correctly. So I think Halifax shouldve done 
more on this occasion, in order to avoid completing the transfer in a way that wasnt intended 
by Mrs M.
In summary, I cant say for certain that Mrs M was clear in the instruction she 
provided Halifax at the time. But Halifax shouldve done more to clarify what Mrs Ms 
intentions were  especially given the sum she was transferring. It seems fair to me that both 
parties share accountability for this error  but as the bank, Halifax had the onus here and its 
failing was the main reason why the transfer was completed incorrectly.Response to my provisional decision
Halifax didnt provide any further comments. Mrs M replied claiming that the bank had lied in 
its submissions to this service as she doesnt recall being provided with a payment slip. She 
also says she recalls making it clear to branch staff about the account she wishes to make a 
transfer to and that she'd transferred funds to this account before  so Halifax shouldve 
known to complete the transfer in sterling.
Mrs M may have indeed made it clear about the account she wishes to transfer funds in to. I 
dont doubt this because if she hadnt, then the transfer wouldve been unsuccessful. And in 
its most recent submission, Halifax said the transaction was carried out using chip and pin  
which tallies up with Mrs Ms comments about not receiving a payment slip.
But my findings remain the same  I dont think Mrs M was clear enough about what she 
wanted to do. Mrs M says she made reference to an earlier transaction to this account and 
thats how Halifax found the account details. But this, in my opinion, doesnt make it clear to 
Halifax that the transfer should  specifically be carried out in sterling. 
If Mrs M had been clearer, its likely Halifax wouldve known that she wanted to complete the 
transfer in sterling  not USD. The bank says that the transaction wouldve been in USD as 
the default option.  So unless either Mrs M or Halifax prompted a conversation about the 
currency, its unlikely that Halifax wouldve known Mrs M in fact wanted the transfer to be 
completed in sterling. 
And as I concluded in my provisional decision, Halifax had the onus to do more to make sure 
that it completed the transfer exactly as intended. 
Mrs M also commented that she thinks its unfair that I havent considered compensation for 
the trouble and upset Halifax caused her. I set out the level of compensation Id considered 
to be fair in my provisional decision  which was inclusive of the £250 Halifax already offered 
to pay her - Ill explain this again in this decision. 
Putting this right
Because of what happened, Mrs M suffered a loss of £2,352.90. As I explained, 
Halifaxs failing was the main reason for this loss  but Mrs M had to also make sure she 
was fully clear in her instruction. Theres an element of responsibility on both sides, though I 
consider that as the expert in such matters, Halifax has the greater responsibility. So Im 
instructing Halifax to pay a significant proportion of this loss to Mrs M.
Mrs M told us this whole event was stressful and she had to make several long-
distance phone calls about the problem. So I think its fair that Halifax compensates her for 
this. I can see that the bank has already offered to pay Mrs M £250  but I feel this is a little 
below what would fairly reflect the impact events had on her.
So taking everything in to account, I think the most appropriate way to resolve matters 
would be for Halifax to pay Mrs M the equivalent of the exchange rate loss  £2,352.90  
to address its share of the loss and the level of distress and difficulty caused to Mrs M. 
This payment would be inclusive of the £250 the bank has already offered.
My final decision 
I'm upholding this complaint. To put things right, Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs M 
£2,352.90.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman