DRN-3919013
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mr F of Joseph Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros LDA (Joseph Oliver), 
gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his Clerical Medical personal pension to a Westerby 
Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest these pension funds in unregulated 
investments. 
Those investments have failed and Mr B has suffered a substantial loss to his pension. Mr B 
believes Joseph Oliver should be held responsible for paying him compensation.
What happened
Mr B was a member of a Clerical Medical personal pension with a fund value of around 
£100,000. He says that he was advised by Mr F to transfer this pension to a Westerby SIPP 
in September 2012 in order to invest in two unregulated investments  Swiss Asset Micro 
Asset Income Fund (SAMAIF) and in the Kijani Commodity Fund (Kijani) via the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform.  The SIPP application was dated 21 September 2012 and the funds from 
Clerical Medical were transferred in November 2012. Both investments in the SIPP have 
failed.
Mr F appears to have been connected to two regulated firms over the period 2012-2013. 
One of the firms was Joseph Oliver. Joseph Oliver, is a firm based in Portugal. At the time of 
the advice, Joseph Oliver passported into the UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive. 
This means that Joseph Oliver was an EEA authorised firm permitted to carry out some 
regulated activities in the UK relating to insurance.
The other firm that Mr F was connected to was Abana Unipessaol LDA (Abana). Abana was 
also an EEA authorised firm with passported permissions in the UK. 
Mr B first complained to Abana about the advice hed received from Mr F in 2012. In this 
respect, its worth noting that M F did give Mr B advice in 2014 about another pension 
investment in the same unregulated funds. And that advice was given by Mr F whilst 
representing Abana. Mr Bs complaint about the 2014 investment has been dealt with 
separately by our service and does not form the subject of this complaint. But it is relevant 
background information.
It appears that when Mr B complained to Abana about the advice hed received from Mr F in 
2012, he was told by Abana that Joseph Oliver was responsible and that he should redirect 
his complaint to Joseph Oliver. 
When Mr B complained to Joseph Oliver, it said it wasnt responsible for the complaint and 
that it had no record of Mr B ever having been one of its clients. It said that it was probable 
that Mr B was actually a client of Abana. It also said it was likely that Mr Bs Westerby 
application had been allocated to Joseph Oliver in error  something that had been corrected 
by a novation agreement signed in 2013 which meant that Abana was responsible for all 
liabilities arising acts undertaken by Mr F.
When the complaint was referred to our service, our investigator looked at all the evidence 
and concluded that Joseph Oliver was responsible for the complaint. He said:
The evidence showed that Mr F had given advice and made arrangements for the 
Westerby SIPP and investments.
Mr F had done this whilst acting for Joseph Oliver.
There was evidence that Mr F was acting with the actual authority of Joseph Oliver 
when advising and arranging the pension and investments for Mr B. On that basis 
Joseph Oliver was responsible for the complaint.
Joseph Oliver was also vicariously liable for the acts of Mr F.
Given that he felt that Joseph Oliver was responsible for the complaint, he went on to 
consider the merits. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable to say that the 
advice from Mr F was unsuitable and that Joseph Oliver should therefore pay Mr B 
compensation.
After receiving further jurisdiction submissions from Joseph Oliver about our time limits, the 
investigator also concluded that Mr Bs complaint had been brought in time.
Joseph Oliver disagreed with our investigators view. It continues to dispute that it is 
responsible for whats happened and says that Abana is the correct respondent to the 
complaint. It also says that the investigator has misunderstood the time limit rules. Its latest 
response can be summarised as follows:
The complaint is time barred as it was referred to our service more than six months 
after Joseph Oliver issued its final response.
The novation agreement between Abana and Westerby shows that Abana assumed 
all liability for Mr Fs business. 
Mr B has consistently said from the outset that he believed that Mr F of Abana had 
given the advice. A compliance investigation by Abana concluded that it took on 
responsibility for the acts of Mr F in giving pension advice. Abana also held all Mr Fs 
records which also indicated that Mr F was working for Abana and not Joseph Oliver 
at the time.
Mr F was only an introducer to Joseph Oliver between May 2012 and October 
2012. And in October 2012 everyone (including Abanas director) was told that 
Joseph Oliver would be wound up. Contrary to the investigators findings, it was not 
purporting to embark on new business in October 2012.
The correspondence from Joseph Oliver with Westerby and the intermediary terms 
of business agreement that the investigator had relied on were not signed by a 
managing director of Joseph Oliver. They were created by a Mr G - someone who 
had no authority to bind Joseph Oliver.
Joseph Oliver had no relationship with Westerby and received no commission. 
Westerby hadnt checked that Mr F was authorised by Joseph Oliver to give pension 
advice or otherwise act on its behalf.
Joseph Oliver had no agency agreement with e-Portfolio Solutions.
The application forms for the SIPP and investment do not have Joseph Olivers full 
details and instead carried payment details for Mr F directly.
The investigator had concluded that Mr F was not an appointed representative of 
Joseph Oliver because of the nature of the contract between the parties. But the 
investigator went on to conclude that Mr F was an agent. Those two findings were 
not consistent. Joseph Oliver said the Mr F was neither an appointed representative 
nor agent.
Mr F had not acted honestly or in Joseph Olivers best interests  this negated any 
possible finding of actual authority.
My findings on jurisdictionWas the complaint made too late?
Our ability to consider complaints is set out in Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook of Rules and Guidance. 
DISP 2.8.2R says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response or redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or      
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received; 
unless: 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas as 
a result of exceptional circumstances.
Joseph Oliver says that Mr B referred his complaint to us too late based on 2.8.2R (1). It 
says it wrote to Mr B on 13 September 2016 explaining why it was not responsible for the 
advice Mr B had received  i.e. after its final response. And Mr B referred his complaint to us 
on 15 May 2017, which was more than six months after Joseph Olivers letter of 13 
September 2016. 
However, I dont agree that the complaint was made more than six months after a final 
response. Thats because the letter issued to Mr B on 13 September 2016 did not meet the 
requirements under DISP. DISP 1.6.2R defines a final response as follows: 
DISP 1.6.2R defines a final response as follows:
(1) a 'final response', being a written response from the respondent which:
(a) accepts the complaint and, where appropriate, offers redress or remedial 
action: or
(b) offers redress or remedial action without accepting the complaint: or
(c) rejects the complaint and gives reasons for 
doing so: and which:
(d) encloses a copy of the Financial Ombudsman Service's standard 
explanatory leaflet:
(da) provides the website address of the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(e) informs the complainant that if he remains dissatisfied with the respondent's 
response, he may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service: and
(f) indicates whether or not the respondent consents to waive the relevant time 
limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP2.8.7 R (Was the complaint referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in time?) by including the appropriate wording 
set out in DISP 1 Annex 3R....Its not clear that Joseph Oliver included the leaflet required under paragraph (d) above 
when it issued the letter dated 13 September 2016. But even if it did, Joseph Oliver 
certainly did not include the information required at paragraphs (da), (e) and (f). These 
are all specific requirements in the rules, separate from the requirement to provide our 
leaflet which Joseph Oliver says it provided. As such, the final response to Mr B did not 
start the six month time limit. Therefore, my decision is that Mr B did not refer his 
complaint to us too late under that provision.
Is Joseph Oliver responsible for the complaint?
The relevant DISP rules when considering this question are as follows:
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that: 
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
And section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Taking this all into account, to decide whether Joseph Oliver is responsible here, there are 
three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr B has complained about? 
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities? 
Did Joseph Oliver accept responsibility for those acts?
Looking at each in turn:
What are the specific acts Mrs B has complained about? 
Mr B has complained about the advice that he received to switch his Clerical Medical 
personal pension to a Westerby SIPP and invest his pension fund in unregulated 
investments, which have not performed as expected and resulted in a loss.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
The rules and guidance Ive set out above mean we need to establish whether the complaint 
relates to an act or omission which occurred when Mr F was carrying on a regulated activity 
or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity.
I have considered whether Mr F carried out the regulated activity of giving advice or 
arranging deals in investments. And I conclude that he more than likely did for essentially the 
same reasons as our investigator, namely:
The SIPP application to Westerby notes Mr F as Mr Bs adviser and sets out that 
remuneration for this should be paid to Mr F.
The ePortfolio application also lists Mr F of Joseph Oliver as Mr Bs adviser.
Mr B has consistently told us that Mr F provided advice. That is reflected in the 
application documents and I think its unlikely that Mr B would have undertaken the pension switch and investments without this course of action being recommended to 
him.
So, my conclusion is that Mr F advised Mr B to switch his pension to the SIPP and make the 
unregulated investments. He likely made arrangements for this to happen too.  Giving advice 
and making arrangements for the pension and investments are regulated activities. I am 
therefore satisfied that regulated activities took place.
Did Joseph Oliver accept responsibility for those acts?
In answering this, I must first establish that Mr F was an appointed representative or agent of 
Joseph Oliver at the time of the advice in 2012 and conducted the regulated activities in this 
capacity. After all, Joseph Oliver can only be responsible for acts that its appointed 
representatives or agents undertook. And this is particularly relevant given that Joseph 
Oliver says that Mr F was working for Abana and not Joseph Oliver at the time.
Mr F isnt noted on the FCA register as having been an appointed representative of Joseph 
Oliver at any point. But Im satisfied that Mr F was working as an appointed representative or 
agent (Ill come back to this term later) of Joseph Oliver at the time in September 2012 
because:
The ePortfolio application document mentions Joseph Oliver  Abana is not 
mentioned at all in any of the application documents. I cant see why Mr F would use 
Joseph Olivers details on the ePortfolio application documents if he had no 
connection with that firm at the time. He could have chosen to simply use Abanas 
details if he worked for or was submitting business for Abana at the time but he did 
not.
Whilst Mr B did initially make his complaint to Abana, I think thats likely the result of 
some confusion on his part given that he later received further advice from Mr F 
whilst he definitely was working for Abana. 
Joseph Oliver entered into an agreement with Mr F on 1 July 2012. Mr F is named as 
the appointed representative and the agreement states that:
The Company wishes to appoint Mr F to introduce the Company to new prospective 
clients for the express purpose of forming an ongoing business relationship.
The version of the agreement we have is unsigned  but Im satisfied that it likely 
represents the agreement between the parties. After all, Joseph Oliver doesnt 
dispute that Mr F had some connection to it (it says he was an introducer) and I 
expect that this agreement formed some part of the written record of the relationship. 
A recent court case between a director of Joseph Oliver and former director and 
business partner  Mr G - strongly indicates that Mr F was linked to Joseph Oliver as 
an adviser and then moved to Abana in 2013.
There was clearly an attempt to novate some business that Mr F had undertaken 
whilst working for Joseph Oliver to Abana.  But the evidence suggests that this was 
as a result of Mr F moving to Abana at some point in 2013  probably around May 
2013. I say this because a letter from Joseph Oliver to Westerby dated 17 May 2013 
says that Mr F had given notice to terminate his agreement. This was after the acts 
being complained about here in 2012. And this echoes what was said in the court 
case mentioned above which indicates Mr F moved from Joseph Oliver to Abana. 
Westerby has confirmed that it proceeded with the application on the basis that Mr F 
was working for Joseph Oliver  not Abana. It may not have conducted checks on 
this  but I cant see why it would have recorded this business against Joseph Oliver 
if it wasnt told to do this by either Mr F or Joseph Oliver.So, having established Mr Fs connection with Joseph Oliver in respect of the acts being 
complained about and that he submitted Mr Bs business in that capacity can it be said that 
Joseph Oliver accepted responsibility for the advice and arrangements undertaken by Mr F?
As mentioned above, there is a contract between Joseph Oliver and Mr F, but it doesnt 
clearly set out in writing the business for which Joseph Oliver accepted responsibility. This is 
a specific requirement under section 39 FSMA. And (although I make no finding on this 
matter), I dont think its clear that a principal like Joseph Oliver that has limited insurance 
permissions in the UK can accept responsibility for pension and investment 
advice/arrangements under section 39 FSMA when it itself is not authorised by the regulator 
to undertake such acts.  So, I dont think, as a matter of contractual interpretation and law, I 
can conclude that Joseph Oliver accepted responsibility for Mr Fs acts under section 39 
FSMA. 
However, that is not the end of the matter. Like our investigator, I conclude that Joseph 
Oliver accepted responsibility for Mr Fs acts under the common law agency principle of 
actual authority. Agency is where one party (the principal  here Joseph Oliver) allows 
another party (the agent  here Mr F) to act on its behalf in such a way that affects its legal 
relationship with third parties. An agent may have actual authority, where the principal has 
expressly or impliedly given its assent to the agent that it may act on its behalf.
I think Joseph Oliver can be said to have impliedly given its actual authority to Mr F to give 
advice about Mr Bs pension switch to Westerby and investments. I say this because on 21 
September 2012, a director of Joseph Oliver signed an intermediaries terms of business 
agreement with Westerby. This agreement was for Joseph Oliver to be able to submit 
business to Westerby on behalf of clients.
Under the heading Authorisation, the agreement states:
The Intermediary [Joseph Oliver] warrant that he/she is suitably authorised by the 
Financial Service Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on 
underlying investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, 
permissions, authorities, licenses and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities 
under this contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws.
The agreement does not specifically mention Mr F, but I would not expect it to mention 
specific agents. However, it does confirm that Joseph Oliver was seeking to provide 
business to Westerby. And I think this evidences that Joseph Oliver envisaged that it would 
provide advice in relation to the SIPP and underlying investments when submitting that 
business. Joseph Oliver appears to have done this despite its FCA permissions being limited 
to insurance activities - perhaps because it misunderstood the nature of its permissions.
I think its unlikely to be a coincidence that within seven days of the date of the terms of 
business, Mr F submitted Mr Bs SIPP application to Westerby. It appears that Mr F had 
gone on to do precisely what the terms of the agreement with Westerby envisaged. I think 
Joseph Oliver likely informed Mr F of the intermediary agreement having been made. By 
giving that information to Mr F, even if Joseph Oliver didnt expressly confirm that it 
authorised Mr F to submit business to Westerby, I think it impliedly gave Mr F authority to, at 
least, arrange deals in investments. 
It is also important to remember that, although it isnt sufficient to hold Joseph Oliver 
responsible under section 39 FSMA, there was a written agreement in place with Mr F. It 
doesnt state what Joseph Oliver authorised Mr F to do specifically, but it shows that Joseph 
Oliver did provide Mr F with some degree of authority. And, given the terms of business with 
Westerby, I think the authority it gave was in relation to pension and investment advice and 
arrangements.I note that Joseph Oliver says that it didnt have terms of business to introduce business with 
ePortfolio Solutions. However, I dont think that undermines or detracts from anything Ive 
said above.  
I also note that Joseph Oliver says that the intermediary agreement and other 
correspondence with Westerby that is noted in this decision was entered into by someone - 
Mr G - who had no authority to bind Joseph Oliver and who was in fact the managing 
director of Abana at the time. It says that Joseph Oliver intended to be wound down in 
October 2012 and this shows that it wouldnt have entered into a new business relationship 
with Westerby in 2012 at all. It says its therefore not right to rely on these documents.
I dont find this argument persuasive. First, I think that, whatever the intention later in 
October 2012 regarding winding down, it doesnt follow that it would not have entered into 
terms of business with Westerby earlier in September 2012.
Secondly, Ive looked at Companies House records for Joseph Olivers UK based company 
 Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited (JOML). Its clear that Mr G was a director of JOML until 
July 2013. I think its therefore reasonable to assume that he was still a director or held an 
equivalent position of authority with Joseph Oliver at the time of the events were looking at 
too  even if he was also a director of Abana. The two things are not mutually exclusive.
I also cant see any reason why Mr G would enter intermediary terms of business with 
Westerby on behalf of Joseph Oliver if in fact he had no connection with that company at the 
time  why not just enter it on behalf of Abana?
Joseph Oliver says the intermediary terms of business are not valid because the document 
was not signed by two of its directors and has pointed to internal board memoranda that sets 
out this requirement. But I dont accept that any internal requirements as between Joseph 
Olivers directors affects the legal validity of agreements that one director enters into on 
behalf of that company. Such an agreement is binding on that company even if the company 
doesnt now see such an agreement as being something that it should have agreed to. 
I have also considered Joseph Olivers argument that actual authority here should be 
negated because, it argues, Mr F acted dishonestly and against Joseph Olivers best 
interests. I accept that there are limitations to common law actual authority. But nothing Ive 
seen suggests that Mr F has acted against the interests of Joseph Oliver or dishonestly. As 
mentioned above, I think Mr F likely did what was envisaged by Joseph Oliver when it 
entered the intermediary terms of agreement with Westerby. Mr F may have received the 
commission directly from Westerby  but that doesnt mean he has acted dishonestly. So Im 
satisfied that actual authority isnt negated.
So, my conclusion is that Joseph Oliver did accept responsibility for the acts being 
complained about by way of actual authority. As such, we have jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint against Joseph Oliver. Given this finding, I havent gone on to consider whether 
Joseph Oliver might also be said to have accepted responsibility under the common law 
principle of vicarious liability. 
Ive noted that Joseph Oliver has said that Abana agreed to accept any and all liabilities 
arising from work undertaken by Mr F. The terms of the novation have not been provided  
Im not sure who is alleged to have been the parties to such an agreement. But, in any 
event, I consider such an agreement to be a matter between Joseph Oliver and Abana and it 
does not impact on our jurisdiction.  
As we have jurisdiction to consider the complaint, Ive gone on to consider the merits below.
What Ive decided  and why - merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither Mr F nor Joseph Oliver itself was authorised to give pension and investment advice 
or make arrangements. So the starting point was that Mr F should not have given the advice 
to Mr B and Joseph Oliver should not have allowed him to do so. And had the advice not 
been given and arrangements made, then clearly Mr B would not have switched his pension 
and suffered the loss.
But, over and above this, the advice was inadequate and unsuitable  and I note that Joseph 
Oliver has not sought to argue otherwise. Ive not seen a fact-find covering Mr Bs 
circumstances, nor a record of his objectives for his pension arrangements. I havent seen a 
recommendations report. And I havent seen a comparison of the performance, costs and 
benefits of his existing pension with Clerical Medical. I think its likely that none of this was 
carried out by Mr F.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr B was a sophisticated or experienced investor who had the 
knowledge and capacity to make high risk unregulated investments with a significant portion 
of his pension provision. 
So, overall, the advice was unsuitable and Mr F should not have been told to switch his 
pension to the SIPP and make the investments in SAMAIF and the Kijani fund.
Ive set out above why I do not think that any novation agreement between Joseph Oliver 
and Abana affects Joseph Olivers liability in this matter. I am also aware that we have 
issued a decision in Mr Bs separate complaint about Westerbys role in these investments. 
Although another ombudsman upheld that complaint a few months ago, Mr B did not accept 
the decision within the requisite timescales. As such, the decision wasnt binding on 
Westerby and Mr B has not been compensated for his losses. Furthermore, Joseph Olivers 
role (and failures) in this matter was separate and distinct from Westebys as the SIPP 
operator. 
So, taking this all into account, Im satisfied that my finding here does not contradict with 
anything set out in the Westerby decision and that its fair to hold Joseph Oliver responsible 
for all of Mr Fs losses arising from the pension switch and investments.
Putting things right 
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have remained with his previous provider. I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable in this situation.
To compensate Mr B fairly, Joseph Oliver must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Joseph Oliver should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Joseph Oliver should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Joseph Oliver is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr B £500 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice that he 
received. Hes lost a significant amount of his pension provision and this would have 
cause him a lot of worry.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Joseph Oliver deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Joseph Oliver should give Mr 
B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Westerby 
SIPPStill exists 
but holds 
illiquid assets Notional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Joseph Oliver should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Joseph Oliver pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Joseph Oliver is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Joseph Oliver may require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay Joseph Oliver any amount he may receive from the illiquid 
assets in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Joseph Oliver will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Joseph Oliver should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any contributions or withdrawals Mr B has made will need to be taken into account 
whether the notional value is established by the ceding provider or calculated as set out 
below.
Any additional sums Mr B paid into the SIPP from outset through until the end date should 
be added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when they were actually 
paid in.
Any withdrawals from the SIPP from outset through until the end date should be deducted 
from the notional value calculation at the point they were actually paid, so that they cease 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. To be clear this doesnt include 
SIPP charges or fees.
If theres a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Joseph Oliver totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Joseph Oliver will need 
to determine a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional
value in the calculation of compensation.
The Westerby SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Westerby SIPP 
to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Joseph Oliver taking over the 
illiquid assets, or this is something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Joseph 
Oliver is unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its 
fair that it pays Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Westerby SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider themeasure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros LDA 
should pay Mr B the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 
plus interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros LDA pays Mr B the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Joseph Oliver - Mediacao 
de Seguros LDA doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros LDA should provide details of its calculation to Mr B 
in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman