DRN-2188242
The complaint
Mr T complains that Black Horse Limited wrongly charged him excess mileage when he 
returned a car hed taken on hire purchase.  
What happened
In February 2018 Mr T took a car from Black Horse under a two-year hire purchase 
agreement. At the end of the two-year period he could return the car or make a lump sum 
payment and purchase it outright.
Clause 6 of the hire purchase agreement set out what would happen if Mr T chose to return 
the car at the end of the two-year period (the Goods Return Option). It said:
6. Goods Return Option
This clause applies only if the GOODS RETURN OPTION section on page 1  has been 
completed and you have paid all the Repayments shown on page 1 (except the Final 
Repayment for the Goods) and all other amounts due under this Agreement.
6.1 Instead of paying the Final Repayment for the Goods you may return them to us on or 
before the date when it is due.
6.2 You will when requested by us advise us in writing of the recorded mileage of the Goods.
6.3 You must ensure that the mileage travelled by the Goods does not exceed the Permitted 
Maximum Mileage (if any) shown on page 1. If they do you will have breached this clause 
and be liable to pay us an excess mileage charge for each mile travelled by the Goods over 
the Permitted Maximum Mileage at the applicable rate shown on page 1. If you buy the 
Goods, however, this liability will cease.
   
A box on page 1 of the agreement said that the Permitted Maximum Mileage referred to in 
clause 6 was 22,050 (which included 50 miles recorded at delivery) and that the excess 
mileage rate would be 14p per mile plus VAT. 
At the end of the two-year hire period Mr T chose to exercise the goods return option. Black 
Horse said that the mileage when the car was collected was 32,419, an excess of 10,369 
over the mileage permitted in the agreement. It sent him an invoice for £1,741.99  that is, 
14p x 10,369 plus VAT at 20%. 
Mr T disputed that he had exceeded the permitted mileage set out in the hire purchase 
agreement. He says he shouldnt therefore have to pay any excess mileage. He says too 
that he was told when the car was collected that there was nothing more to pay. 
Black Horse didnt agree and said that the inspection report showed the mileage to be what 
it said it was. 
Mr T didnt accept Black Horses response and referred the matter to this service, where one 
of our investigators considered it. He concluded however that the mileage stated by Black 
Horse was correct. Mr T didnt accept his findings, however, and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There appears to be no dispute here about the terms of the agreement or that excess 
mileage at 14p a mile plus VAT is due for any mileage over 22,050 when the car was 
returned. For the avoidance of any doubt, however, that is what I believe the agreement 
provided. 
There has also been some discussion (and confusion) about what happened when the car 
was collected from Mr T. I think its likely that it was collected from his home by a collection 
agent and taken to the dealership where it was inspected (and the mileage noted) several 
days later. Im satisfied however that it was kept at the dealership and not used or driven 
between collection and inspection. Mr T says that he was told at the time of collection that 
there was nothing more to pay, but I think thats unlikely; a collection agent wouldnt have 
known the terms of the finance agreement and wouldnt have been in a position to make 
such a statement. But in any event, whether Mr T owed any money to Black Horse 
depended on the terms of the agreement between them, not what a third party might have 
said. 
The primary issue here is therefore fairly simple. Was the mileage recorded in the inspection 
report a true reflection of the actual mileage or not? In my view, it was. Mr T says he hadnt 
used the car as much as Black Horse claims, but he has nothing really to support that. Black 
Horse on the other hand has a report prepared by a professional. Whilst that report was 
prepared to a large degree to determine whether there was any damage to the car, it 
includes both a note of the mileage and photographs of the odometer reading showing the 
mileage as 32,419  as Black Horse says it was and the mileage on the basis of which Mr T 
was charged. I think its more likely than not that Mr T did exceed the permitted mileage as 
Black Horse says, and that Black Horse hasnt therefore treated him unfairly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Black Horse Limited to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
X to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman