DRN-2931408
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way that The Co-operative Bank plc dealt with her request for 
assistance in recovering money she paid to a third party, who Ill call P.
What happened
Mrs S was unhappy with the quality of a door P supplied to her. She contacted P, along with 
the door manufacturer, to tell them of her dissatisfaction. Mrs S says this wasnt successful 
and that P stopped responding to her emails. As Mrs S had paid P £865 for the door using 
her debit card, she approached Co-operative Bank to see what it could do to assist in 
recovering the money shed paid.
Co-operative Bank credited the money back to Mrs Ss account whilst it attempted to 
chargeback the payments. But P defended the chargeback claim. The matter was eventually 
decided by the Visa card scheme at arbitration stage, finding in Ps favour  primarily on the 
basis that Mrs S hadnt returned the door to P. Co-operative Bank took the money out of 
Mrs Ss account again.
Mrs S thought Co-operative Bank didnt do enough to alert her to the necessity returning the 
door to P would have on the outcome of her claim, and that the account credit gave her the 
impression her claim had substance. She referred matters to us, setting out her 
dissatisfaction with both Co-operative Bank and Visa.
Our investigator concluded Co-operative Banks actions were in line with what shed expect 
it to have done in the circumstances. She explained how the chargeback process worked, 
and that this included the initial refund pending the claim outcome. The investigator noted 
Co-operative Bank had sent Mrs S a letter telling her that it was possible the position could 
be reversed, depending on the claim outcome. And she thought Co-operative had done all it 
could to assist Mrs S in pursuing the claim as far as arbitration, which is the final stage in the 
card schemes process.
Mrs S remains unhappy with the complaint outcome. She says Co-operative Banks actions 
have been a waste of her time, and that the bank should have told her that it couldnt help 
when she told it she hadnt returned the door. She also considers it was wrong to take Ps 
response at face value, and that Co-operative Bank didnt do all she would have expected to 
handle her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im going to disappoint Mrs S again, because Im not going to 
uphold her complaint about Co-operative Bank. Let me explain why.
Mrs S has a contractual dispute with P. But that isnt what I  or Co-operative Bank  are 
here to determine. Co-operative Banks role in this matter is to see if it can assist Mrs S in 
recovering her money from P (the merchant). Its options for doing so are rather limited. The 
banks only real recourse is to attempt to chargeback Mrs Ss payments using the relevant 
card scheme rules. Co-operative Bank doesnt run the card scheme, and has no great 
influence over how the chargeback process should operate.
When a bank starts a chargeback, the outcome is by no means guaranteed. The claim may 
be successfully defended by the merchant. That doesnt mean the bank agrees with the 
merchant, or that it favours one party over another. It simply means the merchant has 
defended the claim in line with the card scheme rules. Thats what appears to have 
happened here. P responded to Co-operative Bank within the given period, saying  among 
other things  that Mrs S hadnt returned the door.
The card scheme rules dont only require that goods are returned in such a dispute. There is 
provision to say that the cardholder must have attempted to do so. Mrs Ss complaint 
correspondence with us says that Co-operative Bank made her aware of the requirement in 
an email it sent her on 12 December 2019. Mrs S says she made it very clear during this 
and subsequent conversations with the bankthat the door had been installed at my home 
address and a return of goods would create 1) a risk to the security of my home and 2) a risk 
that I would be left without a door or monetary refund
Mrs S goes on to say that she considers she attempted to return the door, given her 
dialogue with P and the manufacturer. This being the case, I can see why Co-operative Bank 
put forward the claim. 
The alternative would have been for Co-operative Bank to refuse to submit the chargeback 
claim despite what Mrs S said. That doesnt feel right; there was at least the possibility that 
the card scheme might view her actions as an attempt to return the goods. As it turned out, 
that didnt happen. But I cant rightly say the bank shouldnt have sought to support Mrs Ss 
claim in this way. To me, it seems a reasonable course of action, given the provisions in the 
card scheme rules and what Mrs S said about her discussions with P.
I dont accept that in providing an initial reimbursement, Co-operative Bank gave Mrs S a 
misleading impression of the validity of her claim. The banks letter of 18 February 2020 is 
sufficiently clear in this respect. It explains the reason for the credit and makes Mrs S aware 
of the possibility that P might dispute the claim.
I dont think its fair to say Co-operative Bank has wasted Mrs Ss time, though of course I 
recognise her frustration. Mrs S has throughout, had the option to stop the chargeback claim 
and pursue her dispute with P through alternative action. The bank has, at the expense of its 
own time (and at no little cost) attempted to assist Mrs S in recovering her payment to P. In 
some situations, the chargeback scheme affords customers a way of resolving their dispute 
with a merchant without needing to take legal action. Unfortunately, its sometimes the case 
that the underlying dispute has to be resolved by other means. I find no reason to criticise 
Co-operative Bank for doing what it did here.
I understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling. She clearly feels her underlying claim against P has 
merit, and she might be right in this respect. Her situation does highlight some of the 
shortcomings of the chargeback scheme as a way of resolving some disputes. But that isnt 
a matter within my control; I have no power to require a change to the card scheme rules or 
the way in which they should operate. The operation of a card scheme is not an activity 
covered by my jurisdiction. Nor does it provide a reason for me to say Co-operative Bank 
should have acted differently. In these individual circumstances, Im not persuaded the bank 
needs to refund Mrs S, or pay her compensation for its handling of the chargeback claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman