DRN-3787251
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy how Nationwide Building Society handled her request for help following a 
dispute regarding a holiday.
At times during this complaint Mrs I has been represented by her father. But for ease of 
reading, I will refer to Mrs I only throughout this complaint. 
What happened
Between October 2019 and February 2020 Mrs I made payments to a booking agent, who Ill 
refer to as O, for a holiday scheduled for a week, departing at the end of September, and 
returning early October 2020. She made the payments using her Nationwide debit card. 
In June 2020 O informed Mrs I that the flight times had been changed. And in July 2020 they 
informed her that the hotel originally booked had been closed due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, and they had arranged an alternative hotel for Mrs I and the travelling party. The 
flight times were changed again in August 2020 by O.
In early September 2020 Mrs I had a conversation with O. She wanted to rearrange the 
holiday for 2021 due to the government advice against non-essential travel and the 
quarantine requirements upon their return. O explained there would be a significant cost to 
change the holiday. There followed some email exchanges between Mrs I and O throughout 
September 2020. Mrs I said that she didnt feel it was safe to travel, and the holiday details 
had significantly changed. She asked O for a full refund because of this. O confirmed they 
were cancelling the holiday because Mrs I hadnt paid the full amount and didnt arrange a 
refund. Mrs I continued to try and contact O to clarify things but never received a response. 
As a result of this she contacted the relevant travel authorities, but they were unable to help.
Mrs I has told our service she contacted Nationwide in December 2020 to raise a 
chargeback claim. Nationwide never responded to Mrs I, so she went into a local branch in 
March 2021. Initially, she thought the branch staff were accepting she was entitled to a 
refund, however following a phone call from the branch to a different department in 
Nationwide Mrs I was informed that any chargeback claim was now outside of the 
chargeback scheme rules and couldnt be considered.
Unhappy with this, Mrs I complained to Nationwide. They explained that they hadnt received 
a letter in December 2020 to raise a chargeback claim on her behalf, and that the 
information that had since been provided was received outside of the chargeback time limits 
and therefore a chargeback claim couldnt be raised. 
Mrs I brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that he 
hadnt seen any confirmation that the letter to Nationwide in December 2020 had been 
posted or received, so Nationwide had acted reasonably by not raising the chargeback claim 
when it received further communication from Mrs I in March 2021. He explained that the 
chargeback scheme rules in this case were set by Visa, and that Nationwide had to adhere 
to them. He did ask Nationwide if they would consider refunding Mrs I as a gesture of 
goodwill. Nationwide didnt consider this and said they had acted in accordance with the 
relevant chargeback scheme rules.
Mrs I didnt accept our investigators opinion. She felt Nationwide had received and ignored 
her letter dated December 2020 and that was why the chargeback claim was now outside of 
the time limits. 
As Mrs I didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs I feels she has been left out of pocket through no fault of her own, what Im 
deciding on here is a complaint about Nationwide and I need to consider if they did 
something wrong. And, for the same reasons given by our investigator, I dont think they did 
by not raising a chargeback. Ill explain why.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute, known as a chargeback, with the bank which accepted the card 
payment. 
A chargeback isnt something a consumer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed debit card transaction I would 
expect the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. 
As Ive suggested above, chargebacks are not always successful. There are rules which 
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. In Mrs Is case, 
that is Visa. Chargebacks can be defended by the recipient bank if they think the rules 
havent been followed. One aspect of the rules concerns the window of time, following a card 
transaction, in which a chargeback must be attempted.
The rules which applied at the time of Mrs Is transactions said that a chargeback needed to 
be attempted within 120 days of the date the service in question was meant to have been 
provided by, so long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the debit card 
transactions. Visa issued guidance during the pandemic to say that these time limits would 
not be extended. 
In Mrs Is case, her holiday was scheduled to end in early October 2020. So, a chargeback 
would need to have been raised by some time in early February 2021. What this case hinges 
on is the letter Mrs I has provided, which she has said was posted to Nationwide in 
December 2020. She believes this letter is proof that she notified Nationwide of her intention 
to pursue a chargeback claim within the applicable time limits, but Nationwide have said they 
never received this letter.
For me to conclude Nationwide should have raised the chargeback claim at this point, Id 
need to be satisfied that the letter was sent by Mrs I and received by Nationwide, and that 
they have failed to act on it. But I dont think I can conclusively say that in this case. Mrs I 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence that the letter was posted. I appreciate she can 
confirm when the document was generated on her computer, and this would show 
December 2020, but that isnt enough to satisfy me that the letter was sent. Whilst I accept 
that sending post by recorded delivery isnt an everyday occurrence, and I can understand 
why Mrs I didnt choose this option on this occasion, for me to say Nationwide have acted unfairly I have to be certain the letter was sent and received. And there isnt anything to 
confirm that the letter was sent or that it was received by Nationwide and wasnt dealt with. 
Even if I was satisfied Mrs I had posted the letter, for a chargeback claim to be raised, the 
letter and supporting documents had to be received by Nationwide and provided to the 
recipient bank for consideration. There isnt anything from either side here to conclude the 
letter was received and wasnt dealt with or was misplaced in Nationwides offices. So, on 
balance, I cant say that Nationwide have received the letter and should have raised a 
chargeback at that point. 
Mrs I has commented that she has had previous interaction with our service on another 
case, and it was confirmed that we had assumed receipt of a letter sent by a business. Each 
case received by our service is assessed on its own merits, but there is a difference between 
what a business can provide and what Mrs I has been able to provide in this case. As our 
investigator has pointed out, a business will, generally, be able to provide details of their 
system notes that confirm the letter left their offices. Mrs I has only been able to provide 
evidence that the letter was saved to her computer. Therefore, my decision is that there isnt 
any clear evidence that the letter was sent. 
Mrs I has also said that Nationwide were still open to reviewing the possibility of a 
chargeback claim as late as June 2021, and they confirmed this in their final response letter 
to her. She has argued that Nationwide made a concrete offer to reconsider provided Mrs I 
could provide them with more recent correspondence between her and O requesting a 
refund, and that it had happened within the previous 120 days. I agree with Mrs I. 
Nationwides letter in June 2021 did discuss the possibility of a review, and Im aware that 
Mrs I responded to this letter. What I havent seen is any more recent correspondence 
between her and O. From the evidence Ive been provided with, Mrs I stopped 
communicating with O around September 2020 and took her concerns first to the travel 
authorities and then subsequently to Nationwide. I accept that Nationwide didnt respond to 
Mrs Is letter in July 2021, and she had to follow up with them a month or so later, but Im 
satisfied that, even if Nationwide had responded, they hadnt been provided with any more 
recent communication between Mrs I and O to support her request for a chargeback claim 
and wouldnt have been able to take it any further. 
Mrs I has mentioned that, had she been informed at an earlier stage by Nationwide that they 
were going to be unable to help, she had been told by some consumer organisations that 
she could have approached Visa directly and asked them to reconsider the time limits due to 
her exceptional circumstances. I havent seen anything from Mrs I and any consumer 
organisations to confirm that, but the updated guidance issued by Visa in April 2020 in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic made it clear that the time limits wouldnt be extended 
for any reason. So, Im not persuaded Mrs I would have been able to pursue that even if she 
had been made aware sooner by Nationwide that any prospective chargeback claim had 
been raised out of time. 
I know that Mrs I is frustrated by this situation. But my decision is only focussing on 
Nationwide, and whether they acted unfairly towards her. I can only make my decision on 
the evidence Ive seen and how Nationwide have dealt with Mrs Is request for a chargeback. 
And I think theyve acted fairly when I consider the chargeback scheme rules in place. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs I. But my decision is that Nationwide dont 
need to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman