DRN-3372423
The complaint
Miss P complains about the poor service she received from Sainsburys Bank Plc while 
trying to discuss her outstanding credit card balance.
What happened
Miss P contacted our service to complain about Sainsburys response to a settlement offer 
shed made to clear the outstanding balance on her credit card account.  She complained 
about the way she was treated by Sainsburys, the amount of time it took to get a response 
and Sainsburys response once it came. Miss P has also complained about whether the 
lending was unaffordable and thats been looked at separately. 
Miss P said she had to make a number of calls to Sainsburys before she was able to speak 
to someone. She felt like she was being passed from pillar to post. She said after shed 
spoken to someone at Sainsburys she was told her balance had already been passed to a 
collection agency - so shed need to speak to them. Miss P says this was even more 
upsetting. And to make matter worse, when Miss P tried to speak to the collection agency 
she was told it was up to Sainsburys to consider her settlement offer.
Miss P complained to Sainsburys who accepted that shed been waiting months for a 
response. Sainsbury agreed to get back to her on her offer and to raise a complaint. Miss P 
says the member of staff who subsequently looked into her complaint was rude and 
business-like when they spoke a few days later and that she found the situation extremely 
upsetting. 
Miss P wanted help with her debt situation, but she felt Sainsburys was discriminatory 
towards her given the upsetting service she received despite Sainsburys being aware of her 
personal circumstances. Miss P expected a fairer and more empathetic response in the 
circumstances rather than an unkind one. Miss P was unhappy with Sainsburys response 
and so complained to us.
Sainsburys has told us that it considered Miss Ps settlement offer of £400 but felt it was too 
low because of the remaining balance. But its said it also recognised Miss Ps financial 
difficulties and provided information for a number of independent parties who might be able 
to help. 
Sainsburys apologised that the service Miss P had received was below its expected level 
given the time it had taken to respond to her offer and it offered her £50 compensation. After 
reviewing the matter further Sainsburys offered Miss P another £75 for the delay in 
reviewing her offer. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He explained it was for Sainsburys to decide 
whether or not to accept Miss Ps offer. That wasnt something he could look at. But he 
listened to the calls between Miss P and Sainsburys and he felt it couldve done more to 
help her. One call had been handled sympathetically and helpfully. But the second call with 
the member of staff who looked into her complaint showed Miss P had been distressed and 
upset by what she felt was a business-like tone from Sainsburys agent. 
And as Sainsburys was aware that Miss P was vulnerable he felt the call wasnt entirely 
empathetic. So he recommended Sainsburys increase its offer of compensation to £250. 
The second call didnt come to light until late on in the investigation.
Sainsburys didnt agree with our investigator so its asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. It agreed that things couldve been handled better, and a gentler approach taken. 
But Sainsburys said Miss Ps complaint was about its decision to decline the offer not about 
how itd handled the complaint  which isnt a regulated activity. So Sainsburys didnt think it 
should pay any further compensation as the second call was a call with a complaint handler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss Ps been through and I can appreciate how 
upsetting shes found the circumstances around this complaint. I understand Sainsburys is 
aware of the issues Miss P has experienced in the past and the impact this is having on her 
mental health. So Ive looked at whats happened and listened to the calls between Miss P 
and Sainsburys to see whether its treated Miss P fairly and sympathetically. 
Miss P has been trying to reduce her debts and has agreed settlement offers with other 
companies. But Sainsburys hadnt responded to the offer she made in June and she had to 
chase for a response on a number of occasions. 
Miss P said when she spoke to one party it said she needed to speak to the other party. And 
I appreciate that wouldve added to Miss Ps stress and upset. Miss P had been waiting for 
over three months for a response to her offer by the time Sainsburys raised a complaint  
within days of doing so Sainsburys responded to Miss Ps offer. And Sainsburys, unlike 
other businesses Miss P had dealt with, rejected Miss Ps offer without giving any reasons, 
making matters worse.
In terms of the offer of settlement I understand Miss P no longer has the funds for this. So I 
dont think I need to comment on this aspect any further. But I can look at the service Miss P 
received from Sainsburys while she was trying to sort things out. 
Although the collection agency is now looking after Miss Ps debt, Sainsburys is still 
responsible for making decisions about it. And Sainsburys has acknowledged it didnt 
respond to Miss Ps offer until September. It accepts that was too long and wouldve caused 
Miss P additional upset. So its offered a total of £125 compensation for the upset and delay.
Miss P feels she was treated in a discriminatory manner by Sainsburys in that it was aware 
of her mental health situation, had got its specialist team to deal with her offer yet still treated 
her in an unkind way. In short, she expected a fairer and more empathetic response.
From what Ive seen, most of the time Sainsburys agents showed sympathy and patience 
while discussing things with Miss P. But Miss P was particularly upset to be called after 6pm 
to be told bad news about her offer. 
And its clear from listening to the call she had with the member of staff who looked into her 
complaint that Miss P found the conversation with that member of staff very upsetting. I can 
hear the distress in her voice. I dont think the member of staff meant to sound rude to 
Miss P. But Sainsburys was aware of Miss Ps circumstances and vulnerability. And at 
points during the call I think the member of staff couldve been more sympathetic and 
understanding rather than cause additional upset to a vulnerable customer. It shouldve been clear to Sainsburys that Miss P would expect help and support. So an 
unhelpful or unsympathetic response wouldve impacted poorly on Miss P for some time. 
Miss P is trying to deal with her outstanding debts. And I recognise the efforts shes making 
to move forwards. Im pleased she was able to bring this complaint to us. And Im grateful for 
the information shes provided and the additional effort this wouldve required. I understand 
Sainsburys has provided information about some third parties who may be able to help 
Miss P manage her finances. And I hope shes able to reach a suitable outcome. In the 
meantime, were looking into whether or not the lending was unaffordable as a separate 
complaint.
Putting things right
Miss P has raised a number of concerns, some of which are being looked at separately. But 
this decision is not about complaint handling. As Sainsburys has pointed out, that is not a 
regulated activity I can comment on. 
This decision is about the poor response and delay that a vulnerable customer experienced 
when she tried to discuss her debt with the bank. I can see our investigator suggested 
Sainsburys increase its offer of compensation to £250. And I think that better reflects the 
distress and upset caused to Miss P. The long delay in responding and the manner of the 
response require additional compensation above the £125 already offered.
To put things right Sainsburys should increase its compensation to Miss P to a total of £250 
for the delay and poor service she received and Sainsburys should pay this to her directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to follow the 
steps Ive outlined in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman