DRN-3281117
The complaint
Mr G complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited mishandled his loan application in respect of 
a balloon payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
MotoNovo has accepted that it failed to act on Mr Gs initial request for funding to cover his 
balloon payment and so it lapsed. That was an error. It may well have been the case that the 
first application may have succeeded, but I cannot say for certain if it would. 
However, Mr Gs credit status worsened either in part or in full due to an error made by his 
bank. This has been dealt with separately and the bank has offered Mr G compensation. 
MotoNovo conducted a credit check without Mr Gs authorisation, but I suspect it was 
seeking to push through the later application. It has apologised and arranged for this credit 
check to be removed from Mr Gs credit history. It also offered Mr G £150 compensation.
So MotoNovo made two errors, one of which potentially had an impact on his application for 
a loan to cover the balloon payment due on his car loan. Our investigator asked MotoNovo if 
it could make some kind of informal arrangement to allow Mr G finance. It said that his credit 
status was such that this was not possible and it was constrained by rules on responsible 
lending.
This service cannot require a business to make a commercial decision to lend to a consumer 
and while I can appreciate Mr G finds this frustrating it is not within my gift. However, he has 
been able to retain the car for some two years without making monthly payments of £267.30 
each. I gather he has outstanding deferred payments of some £1,000 and he will be liable 
for any drop in value of the car when auctioned. It has also offered him £150 compensation. 
As such I dont think MotoNovo need do anymore.
Given that I dont think it appropriate that I ask the business to do any more than it has done 
in terms of compensation, but I would remind MotoNovo of the requirement that it deal with 
Mr G positively and sympathetically in helping him resolve his financial difficulties and in 
settling his loan account.
My final decision
MotoNovo Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited should pay £150 if it has not already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman