DRN-3709269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about a life assurance policy sold to Mrs B by The Mortgage Finance 
Store Limited (TMFS). 
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs B arranged a loan against the value of their home. Documents from the 
time say the loan was to consolidate other borrowing of around £34,000, and to give £25,000 
to each of Mr and Mrs Bs three daughters. A total of £109,000 was borrowed. 
As part of these arrangements, TMFS spoke to Mr and Mrs B about life assurance. I 
understand Mr B couldnt get life cover because of an existing medical condition. But TMFS 
were able to find a guaranteed premium whole-of-life assurance policy for Mrs B. 
The life assurance was arranged to pay just over £88,000 if Mrs B died. This seems to 
reflect that one of the daughters had chosen not to have the £25,000 being offered by Mr 
and Mrs B. A monthly premium of £333 was initially quoted for the policy, but this rose to 
£503.88 when the policy provider looked at Mrs Bs medical history. 
The policy was placed in a trust when it began. Mr and Mrs Bs three daughters were the 
beneficiaries of that trust. All the trustees agreed to us looking at this complaint. 
The policy ran for just over a year and half, until it was cancelled by Mrs B. Their complaint  
raised by a claim management company (the CMC)  followed shortly after. The CMC said 
there were a few different reasons why TMFSs recommendations for the policy hadnt been 
relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. TMFS responded and explained why 
they felt the policy had been suitable for Mrs B. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. Our investigator explained why he felt the service 
from TMFS had been reasonable in this case. The CMC said Mr and Mrs B disagreed with 
that view. They gave some more reasons why they felt the policy hadnt been right for Mrs B.
The complaint has now come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill briefly explain why.
I agree that references in TMFSs 2019 suitability letter to inheritance tax and funeral costs 
were relevant to this life policy. But I note Mr and Mrs B say they didnt see the suitability 
letter at the time. So I dont think that was what led them to go ahead with the policy. 
It seems more likely to me that the policy was to link in with the large loan Mr and Mrs B took 
out in 2019. At first glance, the policys £88,000 sum assured seems to fall short of covering 
the whole loan. But I note it does seem to cover the amounts that had left Mr and Mrs Bs 
ownership: two gifts of £25,000 and the £34,000 being consolidated  a total of £84,000. 
I can see that having the life policy in trust meant it wouldnt automatically repay the loan. 
But my understanding is that the beneficiaries of the trust and the beneficiaries of Mr and 
Mrs Bs estates were the same people  their daughters. So I can see the life policy would 
have given Mr and Mrs Bs intended beneficiaries money to cover what had been taken out 
of the estates by the gifts and consolidation of the other borrowing. 
I agree that wouldnt have helped Mr B if Mrs B had died before him. But from what I can see 
the loan wouldnt have been repayable at that point. It was only if both Mr and Mrs B died 
that the loan had to be repaid. The life policy would have paid out by that point, so its sum 
assured would have been available for the estates beneficiaries to use. 
All of this leads me to say the policy was set up with a specific purpose in mind  to offset 
the gifts and consolidated borrowing achieved through the loan against Mr and Mrs Bs 
property. What mattered to deciding to go ahead with the policy was how much the premium 
would be to achieve the level of cover Mr and Mrs B wanted.
Those details seem to have been made clear to Mr and Mrs B. Ive seen it was part of 
TMFSs correspondence with them. And Ive seen letters from the life policy provider to Mr 
and Mrs B that explained when the premium offered rose. 
I note the CMC have said they feel the premium increase should have been communicated 
to the trustees that came to own the policy. But the trust deed Ive seen shows the policy 
was to be set up by Mrs B separately and then gifted to the trust. It was therefore for Mrs B 
to decide if she accepted the revised premium, not the trustees. 
The final part of the complaint that Ive considered are the comments about Mr and Mrs B 
being vulnerable at the time of TMFSs recommendations. I appreciate both Mr and Mrs B 
were of an age where theyd retired. But that alone isnt evidence of them being vulnerable. 
What I can see from the documents we have is that Mr and Mrs B were able to give TMFS 
details about their finances. They seem to have spoken to a lawyer too about the loan 
against their property. And their daughters would likely have had some involvement in the 
matter, to understand where the £25,000 gifts were coming from. 
All of this is consistent with Mr and Mrs B having the time, space and support to be 
comfortable with the decisions they made. TMFSs recommendations for this life policy seem 
to reasonably meet a need that arose from what Mr and Mrs B did with the money they 
borrowed against their home. It follows that I find TMFS provided a fair and reasonable 
service to Mr and Mrs B, and wont need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mrs M and 
Mrs B as trustees of the I B Trust to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman