DRN-2351166
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited 
dealt (British Gas) under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W contacted British Gas under their HomeCare policy because their central 
heating wasnt working properly. An engineer visited and told Mr W and Mrs W that their 
central heating system required a powerflush. There were then issues related to the 
powerflush and when it took place.
Mr W and Mrs W complained to British Gas. When British Gas replied, it accepted that there 
had been delays in dealing with the central heating system and offered Mr W and Mrs W £50 
compensation.
Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that he thought that British Gas had responded reasonably to the issues raised by Mr W 
and Mrs W and didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr W and Mrs W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr W and Mrs W have said that their issues with the central heating took 
several months to resolve. However, I can only look at the aspects that took place before 
British Gas final response to this complaint was issued. I also note that parts of the 
complaint relate to a powerflush. As previously explained by our investigator, that isnt a 
service provided by British Gas under the terms of its HomeCare contract. So this service is 
unable to comment on anything related to the powerflush because it doesnt come within our 
jurisdiction.
So, taking the above into account, Ive only been able to consider two of the British Gas 
visits. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr W and Mrs W first contacted British Gas about their central heating, this was under 
their HomeCare policy. British Gas sent an engineer. The engineer found a lot of sludge in 
the system and said that a powerflush was required. Mr W and Mrs W said that when the 
engineer left they didnt have any central heating. It isnt clear to me why this was the case 
and whether it was an error by the engineer or the result of the issues with the central 
heating. However, British Gas offered to pay up to £50 for electric heaters, which Mr W and 
Mrs W used to buy an additional heater to supplement the two that they already owned. I 
think that was a reasonable in the circumstances in order to deal with the immediate need 
for heating.
An engineer then visited to carry out a powerflush. Im unable to comment on this any 
further, for the reasons Ive already given.
Another engineer then visited a few days later under Mr W and Mrs Ws HomeCare policy. 
Mr W and Mrs W havent raised any concerns about the actions of the engineer and 
confirmed that the engineer was able to restore their heating system to how it had been 
operating before the first engineers visit. So, I havent seen anything that suggests that 
there was an issue with what British Gas did during this visit.
Im aware that Mr W and Mrs W have said that using electric heaters wasnt really a suitable 
way to heat their home and that, as a result, their electricity bill was much higher over the 
period it took to resolve the heating issues. Mr W and Mrs W have also said that they had no 
hot water, which, based on what Mr W and Mrs W explained, seemed to be following the 
visit to carry out the powerflush. Ive noted these points but, given that Ive already explained 
what Im able to look at as part of considering this complaint, it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to make a finding on these issues.
When British Gas responded to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint, it accepted that there were 
issues and offered Mr W and Mrs W £50 compensation. I think that was reasonable based 
on the circumstances that I have been able to consider. So, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman