DRN-3503144
The complaint
Mr B complains Metro Bank PLC unfairly arranged to transfer his mortgage to another 
lender.
What happened
Metro Bank wrote to Mr B in November 2021 to tell him it would be transferring his mortgage 
account to another lender. 
Mr B complained to Metro Bank as he said he had ongoing concerns with the other lender. 
Mr B said he was unhappy that he wasnt consulted before this decision was made.
Metro Bank reviewed Mr Bs concerns and told him it wouldnt continue with the transfer of 
the mortgage and would keep the account with itself. It apologised for any distress that had 
been caused. It also awarded Mr B £100 compensation for what it said was inappropriate 
information provided during a telephone call in relation to preferable rates with the other 
lender. 
Unhappy with Metro Banks response Mr B brough his complaint to our service for review.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Metro Bank had 
acted in line with the terms of Mr Bs mortgage when telling him about the transfer; and had 
acted reasonably when deciding to keep the mortgage based on Mr Bs concerns. She also 
said that the offer of £100 compensation for the inappropriate information provided within the 
telephone call was fair and reasonable. 
Metro didnt respond to our investigators assessment; Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he 
maintained his argument that Metro Bank ought to have consulted with him before looking to 
transfer his mortgage.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Metro Bank has said it made a commercial decision to sell part of its mortgage book in 
November 2021, which included Mr Bs mortgage. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions 
relevant to Mr Bs mortgage to see what Metro Bank was entitled to do. 
Under the section titled 24. Transfer of Mortgage it states: 
24.1 We may transfer any or all of our rights in the Mortgage to any person or persons 
whom we reasonably consider will treat you fairly and who in our view is capable of 
performing our obligations under our agreement with you to the same standard that we do. 
This includes our right to transfer any related rights or interests under the Mortgage Offer 
Letter, the Mortgage Deed or any other connected agreement with you. You will be bound to 
any person we transfer any rights to in the same way and to the same extent as you are 
bound to us. The terms of your Mortgage will remain as they were prior to any such transfer, 
and we will notify you in writing if any such transfer is to be made.
24.2 This power to transfer the Mortgage includes the power for us to offer your Mortgage 
(either alone or as part of a group of mortgages) as security for borrowing by us.
24.3 We may pass on any information or documents relating to your Mortgage to any person 
to whom we transfer or may transfer your Mortgage provided they agree to keep that 
information confidential in the same way as us.
I consider the terms set out Metro Banks ability to transfer mortgages and Im satisfied it 
reasonably applied these terms here. 
I say this because the terms provide Metro Bank the provision to transfer Mr Bs mortgage 
without his consent or prior approval to another lender. Metro Bank confirmed to Mr B within 
its letter dated 15 November 2021 of the transfer; and that his mortgage would continue to 
operate in accordance with the existing terms and conditions.
Although Metro Banks letter only provided Mr B with seven days notice of the transfer, he 
was aware of its decision to cancel the transfer of his mortgage before it took place. So, I 
consider Metro Bank acted quickly by cancelling the transfer of Mr Bs mortgage as soon as 
it reasonably became aware of his concerns. 
During one of the calls Mr B had with Metro Bank as part of this complaint process, an 
advisor discussed details of potential preferential rates with the new lender. Metro Bank has 
said its advisor provided inappropriate information when discussing this. And it has 
confirmed it paid £100 by cheque to Mr B for this inappropriate information. 
Having listened to this call I consider this level of award to be fair. I say this because the 
matter was addressed quickly within Metro Banks final response dated 24 November 2021. 
Mr B knew at the time the information was provided that his mortgage wasnt being 
transferred, in line with his wishes. And as such Mr B hasnt lost out as a consequence of the 
information provided during the call. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs strength of feeling on the matter, because of the previous experience 
hes said hes had with the other lender. But as Ive found above, Im satisfied Metro Bank 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of his mortgage when informing him it was being 
transferred. And I consider the award of £100 Metro Bank has paid to Mr B to be reasonable 
for the information provided during one of the calls. 
Therefore, I dont consider Metro Bank needs to take any further action in resolution of 
Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Metro Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman