DRN-2609649
The complaint
Mr T complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined his insurance claim for costs
incurred relating to a failed property sale, under a Home Buyers Protection Insurance policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month giving the parties until 18 February 2021 to 
make further submission and/or provide further information.
A brief synopsis of the background is that Mr T had agreed with a vendor to buy a property 
at an agreed price. Apparently on the instructions of his mortgage broker, Mr T reneged on 
his agreement to purchase the property at the previously agreed price. He tried to get the 
vendor to accept lower offers. The vendor wouldnt agree, and during the delay carried out 
work on the property and later raised the sale price slightly. Mr Ts lower offers remained 
below the originally agreed price and the sale fell through. As a result, he suffered a loss of 
fees incurred that he claimed under the policy.
I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ts complaint;
- The policy covered circumstances where the vendor withdraws the property from 
sale for reasons beyond Mr Ts control.
- Theres a specific exclusion for behaviour causing the vendor to withdraw the 
property, such as where Mr T seeks a reduction on the agreed amount price beyond 
what can be justified by the survey.
- Mr T had received his mortgage offer based on the agreed sale price for the specific 
property in question.
- I concluded that the reason the sale fell through was due to Mr Ts conduct in 
reneging on the originally agreed sale price.
- I said that in all likelihood, had Mr T not reneged on the agreed price the sale would 
have completed at the agreed price.
- I didnt find any reason from the survey carried out that would have reasonably 
prompted Mr T to make a lower offer given the surveyor said the agreed price reflects 
the current open market value. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SOL has accepted my provisional decision, but I havent seen a reply from Mr T despite my 
decision being sent to the correct corresponding email address.
Having thought about the complaint carefully Im not reaching a different outcome. I remain 
satisfied the sale fell through because of Mr Ts conduct in withdrawing from the originally 
agreed sale price without any reasonable justification from the survey findings. And the 
policy specifically excludes this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman