DRN-2266880
The complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as The Woolwich) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs R took out a PPI policy in November 2008 at the same time as she applied for a 
mortgage in one of the banks branches. It gave her protection against accident, sickness 
and unemployment. This policy was cancelled in early January 2009 as Mrs R had 
subsequently taken out a second PPI policy on the phone in December 2008 at the same 
time as she applied for a further advance. No payment was taken for the first policy. Mrs R 
paid a monthly amount for the second PPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The bank has evidenced that no premiums were paid for the first policy so there is no 
potential financial loss for me to consider in relation to this sale. This decision therefore 
focuses on the second sale. Mrs R has provided lots of information and comments 
throughout this investigation. I have considered all of her points carefully. In keeping with our 
role as an informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on those I consider to 
be material to the outcome.  
Mrs R raised that there was no reference to the second policy on the Your Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) information document that the bank provided to her. The bank 
has confirmed that there is an error in this summary of her PPI. The second policy is listed in 
the first two rows but with the wrong start date of 11 November 2018. The correct start date 
for this policy was 1 January 2009 and the bank says it has confirmed this with the policy 
underwriters. The bank apologises for the inconvenience caused by sending Mrs R the 
incorrect information.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she was unaware she had taken out PPI and Barclays has not provided 
substantial proof she accepted the second policy. I cant know what was said on the call and 
Barclays no longer has a recording or the script. So I have considered both parties 
comments and looked at the paperwork that is available. 
Barclays has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mrs R on 2 December 2008 along with 
the Statement of Demands and Needs that records what was discussed on the call; the 
Statement of Fact and Insurance Details; the Statement of Price; and a Guide to Insurance. 
The letter makes clear that Mrs R has applied for PPI after accepting the banks 
recommendation. The Statement of Fact and Insurance Details set out the cost and Mrs Rs 
bank details, explaining no further action was needed if they were correct. If Mrs R had not 
wanted PPI I would have expected her to contact the bank on receipt of this letter. 
So I think Barclays has shown it made clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs R agreed to take 
it out. I know Mrs R disagrees and argues that this documentation doesnt evidence she 
agreed to the policy. Nor did she received the full policy terms and conditions, and the copy 
of the direct debit instruction the bank sent her had not been completed. As Ive said, the 
bank doesnt have every piece of paperwork relating to her sale - but thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has explained the direct debit mandate is 
a sample to show what Mrs R would have completed as it no longer has her copy. With 
regards the full policy terms and conditions, the bank has confirmed they would have been 
sent so I cant fairly hold it liable for the non-receipt. On balance, given the available 
evidence, I remain satisfied Barclays met its obligation to present the PPI as optional, and 
Mrs R agreed to take it.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mrs R so it had to check it was suitable for her. Ive 
looked carefully at her circumstances at the time and I think it was. I say this because:
She met the policy requirements, so she was eligible for the cover.
Mrs R was entitled to between four- and six-months sick pay, but the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 24 months for each successful 
claim. It also offered up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mrs R was borrowing a 
large sum of money over a long period of time secured against her home. Given the 
serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful for Mrs R if she was sick or lost her job.
There wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mrs R to claim
as it seems she wasnt affected by the main exclusions or limitations.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable and it was a reasonable cost
for the benefit offered.
Barclays also had to give Mrs R information that was clear, fair and not misleading
so that she could make an informed choice about the policy. Its possible she didnt have
everything she needed. But for the same reasons that I found the policy was suitable, I dont
think she wouldve decided not to take out this policy if better information had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mrs R lost out because of any problems with the sale.
 
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman