DRN-3673856
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly held him liable for a number of 
transactions and for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr B originally had a personal current account with Lloyds. In June 2020, a Lloyds business 
current account was also opened with his name and address. A few days later, there was a 
successful application for a £50,000 BBL, based on the business account, and Lloyds 
transferred the loan funds to that account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
Later in June 2020, nearly all the BBL funds were transferred from the business account to 
Mr Bs personal account. Payments were then made  totalling £47,500  from the personal 
account to an account with a different financial provider which specialises in cryptocurrency 
transactions. This account (which Ill refer to as the cryptocurrency account) was set up with 
Mr Bs genuine address, phone number and email address. 
There was also one payment of £2,500 from the business account to a third party  a 
company listed as running a property business.
The funds transferred to the cryptocurrency account were used to purchase bitcoins which 
were then converted to Euros and transferred to third-party accounts. Weve been unable to 
trace the identity of the owners of these accounts.
During June 2020, several calls were made to the bank. One was a request to change the 
password on the business account, and this was done without the account card  the caller 
said the card hadnt yet arrived in the post, and the call went ahead after two security 
questions about recent personal account usage. Mr B says he didnt make that call or any of 
the others.
In July 2020, Lloyds contacted Mr B about the BBL. Mr B told the bank that he hadnt 
opened the business account or applied for the BBL. After a review, the bank made a 
decision to close Mr Bs accounts on 4 August 2020. 
In April 2021, Lloyds sent a demand letter to Mr B for repayment of the BBL. He replied that 
he didnt understand why he was being held liable for the repayment of the loan as he had 
told Lloyds he had no knowledge of it, nor had he benefited from the loan. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds. Unhappy with the banks response, he then referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unreasonably. In summary, she gave the following reasons:
The business account was opened on 4 June and the BBL was credited on 5 June. 
Mr Bs personal account was set up as a payee on the business account on 6 June. 
The card used to set this new payee up was Mr Bs personal debit card, which Mr B 
has said has always been in his possession. Lloyds has also provided evidence of 
retail transactions using the same personal account card in the same week as the 
above new payee was set up  before, on and after 6 June.
Lloyds has provided evidence that SMS text messages were sent to Mr Bs genuine 
mobile number (the number he still uses) confirming each transaction from his 
business account to his personal account. SMS text messages were also sent when 
the payments were made from his personal account to the cryptocurrency account.
The payee for the £2,500 transaction from the business account was set up online 
using the business account card, which had been sent to Mr Bs genuine address. An 
SMS message was sent to Mr Bs genuine mobile phone number confirming the 
payee.
Lloyds had provided IP addresses for genuine transactions made on Mr Bs personal 
account and for the disputed transactions. These came from very similar IP 
addresses, belonging to the O2 mobile network.
The bank has evidenced that it posted the welcome pack, card and card reader for 
the business account to Mr Bs address.
The cryptocurrency account was opened using Mr Bs driving licence.
With the above in mind, the investigator thought it was fair to say Mr B had either 
been grossly negligent with all his financial details or had knowledge of what was 
happening.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He made the following points:
Before giving the BBL, the bank should have done more to check that the business 
set up in Mr Bs name was really trading.
Lloyds produced the SMS and IP address details late in the complaint process. Mr B 
said he believes this evidence was fabricated by the bank.
The evidence from IP addresses and texts isnt good enough to prove the bank did 
everything it could to prevent fraud. The fraud could have been committed by 
someone close to Mr B, which would explain the proximity of the IP addresses. There 
were times when his personal belongings, including his phone, were left unattended 
at work.
A different fraudulent payment had been made into his personal account, 
unconnected with the main events in this complaint. Following that, the bank should 
have kept a closer eye on his accounts.
Lloyds hasnt done enough to investigate all the aspects of this case.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and 
for largely the same reasons.
The evidence from the transaction records shows that:
Mr B had his personal debit card in his possession before, during and after the day 
when the same card was used to set up his personal account as a payee on the 
business account. Mr B never reported his personal card as missing and he used it 
regularly for routine transactions throughout all the events in this complaint.
Lloyds held Mr Bs correct geographical address for the business account and the 
bank sent the card and PIN (separately) to that address. The same card was used to 
set up the property company as a payee on the business account and to make the 
£2,500 transfer to that payee. At the time, the bank sent text messages to Mr Bs 
genuine phone number.
The disputed transactions therefore involved two cards  one that Mr B had in his 
possession throughout and one that had been sent to his home address. 
Mr B says that sometimes he left his belongings unattended at work, and he denies ever 
receiving the business card by post, but I find the banks evidence compelling. A third-party 
fraudster would have had to steal Mr Bs personal card from his workplace and replace it, 
then intercept or steal the business card and PIN from Mr Bs home before hed realised they 
had been sent there, then steal and replace his phone on a number of occasions on different 
days to prevent his seeing the banks text messages about the transfers to his personal 
account, the housing company and the cryptocurrency account. Such a fraudster would also 
have needed detailed information about Mr B and his finances, including his personal PIN. 
The fraudster would also have had to rely on Mr B not spotting any of the transactions on his 
online banking statements or querying any communications that he received from the 
cryptocurrency account provider. I can understand why the bank isnt persuaded that a third 
party carried out a fraud in this way. 
Taken all together, the evidence doesnt, in my view, support a version of events in which a 
third party carried out the disputed account operations and transactions without Mr Bs 
knowledge or consent. For this reason, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it held Mr B liable for the BBL and the transactions.
Mr B argues that Lloyds should have taken more steps to prevent fraud. In particular, he 
says that the bank should have monitored his personal account after a fraudulent payment 
was discovered to have been made by a third party to the account, unrelated to the BBL 
events. But that fraudulent payment was made to his account in July 2020, which was after 
the BBL and cryptocurrency account transactions, not before them. 
Mr B also asks why further checks werent made to verify the trading and financial status of 
the business that made the BBL application. But the rules of the government-backed 
scheme required banks to accept self-declared trading data on the BBL application form, so I 
dont think the bank acted unreasonably when it did that. 
In any event, Ive said that I believe the evidence doesnt support a version of events in 
which a third party carried out the disputed account operations and transactions without Mr Bs knowledge or consent. It follows that in the circumstances of this case, I couldnt 
reasonably say that those account operations and transactions resulted from any weakness 
in the measures taken by Lloyds to prevent third-party fraud.
Lloyds initially told us that it couldnt locate any SMS and IP address information, but it was 
later able to provide the evidence described above. Investigating the complaint would have 
been easier if wed been given that information from the outset, but I have no reason to 
suspect that the bank fabricated any evidence, and I dont believe it did so.
For all the above reasons, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably when it held 
Mr B liable for the BBL and the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman