DRN-4197845
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain they didnt get the mortgage they wanted when they remortgaged 
online with Accord Mortgages Limited. They wanted a fixed rate, but ended up with a 
variable rate. They said if Accord had sent them documents, they could have cancelled.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P have a joint mortgage with Accord, which they said was first taken out in 
June 2021. They had a two year fixed rate, but at the end of September 2022, they were 
concerned about future interest rate rises, and they decided to remortgage before the end of 
their existing fixed rate deal. 
Mrs P said they chose a deal which would keep their repayments about the same, and paid 
a substantial Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to end their previous agreement. Mrs P said 
theyd understood they had chosen a deal with a fixed interest rate. But later, in January 
2023, they received notification from Accord that their monthly mortgage payments were 
increasing, as their mortgage was linked to a standard variable rate. Mrs P said she 
complained, and was told that shed selected a product with a variable rate. 
Mrs P said the product shed chosen had a misleading name, so it looked like a fixed interest 
rate mortgage. And she said that, as an online product, she didnt get all the information a 
consumer needs to make the right choice. She said all she could see online, when she took 
out the new mortgage deal, was just a very limited summary of the product. Mrs P said shed 
spoken to Accord after this to pay the ERC, and said shed fixed her interest rate, but the 
person she spoke to didnt mention that shed taken a variable rate product. 
Mrs P said that after shed taken out the new mortgage deal, Accord only sent her a letter 
confirming it had transferred their mortgage to the new product. Mrs P thought that, as with 
any other product purchased online, Accord should have given her the option to change her 
mind and cancel in the first 14 days. But it hadnt done so. So Mrs P said shed only been 
sent notification of the new monthly payment amount, when she should have had a new 
mortgage illustration, plus additional information about the product, and explicit advice about 
the variable interest rate. Mrs P said if she had received all the appropriate documentation, 
she would have cancelled immediately. 
Mrs P said she and Mr P were now struggling with the higher mortgage repayment, and they 
were worried rates could further increase in the future. She wanted to cancel this deal, 
receive a refund on the ERC she had paid, and revert to her old fixed rate mortgage. Then 
she could select a new fixed rate deal when that one expired, in June 2023. 
Accord didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it hadnt provided any advice for Mrs P 
when she chose a new mortgage. She did that herself, online, on 24 September 2022. 
Accord said it thought that the different mortgage products it offered were explained, both in 
summary on the page listing those products, and then in more detail in the Key Points 
Explained document. Accord sent Mrs P copies of the Key Points Explained Your 
Mortgage Illustration and Your Product Transfer Offer documents, with these sections 
highlighted.
When this case came to our service, Accord said that Mr P and Mrs P had the variable rate 
mortgage theyd chosen.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he understood this had 
been frustrating for Mr P and Mrs P, but he didnt think Accord had given Mr P or Mrs P 
mortgage advice. He thought Mrs P had chosen this mortgage online. He said that Accord 
wasnt responsible for this choice. 
Our investigator said he thought the documents Accord had shown us did confirm the type of 
mortgage Mrs P had chosen. And he said Accord had told us this information was shown to 
Mrs P online. He said Mrs P had accepted that, and then paid the ERC on her old mortgage, 
which was charged in line with the previous mortgage offer. 
Our investigator didnt think what had gone wrong here was Accords fault. So he didnt think 
it had to make changes to Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgage now. 
Our investigator sent Mr P and Mrs P two documents, a mortgage offer dated 24 September 
2022 and a letter titled Key Points Explained. These documents both set out, on the first 
page, that the interest rate on this mortgage would be variable.
Mrs P replied to say that those documents were clear, but she hadnt got them. They werent 
sent to her. She said if she had received these, she would have invoked her right to cancel 
this agreement within the first 14 days. But all she got was a letter, which she showed us, 
that did confirm shed transferred her mortgage, but didnt set out the details of the new 
product. Mrs P also said the product transfer offer that Accord sent us said it was only valid 
until 24 September, but Accord had accepted payment of the ERC from her on 26 
September, so that didnt look right.
Mrs P wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so this case came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Mrs P doesnt allege that Accord offered advice on this mortgage, and she 
accepts it was taken out online. 
When Mrs P said she hadnt previously seen the documents that Accord sent her in 
response to her complaint, our investigator asked Accord for some further information. And 
in response, Accord sent us a screenshot of the screen Mrs P had to click, to accept this 
new mortgage. 
That begins with the following  
Agreement
By clicking I agree you are confirming you accept the following:You have opened and read all the information provided in Your documents and 
accept the terms of your Mortgage Offer.
Once your new deal is confirmed, you lose the right to cancel switching your deal.
Accord told us this product transfer offer was accepted online on 24 September 2022. And it 
said if the offer document hadnt been opened, Mrs P wouldnt have been able to accept. Its 
system checks the document has been opened, before it will process any offer acceptance. 
Mrs P told us if shed seen the documents which Accord has now shared with us, she would 
have cancelled immediately. But Accord has now told us it did make these documents 
available to Mrs P before this offer was accepted, and took some steps to try to ensure she 
read those documents. 
I do think those documents are clear, and provide a reasonably prominent warning that the 
mortgage Mrs P was taking out had a variable interest rate. And I do think that these 
documents were made available to Mrs P before she took out this mortgage. 
I think the date on the mortgage illustration which Mrs P commented on, simply reflects that 
this was made available to her online on 24 September, and that Accord wouldnt 
necessarily have held this offer open to her past that date.
Mr P and Mrs P were charged an ERC for ending the previous mortgage deal early. I think 
thats in line with the previous mortgage offer, which Accord has sent us. I understand that 
Mrs P referred to her new mortgage as a fixed rate, when she rang to pay the ERC on her 
old mortgage. But I dont think that means the agent (who was just collecting payment on 
this call) had to check Mrs Ps new mortgage, and warn her about her mistake. 
Mrs P has referred to her 14 day right to cancel this mortgage. Mortgages arent required to 
have the same 14 day cooling off period, under law, that some other financial products 
benefit from. And here, Im also satisfied that Accord warned Mrs P about this, because it did 
tell her she would have no right to cancel after shed accepted the deal.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P havent ended up with the mortgage they wanted, and I 
appreciate just how very upsetting this is for them, especially given that they paid a large 
ERC to exit their old mortgage deal. Ive been very sorry to hear about how this has affected 
them. Im also sorry to have to tell them now that I just dont think what has gone wrong here 
is Accords fault. And that means this complaint wont be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman