DRN-3409778
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim.  
What happened
Mr H has travel insurance as part of his packaged bank account. The policy is underwritten 
by UKI. 
Mr H was on his way to the airport in the early hours of the morning to depart for his ski 
holiday. On his journey he said he encountered high winds due to a storm, which resulted in 
his ski equipment (ski poles, ski bindings and a bag) blowing off and falling from the roof of 
his car, where theyd been secured. 
Mr H said he said he turned around when it was possible and went back to the scene of the 
incident to try and retrieve his items. However, they were damaged beyond repair. 
He said he cleared up the debris off the road and was unable to fit any broken pieces of 
equipment into his car because it was filled with passengers and luggage. Due to the bad 
weather and having his young children with him, Mr H said he didnt think there was anything 
more he could do so he continued with his journey to the airport. He didnt take any 
photographs at the scene. 
When Mr H returned to the UK from his holiday, he made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy for the damaged equipment and the cost of his ski hire. UKI reviewed the claim but 
said it wasnt covered by the policy because Mr H hadnt provided evidence to substantiate 
his loss such as a police report or photos of the damaged equipment.
Mr H raised a complaint and UKI maintained its position that the claim wasnt covered. But 
they acknowledged their customer service during the claim could have been better, so they 
awarded him £75 compensation. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened and she thought UKI had acted fairly to decline Mr Hs claim because he hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence to meet the policy terms. 
Mr H disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In March 2022 I issued 
my provisional findings to both parties, explaining that I was intending on upholding this 
complaint. I set out my reasoning as follows:
The policy terms state: 
We will cover you:
 if winter sports equipment that you own or have hired is lost, stolen or
accidentally damaged during your trip:
 for the hire of replacement winter sports equipment for the remainder of your trip if
winter sports equipment that you own has been lost, stolen or accidentally
damaged while on your trip, or if it is temporarily lost for more than four hours on
your outbound trip: and
The special conditions which apply to winter sports claims are: 
Special conditions
 You must report any theft or loss of winter sports equipment to the police within
24 hours of discovering it or as soon as reasonably possible after that and get a
police report from them.
 You must always take reasonable care of your winter sports equipment to keep it
safe and take all reasonable steps to recover winter sports equipment that is lost or
stolen.
 You must provide us with proof of ownership and value for the items of winter
sports equipment for which you are claiming to substantiate your claim.
 We will at our option either
- pay the cost of repairing or replacing the item: or
- make a cash payment to you.
Trip is defined as a journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of 
insurance
I can see UKI considered by Mr Hs claim under the lost terms of the winter sports
section of the policy. But Mr H has not lost the equipment  the equipment blew off from
the car due to strong winds and so Mr H didnt lose it, he knew where it was. The reason
for the claim is because the equipment has been damaged beyond repair. But I dont think
UKI have fairly considered it in this way as theyve continually asked for evidence of a
police report which is only relevant for claims for lost or stolen items.
With a claim for damaged equipment, I think its fair for UKI to ask a policy holder for a
damage report - this is to check the cause of damage and the possibility of a repair. But in
the circumstances of Mr Hs claim I think this was unreasonable. Mr H made UKI aware
from the start of his claim that the equipment was destroyed and left on the roadside. And
hes provided a plausible and reasonable explanation as to why he didnt take a
photograph of the damaged equipment because at the time it was 3 am, dark, stormy
weather, with children on a busy road. So I think it was unfair for UKI to decline his claim
on the basis he didnt have a damage report or a photo of the damaged ski equipment in
the road. It is well documented that were destructive winds and heavy rainfall in the UK on
the 15-16 February.
Ive also taken account of the ski carriage that Mr H had booked and paid for on his flight,
which is evidenced in the documentation hes provided. And the strong supporting
evidence of proof of ownership of the ski equipment before he travelled.
So whilst I acknowledge Mr H has been unable to provide the proof of damage evidence
UKI expect to see, Im persuaded overall by the information he has been able to give in
the unusual circumstances of UK weather causing damage to winter sport equipment. On
that basis, I dont think it was reasonable for UKI to decline Mr Hs claim.
The claim information requests sent to Mr H say if the item is beyond repair, a quote to
replace the item should be provided. Im persuaded its most likely Mr Hs equipment was
damaged beyond repair and hes provided UKI with all replacement costs, so in the
specific circumstances of this case I think it would be fair and reasonable to cover the cost
of Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. And 8% simple interest 
should be added to that figure.UKI responded to say they accepted my provisional decision and requested the cost of Mr 
Hs bindings and the age, so this could be included in their settlement calculations. 
Mr H responded with the two quotes for bindings that hed already previously provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted the outcome set out in my provisional decision, I see no reason for 
me to reach a different conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to: 
- settle Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms, taking into account the 
information hes provided. 
- add 8% simple interest to that figure. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman