DRN-3137994
The complaint
Mr F and Miss M are unhappy with the service they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
including that Barclays didnt update their correspondence address when they moved home 
which caused one of their accounts to become overdrawn.
What happened
Mr F and Miss M moved home in May 2008 at which time they had a current account with 
Barclays. Mr F and Miss M used the Barclays current account for a short while following the 
move, but they then forgot about the current account, which had a small balance and a 
recurring monthly card payment, until they were contacted by a debt collection agency in 
2015 about the account.
Mr F and Miss M contacted Barclays about the current account but didnt receive a 
satisfactory answer from Barclays as to what had happened. Later, Mr F and Miss M 
received a letter from Barclays which referenced compensation. Mr F and Miss M contacted 
Barclays about this letter but were advised that no compensation was due to them for what 
had taken place.
Mr F and Miss M werent happy about what had happened, especially as the outstanding 
balance that had accrued on the account had had an impact on their credit files. So, they 
raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at the complaint. They noted that it was difficult to confirm exactly what had 
taken place, given the length of time that had elapsed since Mr F and Miss M had moved 
house in 2008, but that it appeared that Mr F and Miss Ms correspondence address had 
never been updated. Barclays couldnt confirm whether theyd ever received a request from 
Mr F and Miss M to update their correspondence address, but they agreed to reimburse to 
Mr F and Miss M £89.82 relating to the recurring card payments that had left the account 
and caused it to become overdrawn and also agreed to make a payment of £150 to Mr F 
and Miss M to compensate them for any inconvenience they may have incurred.
Mr F and Miss M werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response 
to the complaint that Barclays had already issued, including the reimbursement of £89.82 
and the payment of £150 compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt ask Barclays to take any further 
action.
Mr F and Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that the root cause of this complaint is that when Mr F and Miss M moved to a 
new house in 2008 their correspondence address wasnt updated by Barclays. This meant 
that Mr F and Miss M stopped receiving statements for the current account, and 
consequently that they werent aware that the recurring card payment that was being taken 
monthly from the account had taken the account overdrawn.
Barclays have said that, given the length of time that has elapsed since 2008, they cant be 
certain whether or not they ever received a request from Mr F and Miss M to update their 
address on the current account. I can understand Barclays position here, and I wouldnt 
expect Barclays to have maintained a record of such a request that may or may not have 
taken place over a decade ago.
Barclays have also explained that they made the decision to uphold this complaint on the 
basis that they couldnt discount the possibility that Mr F and Miss M had asked to update 
their address in 2008, and that the request wasnt actioned correctly by them at that time.
Barclays actions here appear generous to me, and I say this because Mr F and Miss M have 
confirmed that they were aware of the current account, and used it following the move for 
some time, but that they then forgot about it. As such, I feel that Mr F and Miss M should 
bear some responsibility for what happened here, and it would be expected that Mr F and 
Miss M would have asked Barclays why they were no longer receiving statements on the 
account, or that they would have continued to monitor the account via other means.
Mr F and Miss M have stated that they feel that Barclays should have monitored the account 
more closely and that Barclays should have made more proactive attempts to contact them 
when it was recognised that the recurring card payments were in danger of taking the 
account overdrawn. But as alluded to above, the primary responsibility for monitoring the 
account rested with Mr F and Miss M as the account holders, and it wouldnt be expected 
that Barclays would monitor accounts to the degree that Mr F and Miss M suggest here.
Mr F and Miss M are also unhappy that Barclays referred their account to a debt collection 
company and have questioned whether Barclays could have done more to locate them 
themselves. But given the arrears that had developed on the account and that the address 
that Barclays held for Mr F and Miss M was no longer valid, I feel that it was reasonable for 
Barclays to have referred the account to a debt collection agency at the time that they did.
Im also aware that Mr F and Miss M are upset that their credit files were adversely impacted 
by this account for several years. However, even if I accept that a request was put into to 
Barclays by Mr F and Miss M in 2008 to change the address, Id still expect Mr F and Miss M 
to have monitored the account or to have challenged Barclays as to why statements werent 
being received, and so I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Barclays 
potential actions or omissions have been the sole cause of Mr F and Miss M incurring such 
adverse credit reporting such that any further compensation is merited at this time.
Finally, Mr F and Miss M have stated that they are unhappy with the service that they 
received from Barclays in relation to their complaint. I can appreciate Mr F and Miss Ms 
frustrations here, but this service cant comment on how a business has handled a complaint 
but only on the matter being complained about. This is because this service is only permitted 
to consider complaints about regulated activities, such as the administration of current 
accounts, whereas complaint handling is not classed as a regulated activity. 
More information about the types of complaint that this service can consider can be found in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, 
which defines the parameters by which this service must abide.All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Barclays have already issued in 
response to this complaint already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has 
happened, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F and Miss M wanted, but I trust that theyll 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman