DRN-3964378
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Quilter Life & Pensions Limited lost or misplaced a cheque 
sent by their financial adviser and this resulted in a financial loss within their Investment 
Bond.
What happened
A financial adviser acting for Mrs D and Mr D sent an application form and two cheques for 
Investment Bonds to Quilter on 16 June 2022. Quilter received the application forms and 
supporting documents the following day and emailed the financial adviser to say that one of 
the cheques hadnt been received. Quilter followed this email with a further email on 22 June 
when the financial adviser didnt respond. After a telephone call with the financial adviser 
Quilter received a replacement cheque the following day and it was applied to the 
Investment Bond on 30 June.
Mrs D and Mr D complained to Quilter that the delay in posting the cheque to the Investment 
Bond created a financial loss. Quilter didnt uphold the complaint and said that after a 
thorough search to try and locate the original cheque it has no record of it ever having been 
received at Quilter.
Mrs D and Mr D brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
Investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to say it was more likely than not that Quilter 
lost or misplaced the cheque. And that Quilters actions support it wasnt responsible for any 
delay in a replacement cheque being received. Mrs D and Mr D asked that an Ombudsman 
decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Mrs D and Mr D believe Quilter lost or misplaced the 
cheque and that this caused them to suffer a financial loss. I understand Mrs G and Mr D will 
be disappointed but for very much the same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that the financial adviser posted documents to Quilter and that Quilter 
received them on 17 June. The financial adviser says two cheques were sent to Quilter 
Quilter says that only one was received. Quilter has provided details of the checks it carried 
out before it told the financial adviser one of the cheques was missing and details of the 
further checks it carried out after Mrs D and Mr D complained. In cases like this - where 
there is no evidence either way what happened to the cheque  I have to make a decision 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Taking into account the process 
Quilter has in place for the post it receives and that it carried out further checks with its Cash 
Team, I think its more likely than not Quilter didnt receive the cheque in question.
I empathise with Mrs D and Mr D that the funds werent invested as quickly as they 
expected, and I acknowledge their strong view that Quilter is responsible. But, as I think its 
more likely than not Quilter didnt receive the cheque, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Quilter is responsible for any financial loss Mrs D and Mr D experienced. Regardless of this, 
Im satisfied that when Quilter realised the cheque hadnt been received, it acted promptly 
and emailed the financial adviser the same day and followed this up with a further email and 
telephone call. In this regard I think Quilters actions were fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above Ive decided not to uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint 
about Quilter Life & Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman