DRN-3134885
The complaint
Mrs M claims HDI Global SE hasnt settled her farm insurance claim fairly. 
HDIs been represented for the claim and complaint by its agents. For simplicity Ive referred 
to their actions as being those of HDI.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss M made a claim for water damage to her property. HDI agreed to 
pay for the repairs. But she was unhappy about how the claim was handled - including HDIs 
communications and the time it took to deal with her claim. She feels HDI should pay her 
more to reflect the costs it saved by her drying the property herself. And shes unhappy with 
the premium charged for the policy she took out in April 2021. 
Our investigator said the insurer didnt need to pay Miss M anything more for the drying out 
costs. He didnt think it had treated her unfairly in regard to the April 2021 premium. But he 
recommended HDI pay her £100 to compensate for unnecessary delay.  
Miss M didnt accept the assessment. She said she hadnt been paid anything for the drying 
out  despite the insurer agreeing that she would be if she undertook the work herself. She 
hasnt said if she thinks £100 is enough compensation  but HDI agreed to pay it. 
Ive already explained to Miss M and HDI that I wont be considering her complaint about the 
cost of her April 2021 policy. It was provided by a different insurer. So in this complaint 
against HDI I cant consider if the premium was set and charged fairly.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M bought and used a dehumidifier to dry out the property. Shes said HDI didnt pay her 
anything to cover those costs. However, it seems to me that it has paid her an amount to 
cover the cost of the equipment. In addition it paid her about £20 to cover electricity costs. 
This is set out in a breakdown of the claim settlement. 
The cost was covered in an interim payment, for £500, requested by Miss Ms broker. An 
incorrect amount of £1,000, to reflect that interim payment, was initially deducted from the 
final settlement paid to Miss M. However, HDI accepted it had made a mistake and paid her 
a further £500. So Im satisfied HDI has covered the cost of the dehumidifier and an amount 
to reflect running costs.
Miss M feels that isnt enough. She wants HDI to pay her an amount equivalent to the saving 
it made by her doing the work, rather than one of its contractors. Thats about £290 by Miss 
Ms calculations. She says HDI agreed to pay her this. But it denies that.  
Having considered everything provided, I can see that Miss Ms broker requested this 
additional payment for the drying. It seems, from HDIs claim notes, the insurer may have 
considered agreeing to the payment. So I accept its possible it did agree to it, but I havent 
seen anything to make me think it most likely did.  
I can see HDI offered the services of one of its contractors to dry the property out. So Miss M 
didnt have to do the work herself. I can understand why she made that decision, but 
ultimately it was her choice to do so. The fair outcome is that she isnt left out of pocket for it 
 not she receives more than she spent on the work, even if she did save HDI some money. 
So Im not going to require HDI to pay her extra for the drying out.
In general HDI processed the claim reasonably efficiently. There were a few minor delays 
here and there. Perhaps some communication could have been a litter better. And Ive 
considered Miss Ms personal circumstances at the time. Having done so, I agree that £100 
is a fair amount to reflect any distress or inconvenience HDI experienced. So HDI, if it hasnt 
already, will need to pay her that amount. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require HDI Global SE to pay Miss M £100 compensation, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman