DRN-2540816
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his daughter, Miss C, that Nationwide Building Society failed to 
open her student account in a timely manner, and refused to adequately certify a copy of her 
statement for another bank.
What happened
Miss C had a current account with Nationwide. She also had an ISA with a third party 
building society, which she wished to transfer to a bank. The bank required proof of her 
identity and address, and so in July 2020 she asked Nationwide to print her account 
statement she could send to the bank and to sign it to certify that it was authentic (since she 
did not receive paper statements). Nationwide certified the statement with a stamp, but 
refused to sign it as well, saying its policy was not to do more than a stamp. Her father, 
Mr C, who represents her in this complaint, was with her at the time. He says they both felt 
that Nationwides refusal was due to racial discrimination, about which they feel very 
strongly. Nationwide says its staff member was only following internal rules.
Miss C sent the stamped statement to the bank anyway, but as she expected, the bank did 
not accept it. Two more statements were sent to the bank, and the third was accepted. 
Meanwhile, Mr C tried to get Nationwide and the bank to speak to each other on the phone, 
but Nationwide refused, citing concerns about data protection law. In August Nationwide 
wrote a letter to Mr C telling him that his conduct on a phone call had been aggressive and 
unacceptable, and asking him to be more restrained in future. Mr C complains that this letter 
was entirely unjustified, and that Nationwide has effectively accused him of lying by 
disagreeing with his recollection of the call.
Also in August, Miss C applied to open a student account with Nationwide, as she was going 
to start at university in September. This was supposed to take five working days, but the 
account was not opened until October, for reasons which have not been explained.
In September Nationwide sent Mr C its final response letter. It apologised for the delay in 
opening the student account, and also for what it described as the delay in sending its final 
response. For these matters, Nationwide paid £125 into Miss Cs account. Miss C and her 
father were not satisfied with that response, and so they brought this complaint to our 
Service. They also complain about the delay in receiving Nationwides final response.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that Nationwides staff had only 
been following the building societys internal guidelines (which hed read), and so he did not 
agree that they had discriminated against Miss C. He said Mr C was not an eligible 
complainant in relation to this complaint, as he was only acting in the capacity of his 
daughters representative, and so our Service had no jurisdiction to consider any complaint 
about how Mr C himself had ben treated, such as in the letter which was sent to him in 
August. He thought £125 was fair compensation for the delay in opening the student 
account, given that there had been no financial loss caused to Miss C by the delay.
Mr C did not accept that decision. He said the investigator had let Nationwide off the hook for 
everything it had done. He argued that the £125 had only been meant to be compensation 
for the delay in opening the student account up to when it had been paid, but there had been 
further delay for weeks after that, for which further compensation ought to be paid. But his 
greatest concern was that his reputation had been smeared, by being called abusive and 
dishonest. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all of the issues which have been raised in this complaint are matters I have power to 
look into. The extent of the Financial Ombudsman Services powers are set out in rules 
made by the Financial Conduct Authority in the FCA Handbook. In very brief summary, they 
say that a person is only eligible to complain about matters arising from their relationship 
with the business they are complaining about (for example, as a customer of the business). 
It follows that I can only award compensation to an eligible complainant.
In this case, Miss C is the eligible complainant, because this complaint is about her accounts 
with Nationwide. She is a customer of Nationwide, and her complaint arises from that 
relationship with Nationwide. Her father has represented her in this complaint, but he is not 
eligible to complain in his own right. The letter Nationwide sent to him was a warning about 
his behaviour not as a Nationwide customer but as his daughters representative. The phone 
call he complains about was a call he made in the same capacity. (Mr C might also have a 
Nationwide account of his own, for all I know, but no part of this complaint is about his own 
account.) Therefore I do not have power to consider Mr Cs complaint about what 
Nationwide said about him in its August letter, or about any phone calls he had with 
Nationwide.
I have read Nationwides internal policy document about countersigning documents for its 
members, and they leave no room for branch staff to exercise their discretion. So I am 
satisfied that when the branch staff refused to do more than stamp the statements, they 
were only following their strict instructions, and they were not treating Miss C any differently 
than they would have treated another customer who made the same request.
I appreciate Mr Cs argument that Nationwides policy is too strict and that he felt that its staff 
were being unhelpful, and that he and his daughter feel strongly about this, but as our 
investigator said, I cannot compel Nationwide to change its policy. (In its final response 
letter, Nationwide said it had taken note of the fact that the bank where Miss C had wanted 
to open an account does not accept a stamp as sufficient evidence. I dont know if this will 
lead to Nationwide changing its policy, and I cant order it to, but I encourage it to review its 
policy in light of this information. I think Nationwide could do more to verify that a statement 
is genuine, without compromising its policy of not verifying a customers identity or that they 
live at the address on the statement.)
Although Nationwides final response letter was addressed to Mr C, it was really about 
Miss Cs complaint, so I think Miss C is eligible to complain about the letter being late. But 
I dont think it was late. Under the FCAs rules, a building society is allowed to take up to 
eight weeks to investigate a complaint and give its final response. Nationwide took about six 
weeks, and it apologised for having taken longer than it had initially indicated it would. Part 
of the £125 compensation was given for that issue. But notwithstanding Nationwides own 
decision about that, I do not agree that it is an error, because the letter was sent within the 
time allowed.
The £125 was also for the delay in opening the Nationwide student account. I can see why 
Mr C has asked for more, given that the delay still continued after that. But given that Miss C still had access to money, and was not living at university (her accommodation was 
withdrawn due to the pandemic), I think that £125 is fair compensation for the entire time she 
was without her student account. In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account my 
decision in the previous paragraph that I would not have awarded compensation for the 
late final response letter, if no compensation had been paid by Nationwide for that matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman