DRN-4410090
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt allow him access to money paid into 
his account and gave him incorrect information.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Nationwide. 
In October 2019, Mr N received a HMRC tax refund payment of just over £7,000 into his 
current account. Following this, Nationwide decided to review Mr Ns account and asked him 
to provide information regarding his entitlement to the funds. 
Whilst it completed its review Nationwide said Mr N could access other money in his account 
by visiting a branch with identification. Nationwide placed a block on Mr Ns account and 
ringfenced the HMRC payment whilst it waited for Mr N to provide information that showed 
he was entitled to the money. Following this, Nationwide decided to close Mr Ns account.
In response to Nationwides request, Mr N told the bank that he was self-employed and 
provided a copy of a letter hed received from HMRC which confirmed the tax rebate and 
copies of some of his wage slips. Nationwide reviewed the paperwork but didnt think it 
showed Mr N was entitled to the HMRC payment. So, in June 2020, Nationwide retuned the 
funds to HMRC. 
Nationwide didnt tell Mr N that it had sent Mr Ns money back to HMRC in June 2020. So, 
Mr N continued to contact Nationwide trying to gain access to the money. Each time Mr N 
contacted them, Nationwide told Mr N that he needed to contact HMRC and ask them to 
recall the funds from them  in other words giving him the impressions that the bank still had 
the money. But Nationwide didnt provide Mr N with any details to help Mr N with tracing the 
funds.
As a result, Mr N repeatedly contacted HMRC and Nationwide between 2020 and 2022 
trying to locate the money and arrange for HMRC to recall the funds from Nationwide. When 
he did, HMRC said it was unable to find any payment related to him, based on the limited 
information he was able to provide, and gave him a letter to provide to Nationwide explaining 
that they were unable to recall the money from Mr Ns bank account.  When Mr N spoke to 
Nationwide it mistakenly told him to get HMRC to recall the funds. This back and forth went 
on until early 2023, when Nationwide finally told Mr N that it had actually sent the money 
back to HMRC in June 2020.
 
Mr N complained to Nationwide. He said that he had been caused a great deal of trouble 
and upset as a result of not being told where his money was. He said that Nationwide hadnt 
been clear with him about what had happened to his money and didnt give him any 
information that would have helped him track down his funds at HMRC, which made him feel 
like a football being passed between the bank and HMRC. He also complained that 
Nationwide hadnt released the closing balance of his account, which at the time was just 
over £250. Overall, he said Nationwides actions had caused him a great deal of trouble and 
upset, especially as everything happened during the covid pandemic which meant Mr N was 
relying on the money for his living expenses. So, he said Nationwide should pay him 
compensation.
In response, Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong in sending he funds back to 
HMRC and had sent the money back in June 2020.
 
Unhappy with this response Mr N brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. After reviewing all the information, the 
investigator said that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong when it returned Mr Ns HMRC 
payment back to source, but it had made mistakes in not telling Mr N it had done this and 
repeatedly providing him with incorrect information. The investigator also said that 
Nationwide should have released Mr Ns closing account balance. The investigator accepted 
that Mr N had been caused trouble and upset as a result of Nationwides mistakes. To put 
things right he said Nationwide should pay Mr N £200 compensation, 8% interest for loss of 
use of the funds which were sent back and release Mr Ns closing balance.
In response, Nationwide accepted it had made mistakes and agreed with the investigators 
recommendations. Mr N disagreed. He said the amount of compensation doesnt adequately 
reflect the amount of trouble and upset he has suffered. He said the was evicted from his 
home, became ill and didnt have enough money to pay for everyday essentials. And he 
spent years trying to find his money. So, he wants more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Nationwide made mistakes in this case. It incorrectly told Mr N that it 
he had to contact HMRC and arrange for them to recall the funds that had been paid into his 
account and it confirmed this inaccurate information on several occasions between 2020 and 
2022. 
Nationwide returned Mr Ns funds back to HMRC in June 2020. But it didnt give Mr N this 
information until early 2023. Nationwide has acknowledged that it should have told Mr N 
much sooner than it did that it had returned Mr Ns tax rebate back to HMRC. It has also 
accepted that it should have given Mr N information that may have helped HMRC locate 
Mr Ns funds. 
Nationwide hasnt explained how the mistakes happened. It has suggested that it was a 
result of poor communication between internal departments. That may well be the case, but I 
find taking just over two years to tell Mr N where his money was unreasonable. So, Im not 
satisfied Nationwide has treated Mr N fairly. Nationwide has accepted they should have  told 
Mr N much sooner than they did that they had sent his money back to HMRC. Nationwide 
has agreed to pay Mr N £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
mistakes. It has also agreed to release Mr Ns closing account balance and pay 8% interest 
for the loss of use of the funds. Mr N has said this isnt enough to reflect the trouble and 
upset he has suffered. 
There isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor 
service. Its my role to consider what impact Nationwides actions have had on Mr N and 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances. Ive considered what Mr N has said about his personal situation and the toll taken on Mr Ns 
health. Its clear to me based on what hes said that he has strong feelings about how he has 
been treated and that Nationwide should ensure whats happened to him doesnt happen to 
someone else. Of course, banks should take reasonable steps to avoid making mistakes, 
but its unrealistic to expect mistakes will never be made. I dont doubt the mistakes made by 
Nationwide caused Mr N worry, upset, and led to Mr N being deprived of his funds. So, I 
agree with the investigator that compensation is appropriate for this. 
To determine this, Ive thought about the extent and impact Nationwides errors had on Mr N. 
He had to spend time going back and forth contacting Nationwide and HMRC, collating 
information, and most significantly he had to wait more than two years for Nationwide to give 
him the correct information about what it had done with his money. This all happened during 
a time when the UK was locked down which meant Mr N struggled to find work. So, I can 
understand how inconvenient  and upsetting all of this was for Mr N. And its only right that 
Nationwide recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £200, recommended by the 
investigator is fair and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr N was caused. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive reviewed the medical evidence and letter from Mr Ns 
landlord that he has submitted. I dont disagree that Mr N has faced some serious health 
issues over recent years, but Ive not been provided with any doctors report or medical 
evidence to persuade me that anything Nationwide did or didnt do led to Mr N suffering with 
the health issues he has told us about. Equally, Ive not been provided with enough evidence 
that Mr N was evicted from his home because of the mistakes Nationwide made. Given this 
Im not persuaded to award Mr N more compensation. 
In this case Mr N has been deprived of his funds for a considerable period of time  money 
that he should have had available to him to use as he wanted. Because of the length of time, 
I cant say for sure what the specific cost of not having these funds available would be. It will 
have influenced a whole host of decisions about spending and borrowing over that time. To 
attempt to rework or reconsider Mr Ns financial decisions over the period he was without his 
funds would be incredibly arduous, and not within the remit of our service to resolve 
complaints quickly and with the minimum of formality.
With that in mind Im satisfied awarding 8% simple interest on the amount for the period it 
wasnt available to Mr N is appropriate. It reflects the cost of being deprived these funds. Its 
also in line with the statutory interest rate on judgement debts.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr N distress and inconvenience when he wasnt able to use 
his account. And had to wait as long as he did for Nationwide to release his funds. So 
understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating 
time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the compensation 
recommended by the investigator recognises the impact Nationwides actions had in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be telling Nationwide to do anything else 
to resolve Mr Ns complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right Nationwide 
Building Society should:
Pay Mr N £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by giving Mr N 
incorrect information on several occasions about money that was paid into his 
account 
Release Mr Ns closing balance to him
Pay Mr N 8% simple interest on the sum of £7,008.03 from 1 June 2020 until 17 
February 2023
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to withhold income tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. Nationwide Building Society should give Mr N a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if Mr N asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman