DRN-3109204
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted 
unreasonably when it blocked a payment from their joint bank account.
What happened
Mr B says he attempted to make an online payment from his joint bank account with Halifax 
to his wifes bank account with another provider. Mr B says the payment was rejected and he 
was directed to telephone Halifax. After completing a number of security questions Mr B was 
told he would need to visit his branch with identification, before the payment could be made. 
Mr B feels the reason for this decision was because he had refused to explain the purpose of 
the payment and Halifaxs advisor took exception to this. 
Mr B says he then telephoned Halifax a few days later, explaining he wasnt able to visit a 
branch because he and his wife were self-isolating. Halifax went on to suggest he could ask 
a family member or friend to take in the identification on his behalf, but Mr B didnt feel that 
was practical as he had no relations close by. Mr B says he was told during this call his 
internet banking facility had been blocked which meant he was unable to pay vital bills that 
were due. Mr B says in March 2021 he took his identification into a Halifax branch, but 
because of technical issues was asked to return the following business day, when after a 
lengthy time on the telephone the matter was finally resolved. 
Mr B says this has caused him a great deal of stress and he has received demand letters for 
bills that he should have been able to meet and he wants compensation from Halifax for the 
inconvenience and loss of earnings this matter has caused. 
Halifax says although it appreciates Mr B had been inconvenienced, the identification 
verification was required to protect him against potential fraud. Halifax says it offered 
alternative solutions to Mr B, but unfortunately he didnt feel that was appropriate. Halifax 
didnt feel they had done anything wrong here. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Halifax have a duty of care to protect its customers from fraud and didnt 
think the advisor had deliberately blocked Mr Bs internet banking due to a personal issue, 
simply he was following Halifaxs procedures.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr B not to be able to make a payment to 
his wifes bank account, because of a potential fraud alert on his joint bank account with 
Halifax. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted reasonably when it 
blocked Mr Bs online banking facility and asked him to visit a branch with identification 
before it could be reinstated.
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic, which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint centres around the issues Mr B faced after he spoke to an 
advisor from Halifax, following his attempt to make a sizeable online payment to his wifes 
bank account in January 2021. Mr B says the payment was blocked and after he telephoned 
Halifax to deal with the issue, and going through various security questions, it made the 
decision to block his online banking and required him to visit a branch with identification 
before removing it. Mr B is of the view the advisor he spoke to, took personal exception to 
the fact he told him he wasnt happy to discuss the purpose behind the payment initially, and 
that is why the block was marked. 
Mr B  is unhappy even though he informed Halifax that he was unable to visit a branch 
because he and his wife were self- isolating, it still insisted this was the only way his online 
banking facility could be reinstated. This meant Mr B wouldnt be able to make essential 
payments he needed to. Mr B says when he did eventually visit a local branch in early March 
2021, he was told by a member of staff he would need to return the following Monday as it 
was unable to get through to the department who dealt with these matters. Mr B says the 
block was eventually removed when he revisited the branch the following Monday, after 
spending some time over the telephone again, and he lost working time trying to deal with 
the issues created by Halifax and wants compensation for that. 
I understand the points Mr B makes and I do have some sympathy with the situation he 
found himself in here. That said from the screen shots and information I have been provided 
with, I can see that the initial online  payment request Mr B initiated, was rejected because 
there was an issue matching the payee details he had entered to those of the recipients 
bank account. With that in mind I dont feel it was unreasonable for this to be flagged as a 
potential fraud issue by Halifax and for it to carry out its standard fraud prevention measures. 
I should say its not for me to tell banks like Halifax, what those measures must contain. 
Afterall, these are designed to ensure customers bank accounts are protected against 
potential frauds and scams. 
I have also listened to various telephone calls and from what I have heard, the advisor at 
Halifax acted professionally. But given this was a large payment to a payee where the bank 
account details werent matched, it was in all probability sufficient alone for Halifax to decide 
its procedures needed to be followed, with identification required at a branch before 
removing the block. Im not persuaded by Mr Bs argument the advisor took personal 
exception as a result of his reluctance to provide details of the purpose of the payment. I say 
this because Mr B suggested the payment was for his wifes general spending and credit 
card bills, and its not unreasonable to think this may have further added to the advisors 
concerns regarding the payment. 
Unfortunately, this was also during the Covid pandemic and I do understand Mr Bs 
reluctance to visit his branch while he and his wife were self-isolating. But its fair to say the 
backdrop of the pandemic meant businesses were on occasions left with difficult decision to 
make, and here I can understand it wouldnt wish to compromise its standard fraud 
procedures, given its importance to protect its customers interests, even if Mr B didnt think so at the time. 
I can see the Halifax advisor, when Mr B called them again, offered a suggestion of making 
payments from the joint bank account by means other than online banking - by cheque and 
cash. In addition, the advisor also suggested Mr B ask a friend or family member he could 
trust, to bring his identification to the branch to deal with the issue. Mr B didnt feel either 
suggestion was appropriate in his circumstances, and perhaps understandably, but 
unfortunately this exhausted the options available to Halifax during these unprecedented 
times. 
I havent been provided with full details of Mr Bs first visit to the branch on 5 March 2021 
when he says he was told by Halifax it couldnt get through to the department to remove the 
block, but I see no reason to suggest this didnt happen. That said it wasnt uncommon for 
banks to encounter problems with internal telephony during the Covid pandemic. Although I 
can see that was an inconvenience for Mr B, Im not persuaded this was a lack of customer 
service, simply an example of the issues facing banks like Halifax at this time and the 
unfortunate knock on affect it had for its customers. 
I was pleased to see the matter was eventually resolved when Mr B visited the branch on 8 
March 2021, and having listened to the call recording, I am satisfied the fraud department 
advisor did attempt to explain to Mr B why it had to take the measures it did, given the 
sophisticated methods fraudsters now use. 
So here, while I do understand Mr B has experienced some inconvenience, I cant say this 
was a result of poor service by Halifax or any deliberate attempt to make life difficult for Mr 
B, but more of case of them taking steps to protect its customers, as I have already 
explained. 
It follows while Mr B and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of Halifax here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman