DRN-2675643
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt proceed with a chargeback claim he 
made.
What happened
Mr D made an online purchase. The package was delivered when Mr D wasnt at home and 
was left outside Mr Ds door. When Mr D returned home, the package wasnt there. 
Mr D wasnt happy that he had paid money to the retailer but hadnt received the items. Mr D 
complained to the retailer, but without success. So, Mr D contacted Barclays and asked 
them to raise a chargeback claim to recover the money hed spent.
Barclays considered the chargeback claim, but they declined to proceed with it. Mr D wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Barclays looked at Mr Ds complaint, but they felt 
that it had been reasonable for them to decline to proceed with the chargeback claim, so 
they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt the reasons that Barclays 
gave for declining to proceed with the chargeback claim were valid ones, so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Barclays, and merchants, in this 
case the retail store, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite 
strict, and Barclays doesn't have the power to change them. 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Barclays werent required to ask Visa for the transaction 
to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good practice for them 
to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed.
Barclays noted that they contacted the retailer who stated their intention to defend the claim 
and confirmed that the goods had been delivered. Barclays noted that Mr D was sent a text 
message and an email advising him that the package was out for delivery so that Mr D could 
arrange to be at home to receive the delivery if that were possible. Barclays also noted that 
Mr D didnt provide any special delivery instructions which could have included an instruction 
to not leave the package on his doorstep and to deliver the package to a neighbour if he 
wasnt at home himself.
So, based on the above, Barclays didnt feel that the chargeback claim raised by Mr D had a 
reasonable chance of success. Instead, Barclays felt that the information they had gathered 
meant that it was more likely than not that the claim would be rejected by Visa. So, they 
declined to proceed with the claim.
As mentioned previously, a chargeback claim is not a right that a customer has, and 
Barclays were entitled to decline to proceed with the claim if they didnt think that the claim 
had a reasonable chance of success. And, considering the arguments put forward by 
Barclays here, I feel that Barclays assessment that the chargeback claim didnt have a 
reasonable chance of being successful was a fair one.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but 
I hope he can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have reached 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman