DRN-1511192
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined her application for a personal loan. 
She says she was misled before applying into thinking it would be successful. She is also 
unhappy that a credit search, related to the application, is now recorded on her credit file. 
What happened
In August 2019 Miss C applied for an £8,000 personal loan with Barclays. As part of the 
application a credit search was recorded on Miss Cs credit file.
The application was declined. This was appealed, but Barclays did not change its decision.
Miss C complained to Barclays. She said it had treated her unfairly  specifically it was 
disregarding part of her income that it should be considering. She also said she was misled 
when she first called to discuss the loan about the chances of her application succeeding. 
She said if shed known the application could be declined she wouldnt have gone ahead. 
And she says the search on her credit file is impacting on her credit score and in turn her 
work.
Barclays didnt think its decision to decline the application was incorrect. It said the 
application did not satisfy its lending criteria, so it didnt act unfairly by turning it down. It also 
said that the search of Miss Cs credit file was an accurate reflection of what happened so it 
wouldnt be asking for it to be removed. It did note that some information was recorded 
incorrectly on Miss Cs application and offered £100 for the inconvenience caused. However 
as that incorrect information related to expenditure, specifically it being under reported, it 
said that even if this error hadnt occurred, the loan would still have been declined.
Unhappy with this response Miss C asked our service to look into the complaint. An 
investigator considered the complaint. They thought Barclays had made it clear prior to the 
application that it would be subject to checks  so he didnt feel it had misled Miss C. He also 
felt the credit search had been recorded correctly as an application was made. And based 
on what hed seen he was satisfied it had considered the application fairly.
Miss C disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed again. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
 
Ive listened to recordings of two calls Miss C had with Barclays - one shortly before she 
applied for the loan where it was initially discussed and a second in which she made the 
application. The Barclays representatives in both of the calls did say that, based on the information they had, they thought the application had a good chance of being successful. 
But in both calls they also made it clear that this was not guaranteed. In the first call the 
representative explained that the application wasnt pre-approved and would be subject to a 
full credit check  which Miss C acknowledged. During the call in which the loan was applied 
for the Barclays representative reiterated that the application was not pre-approved and 
would be subject to underwriting  which Miss C again acknowledged. They also confirmed 
that information would be requested from credit reference agencies.
So, based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont think Barclays misled Miss C or indicated that 
the application was guaranteed to succeed before it was made, and I think she was aware it 
would be subject to review.
Miss C made an application for a loan. Barclays confirmed this would be subject to credit 
scoring which she acknowledged. So, I dont think Barclays was incorrect to search her 
credit file in relation to this or that the search was recorded incorrectly. So, I cant reasonably 
require it to request that credit reference agencies delete this search as it is a true reflection 
of what happened.
In terms of the lending decision itself, Barclays has demonstrated the application was 
considered by its underwriters and explained why it was not successful  it didnt meet their 
lending criteria. I havent seen anything to suggest this was assessed incorrectly. 
Miss C has said Barclays did not consider part of her income correctly. But businesses are 
entitled to set their own lending criteria and determine how they consider income and 
expenditure and what they are willing to accept. This is done at their commercial discretion 
and isnt something we can interfere with. Although Miss C disagrees with how Barclays 
considers certain elements of income, it is entitled to decide how it does so. And based on 
what Ive seen, I think her application was considered in line with Barclays criteria. 
Businesses are ultimately entitled to decide whether they are willing to lend. Barclays was 
unwilling to here. While I know Miss C was disappointed with this decision, I dont think that 
means Barclays has acted unfairly. 
Barclays has acknowledged it made some administrative errors when recording Miss Cs 
application. It has explained this wouldnt have impacted the outcome of the application  
and I think this explanation was reasonable. But in light of the mistake Barclays offered 
Miss C £100. In the circumstances, and as I dont think it has made any other errors in 
relation to the application, I think that offer is fair.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint which 
I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Miss C the £100 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman