DRN-2915243
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined his roof 
repairs, after he made a claim for storm damage on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim for storm damage. RSA declined the external roof repairs, but it covered 
the internal water damage. It concluded there were no storm conditions around the time of 
the claim, and the roof was suffering from wear and tear, and maintenance related issues, 
which arent covered. RSA covered the internal damage under the any other accident 
coverage (also referred to as accidental damage, within the policy documents).
One of our investigators didnt think RSA had unfairly declined the external damage. Mr S 
remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
Was there a storm?
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
Therefore, I have re-assessed Mr Ss complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
Ive reviewed the weather records for the two weeks before the claim was made. The highest 
wind speed recorded was 37mph. Mr Ss policy doesnt define what a storm is. However, our 
service generally doesnt consider 37mph wind to be a storm. Although there was relatively 
high rainfall the day before the claim, I havent seen anything that persuades me rainfall 
caused damage to the roof; and rain doesnt typically damage roofs.
RSAs contractor noted the mid-chimney stack was showing signs of fatigue and in a very 
poor condition. In my view, the contractors photos, taken with a drone, support his 
conclusions. 
Mr S has noted the roof wasnt physically inspected. However, its not unusual for roof claims 
to be assessed from photos. Importantly, the drone photos were clear, in my view. As such, 
Im not persuaded it was unfair to assess the roof from those photos, or that a different 
outcome would have been reached had the contractor physically inspected the roof.
I havent seen any evidence storm force winds occurred around the time of the claim, or that 
damage to the roof was caused by such weather. Im more persuaded that the high rainfall 
levels simply highlighted maintenance related issues, which arent covered by the policy. 
Therefore, Im satisfied RSAs decision to decline the external repairs was fair.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman