DRN-2778908
The complaint
Miss S complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Miss S is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Miss S 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Miss S entered a HPA with VWFS in March 2017 to acquire a new car. She says that shortly 
after acquisition she noticed a knocking noise and reported this to the dealer. A fault wasnt 
identified but a repair took place in December 2017 and Miss S that the repairer didnt use 
new parts. Miss S then reported issues with the heated rear windscreen and DAB radio 
which she reported to the dealer in October 2018. This wasnt initially diagnosed but repairs 
took place in December 2018. Miss S says that her car was damaged by the dealer and a 
repair was arranged but this was completed by an unauthorised repairer even though the 
dealer had confirmed the repairer was authorised. She says the repair wasnt of a 
satisfactory standard and as the repairer wasnt authorised this could cause issues with her 
warranty. 
Miss S says the dealer hasnt provided the service it should have and raised concerns about 
whether it had adhered to GDPR regulations. She says that consideration wasnt made to 
her illness at the time of raising the complaints and she didnt think that VWFS thoroughly 
investigated her complaint.
VWFS says that there wasnt evidence to show there were faults present at the point of 
supply and so it didnt uphold Miss S complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the areas that we could consider and 
the other organisations such as the Motor Ombudsman and Information Commissioners 
Office that Miss S may wish to contact. He considered the issues Miss S had raised and 
whether these meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. While repairs were undertaken in 
December 2017 he said that the dealer explained these were to appease Miss S and that no 
fault had been identified. He agreed that there was a fault with relating to the heated 
windscreen but as this was raised more than six months after acquisition he didnt think this 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Therefore, he didnt uphold 
this complaint.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view. She said that the noise was confirmed on at 
least four occasions by the sales manager, service manager, workshop controller and 
master technician. She said she had to explain how a driveshaft noise came about and that 
after the repair the issue remained. She said at this time she should have been allowed to 
reject the car. She said that the dealer had evaded her subject access request which 
suggested it was hiding the truth. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Miss S entered a HPA with VWFS in March 2017 to acquire a new car. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) VWFS can be 
held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car 
was new at acquisition it is reasonable that Miss S would expect it to be free from 
faults including minor defects. Miss S has explained that the car had a knocking 
noise that was present from the outset. This was reported and investigated more 
than once in 2017 but no fault was found. Miss S has explained she has a good 
knowledge of cars and thought the issue was with the driveshafts and the dealer has 
explained that these were replaced to appease Miss S. On balance, while I accept 
that Miss S reported the knocking noise on several occasions and repairs were 
carried out, as there is no evidence of a fault I do not find I can say this issue means 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Following the repair, the knocking noise was still present, and I can see this was 
investigated on further occasions but still no fault found. I note the comment Miss S 
has made about being allowed to reject the car after the first repair attempt.. But as 
no fault was found before the repair - and subsequently there hasnt been a fault 
identified to show the knocking noise was caused by a fault present at the point of 
supply - I do not find I can say Miss S has the right to reject as there wasnt evidence 
to show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss S complained about the parts used in the repair and the dealer has explained 
the situation. While I understand that Miss S is upset by the actions of the dealer 
regarding the repair and other issues such as the damage and subsequent repair at 
an unauthorised repairer, this complaint is against VWFS and I cannot hold it 
responsible for the ongoing actions of the dealer after the initial transaction. I can 
hold it liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply or was mis sold but I do 
not find that I have enough evidence to say this was the case.
Miss S car then experienced an issue with the radio and heated windscreen. This 
was initially investigated in October 2018 and the fault not found. However 
subsequently an issue was identified, and a repair undertaken at no cost to Miss S. I 
have nothing to suggest the repair wasnt a successful remedy. I also note the time 
that had passed before this issue was raised and I have nothing to suggest that the 
issue was present from the outset.
Miss S has raised other issues and the dealer has provided a response to explain the 
actions taken. While I understand why Miss S is upset by the issues she experienced 
having acquired a new car, I do not find that I have evidence there were faults 
present at the point of supply which meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Therefore, I do not uphold this part of Miss S complaint.
Miss S is also upset by the response she has received to her subject access request 
and I note that she has been informed of the role of the ICO. She has also 
complained about the thoroughness of VWFS investigation into her complaint and 
noted VWFS issued its final response to her within a few days. While I note the 
comments made, VWFS discussed the issue with the dealer and based on the 
evidence it had it decided not to uphold Miss S complaint. So, while I note Miss S comments, I do not find that VWFS did anything wrong in its response to Miss S 
complaint.
Overall, as I do not find I have enough evidence to say there were faults with the car present 
from acquisition, I do not find I can say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Therefore, while I understand why Miss S is upset by the issues she experienced I 
do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint against 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman