DRN-2178627
The complaint
Mr H complains that FS247 Ltd (trading as Fingerprint Financial Planning) failed to act on his 
instruction to cancel his agreement and continued taking servicing fees for an additional 
period of two months.
What happened
Mr H and his wife both used FS247 to advise on, and administer, their pension savings. 
Mrs H has raised a separate complaint relating to her agreement with FS247 that I will also 
be considering. So this decision will only deal with Mr Hs agreement with the firm. But 
naturally since the matter he is complaining about is identical to that of his wifes complaint, 
the decisions on the two complaints will be along similar lines. 
Mr H had a relationship with FS247 for a number of years before he decided to change his 
servicing arrangements. Throughout that time Mr H had been looked after by a specific 
advisor, although it is clear that advisor was supported more generally by other colleagues 
working at FS247. Mr Hs named advisor left the employment of FS247 in the autumn of 
2019. At that time FS247 appointed a new advisor to work with Mr H, and they had a 
telephone discussion with him and his wife, before agreeing to set up a face to face meeting 
in January 2020.
Around three weeks later, in October 2019, Mr H sent an email to FS247. The content of that 
email forms much of the substance of this complaint so I will deal with it in more detail as 
part of my findings below. But Mr H says that email was intended, and was sufficient, to give 
the necessary seven days notice of the termination of his agreement with FS247 in line with 
the agreement hed signed. So he considers FS247 should have stopped collecting its 
servicing fees from his pension investments at that time.
Mr H sent a further email to FS247 in January 2020. In that email he made it clear that he 
considered his earlier email to have terminated his relationship and requested a refund of 
the fees that had been charged for the past two months. Around that time FS247 received 
notification from the product providers that a new advisor had been appointed by Mr H and it 
ceased collecting any further fees.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think that Mr Hs email to 
FS247 had been sufficiently clear to make the firm aware that he wanted to end his 
agreement with immediate effect. Instead she thought that it was reasonable for FS247 to 
await further instructions from Mr Hs new advisor for the transfer of the servicing 
arrangements. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by FS247. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
FS247 has provided us with a great amount of detail about the background to the advisor 
who looked after Mr H leaving the company. I dont think much of that is relevant here. But 
what is important is that shortly after that advisor left the company Mr H made the decision to 
transfer the servicing of his pension investments to the advisors new company. I am sure 
that decision was disappointing for FS247. But Mr H was entirely at liberty to make that 
decision and give the requisite notice to FS247.
I have considered carefully what Mr H said in the email he sent to FS247 in October 2019. 
For clarity I reproduce the full text below (save for some changes to protect the personal 
details of Mr and Mrs H, and the advisor.) The email read;
Thank you for your time a couple of weeks ago and for the update on the companys 
strategy  there is certainly a lot going on!
[Mrs H] and I have decided that we shall retain [advisor]s services going forward. He 
has delivered an excellent service thus far and as our requirements are relatively 
straight forward now, there is little reason for us to change.
Im sure that [advisor] will be in touch with you to arrange whatever needs to be 
done, but do let us know if you need anything from us in the interim.
Very best of luck going forward to you and the team.
I think by the content of the email Mr H made it clear that his intentions were not to take on 
the management of his pension investments himself. His expectation was that they would be 
transferred to the new firm of the advisor so they could continue the relationship with the 
advisor that they had enjoyed for a number of years before. I have considered that at the 
time the providers who held Mr Hs investments required him to use a financial advisor for 
some, or all, or the services they offered. Whilst I accept that Mr H would potentially have 
been able to move those investments to a self-administered service, that wouldnt have been 
a seamless process.So I dont think it was unreasonable for FS247 to await further contact from Mr Hs chosen 
advisor regarding the movement of his servicing arrangement. I dont think that the email 
suggested that Mr H expected his arrangement to be terminated immediately  so I think it 
was reasonable for FS247 to continue its servicing activities on his pension investments 
whilst the transfer was being arranged by his new advisor.
I have considered that FS247 says that it didnt undertake any activity on the investments 
after the email had been sent. But I dont think that means FS247 failed to provide a normal 
level of service. In the background it would be monitoring market activities to enable it to 
react appropriately across all its clients portfolios. A lack of activity on Mr Hs investments 
doesnt necessarily imply a lack of attention.
I understand that Mr Hs advisor informed the product providers that he was taking over the 
servicing of the investments in early January 2020. At that point, when the providers notified 
FS247 of that transfer, the firm says it stopped collecting the fees it had been due. And I 
think that is a reasonable reflection of what should have happened.
On balance I dont think the email Mr H sent to FS247 in October 2019 was sufficiently clear 
to make the firm aware that the servicing relationship should be terminated immediately. 
Instead I think it was reasonable for FS247 to await a request from Mr Hs new advisor to 
transfer that arrangement, and to collect the servicing fees it was due in the interim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
FS247 Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman