DRN-3968025
The complaint
Miss P complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VM) has treated her unfairly in 
relation to goods she purchased with finance it provided.
What happened
Miss P purchased goods from a third party supplier using finance provided by VM. Miss P 
then changed her mind as she found the goods to buy cheaper elsewhere. Therefore Miss P 
called VM to try to cancel the order, but it had already been despatched so she couldnt 
cancel it then and there. According to Miss P, VM said she could hand the goods back to the 
delivery person and that would cancel the order, so Miss P agreed to do this.
However, the goods were delivered when Miss P was not at home, but a relative of hers was 
home, (Miss P had already let her relative know that she was expecting the goods and that 
when they arrived they were to be rejected). The relative answered the door to the delivery 
person who handed them the goods, then they (the relative) handed the goods straight back. 
And that was the end of it as far as Miss P was concerned.
Therefore later Miss P was surprised to find that VM is still holding her to the finance 
agreement for goods she tried to cancel, did not accept delivery of and which were returned 
in any event. Miss P believes there has been a breach of contract which she can hold both 
the supplier and VM to account for. Miss P complained to the supplier and when she got 
nowhere with it she complained to VM. 
VMs stance is that as far as it can tell the goods were delivered to Miss P and never 
returned as she indicates. It points out that there is both tracking and photographic evidence 
that backs up its stance. At first in a phone call with it, Miss P told VM that she did not know 
who the goods had been handed to, but whoever it was had handed the goods straight back. 
Later in the same call Miss P said that a specific relative had taken the goods from the 
delivery person but as soon as they realised what the goods were they handed them back. It 
suggested therefore Miss P has given an inconsistent version of some of the events.
For all of these reasons VM concluded there had been no breach of contract and as a result 
it was entitled to hold Miss P to the terms of the contract. Therefore it did not uphold Miss Ps 
complaint.
Dissatisfied Miss P complained to our service. 
Once Miss Ps complaint was with our service she provided further information. Miss P said 
she had requested copies of the recordings of the calls between her and VM. Miss P 
considers that these call recordings are crucial. She tells us in one of the calls she asked 
that the delivery be signed for and VM agreed to this. Therefore she reasons that since no 
one signed for receipt of the goods then there is no evidence that the goods were ever 
delivered to her notwithstanding the tracking and photographic evidence. Miss Ps view is 
that her complaint cannot be properly looked at without the call recordings being listened to.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Our investigator did not 
recommend that Miss Ps complaint be upheld.
VM accepted our investigators recommendation Miss P did not. Miss P repeated her 
previous stance and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Miss Ps very strong view is that I need to listen to the recordings of the 
phone calls in order to decide this complaint fairly. I also recognise Miss P thinks this service 
should have gathered this evidence when she told us to. Even though we told her we did not 
consider this evidence relevant, and we already had notes of what was said in the calls in 
any event.  I acknowledge that Miss P is disappointed that we have not followed her 
instructions on this point. Our service is independent of both consumers and the businesses 
they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for consumers, nor do we take 
instructions either from consumers or businesses or allow either party to direct the course of 
our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and 
impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a 
complaint. So although Ive noted Miss Ps instructions following those instructions is not 
something that Im able to do, because I dont represent either Miss P or VM in this 
complaint, rather Im impartial.
My role is to look into the evidence Ive got and give an impartial opinion on what is fair and 
reasonable in this complaint. In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have 
regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes 
of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
Miss P and VM disagree about many of the key aspects of this complaint where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The parties agree that Miss P and VM entered into a finance agreement which Miss P 
intended to use to pay for the goods until she changed her mind and wanted to cancel the 
agreement. The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
In bringing her complaint Miss P relies on amongst other things the rights she considers she 
has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Miss P contends and VM accepts that because of the 
type of credit she used she can potentially benefit from Section 75.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against VM provided certain 
conditions are met. 
Further, Miss P also benefits from the provisions of the CRA. Amongst other things the CRA 
implies a term into the contract of sale for the goods, that the goods must be delivered 
without undue delay and not more than 30 days after the day on which the contract was 
entered into. Moreover the contract of sale itself provides that the goods should be provided to her in any event.  Miss Ps position is that the contract of sale has been breached 
because the goods were not delivered to her. VMs position is that the goods were properly 
delivered and therefore it is entitled to hold Miss P liable under their finance agreement. So 
the question of whether the goods were delivered is the key issue here.
VM points to the tracking and the photographic evidence which demonstrates the goods 
were delivered. There is nothing in that evidence which shows that the person who 
answered the door demonstrated that theyd not accept the goods, quite the opposite.
As Ive mentioned above I know Miss P places great emphasis on the fact that the goods 
were not signed for therefore there is no evidence, in her opinion that the goods were 
delivered. But if I followed her line or reasoning I would need to completely discount the 
tracking and photographic evidence and I dont see why that would be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
VM has told us it no longer asks for goods to be signed for on delivery rather it relies on the 
tracking and the photo. Even if VM said as Miss P suggests that it would ask for a signature, 
I dont think that changes things. The question is whether on balance the goods were 
delivered. And for the reasons Ive gone through above, there is enough information to show 
that on the balance of probabilities they were.
I dont think I need to look into whether, as VM suggests, Miss Ps account of some of the 
events is inconsistent because Im satisfied the goods were delivered based on the points 
Ive gone through above. 
It follows because I find that most likely the goods were delivered to Miss P I find it fair and 
reasonable that VM can hold Miss P liable under the contract. In other words I dont agree 
that VM is acting unfairly in continuing to ask Miss P to keep to her obligations to it under 
their finance contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman