DRN-3043416
The complaint
Mrs T complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) havent treated her fairly after she 
used her credit card and current account to pay a company to book return flights to Thailand 
which were never provided.
Mrs T has been represented throughout her complaint with this service and in her 
interactions with NBS and other third parties by a Mr G. When I refer in this decision to 
things said or done by Mrs T then this should be taken to include things said or done by Mr 
G also.  
Background
I made my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021, which fully describes and 
explains the background to the complaint and my provisional findings. All parties to the 
complaint have a copy of this so I will not repeat it in full here. In summary however, Mrs T 
used her NBS credit card and a bank transfer to book flights with an airline through a travel 
agent Ill call B. Her credit card payment went to a different company, C. 
B went bust and the airline cancelled Mrs Ts booking, saying it hadnt been paid and that B 
hadnt been authorised to make bookings with it in any event. Mrs T approached NBS for 
help with the situation but was very unhappy with how she was treated. In the end she 
received a refund of the amount shed paid on her credit card but not the amount shed paid 
by bank transfer and additional costs shed incurred.
In my provisional decision I found:
Mrs Ts booking had not been covered under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) for technical reasons involving her credit card payment having gone to 
C instead of B. Specifically, the fact C had taken the credit card payment instead of 
B, meant there was not a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place, which was a 
pre-condition for a section 75 claim. An in-depth analysis of the situation did not turn 
up any exceptions which might have applied and which would have allowed Mrs T to 
make a valid claim against NBS.
NBS had been right to charge back the credit card transaction and refund Mrs T this 
amount, as her scenario was a typical one in which a chargeback would generally be 
successful: she had paid for goods or services which hadnt been received.
It wasnt relevant whether or not Mrs T had authorised the credit card payment to be 
made to C, because if she had not authorised it then NBSs responsibility would have 
been to refund the payment, which it already had.
The bank transfer was essentially made at Mrs Ts risk, although I might have 
expected the staff in the branch to be alert to signs that a transfer was in connection 
with a scam or fraud. In Mrs Ts case I didnt think suspicions would have been raised 
about the transfer or its legitimacy, and so I didnt find NBS had any liability with 
regard to it. There was very little it could do once the payment had been made.
Regarding the customer service Mrs T had received, I agreed NBS had fallen short 
on occasions. There had been delays at various points, it had sent some confusing 
communications and had struggled to keep up with Mr Gs communications meaning 
it had overlooked correspondence from him. It had also taken longer than it should 
have done to respond to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
I agreed Mrs T had not received a good level of service during a branch visit 
(although she had been given broadly the right answers to her questions). Her 
problem wasnt given enough time and attention and she was treated unfairly as a 
result. I understood how Mrs T could have felt discriminated against but I considered 
what had happened was more likely to be a case of general poor customer service.  
I thought the amount of compensation already offered to Mrs T, believed at that time 
to be £450, was a fair amount to cover the customer service issues. I was unable to 
make an award in respect of any impact on Mr G, as he was not the complainant.
I asked all parties to respond to my provisional decision. Both NBS and Mr G, on behalf of 
Mrs T, had further comments.
NBS noted that it had in fact paid £600 compensation in relation to the customer service 
issues, as Mr G had continued to correspond with it in respect of failings surrounding the 
DSAR, for which a total of £200 had ended up being paid (not £50 as I had believed in my 
provisional decision). It supplied evidence of this money being offered and paid and queried 
whether this meant the complaint should not be upheld at all given I had said £450 was 
enough.
Mr G, on behalf of Mrs T, submitted several sets of submissions following the provisional 
decision. I wont relate everything he has said verbatim, but the central points could be 
summarised as follows:
NBS had in fact declined the initial credit card payment to C and asked Mrs T to call it 
to discuss. She had done so and she and her son had explained the transaction. 
NBS had then allowed the payment to go through to C, knowing that it was to fund a 
booking with B. This made NBS responsible for the losses which had ensued and for 
the DCS chain being broken. NBS would have known Mrs Ts consumer rights would 
be affected.
Three witnesses (Mrs T, her friend, and himself) agreed that NBS had discriminated 
against Mrs T, and the way she was treated was obviously unacceptable. It was 
outrageous that Mrs T had been put on the phone to a corporate department in the 
middle of the branch.
The policy NBS had for vulnerable consumers had been ignored.
£450 compensation was not enough to recognise the impact on Mrs T.
Mr G didnt argue with the technical position on the section 75 claim, but didnt think this was 
relevant in the face of NBSs errors. Mr G was also very unhappy that it had come to light 
that NBS had failed to provide all the information it should have when he had requested a 
DSAR on Mrs Ts behalf (in particular, information pertaining to the call she had about the 
credit card payment). This is a new issue which has come to light after my provisional 
decision and I dont think its appropriate for me to make a determination on this. NBS should have an opportunity to address it as part of a separate complaint. I therefore make no 
comment on it here.
NBS was asked to comment on the phone call it had had with Mrs T prior to it allowing the 
credit card transaction to be made to C. It said that the transaction had flagged up as 
potential fraud. They had gone through security with Mrs T and her son, and she and her 
son had explained it was £1,400 to be paid to B. This had satisfied them that the transaction 
was genuine.
The case has now been returned to me to review again.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has argued with the technical reasons I outlined in my provisional decision 
which I concluded meant NBS wasnt liable to Mrs T under section 75 of the CCA. Ive 
reviewed that position again and my views have not changed and remain the same as 
outlined in the first bullet point of the Background section of this final decision. 
Ive carefully thought about the points Mr G has made. I will comment on his points around 
the credit card payment first.
Significance of the authorisation phone call with NBS
The evidence which has now come to light shows NBS did have some concerns about the 
initial credit card transaction because it thought Mrs T might not have authorised it. It 
declined the attempt and asked Mrs T to contact it to discuss. Mrs T called and she and her 
son spoke to NBS, which was satisfied the transaction was genuine. NBS appears to accept 
that it knew at this point that the purchase was with B. It says it doesnt know whether it 
would have been able to see that the transaction was actually going to C. I think it probably 
could see that the transaction was going to C, but I dont think it matters for reasons Ill 
explain.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
Lack of authority to pay C
Mrs T points out that she hadnt agreed or expected to pay C. Whether she did or didnt, the
extent of NBSs liability if Mrs T had not authorised the card payment to C, would be to
refund the card payment (which it already has, via a chargeback). For the purposes of
section 75, I cant substitute her intended payee for the actual payee. So whether or not
Mrs T authorised the card payment doesnt make a difference in this case.
Mr G has argued that NBSs apparent negligence in not spotting that Mrs T wanted to pay B 
but was actually paying C when it spoke to her to carry out further checks, means it should 
be responsible for everything else she ended up paying B.
I think its clear that Mrs T wanted to use B to book her tickets. She had used them before 
successfully and it seems she trusted them. They were able to accept payment by bank 
transfer. The evidence suggests B did not have their own facilities to take card payments at 
the time or Mrs Ts booking. If they did, then Id have thought they would have used these 
and not Cs. If NBS had refused to allow Mrs T to pay C then I think she wouldnt have been 
able to pay B directly by card. Its likely she would have paid B by bank transfer instead. As I said in my provisional decision, such a payment would not have attracted much in the way of 
consumer protection and Mrs T therefore would have stood to lose everything when B went 
bust. 
Put simply, if NBS had declined to make the credit card payment to C then Mrs T could have 
been even worse-off. So I dont find that NBSs failure to spot or query the discrepancy 
between the company Mrs T said she was paying, and the company she was actually 
paying, makes any difference here.
As I said in my provisional decision, this doesnt mean that what has happened to Mrs T is 
right. She should have received the flights she paid for. But Im looking strictly at what NBSs 
obligations were to her.
Customer Service
Regarding the question of NBSs customer service and the allegation that Mrs T was 
discriminated against, there is not much I can add to what Ive already said. There seems to 
be no major disagreement on the account of events, but how those events should be 
interpreted is disputed. 
Mrs T and Mr G interpreted what happened as an example of discrimination. I explained in 
my provisional decision that I thought what had happened was an example of poor customer 
service. I could however understand if Mrs T felt that the reason she received bad service 
was because she was being discriminated against.
Having looked at the available evidence again, I remain of this view. The staff at the branch 
appear to have been indifferent to Mrs Ts problem, and not very helpful. Not much thought 
seems to have been given to whether she needed additional assistance. Beyond that, I dont 
think I can draw any conclusions. I dont know exactly what was said and although I have 
some evidence in the form of Mrs Ts testimony which has been related by Mr G, this isnt 
terribly specific. Ultimately, I dont think its open to me to make a finding that NBSs 
treatment of Mrs T in the branch was discriminatory.
Mr G has said the rest of the poor customer service NBS has provided during the course of 
Mrs Ts dispute over the transactions and the complaint itself, is discriminatory too. As with 
the customer service Mrs T received at the branch, I dont think there is enough evidence for 
me to make a finding that the poor service Mrs T received at times from other parts of NBS 
was discriminatory. The sense I get, having considered carefully the sequence of events and 
correspondence, is that most of the deficient customer service was likely to have been borne 
of confusion between departments and individuals at NBS, which was to some extent 
exacerbated by the frequency and volume of Mr Gs communications. I can understand why 
this led to Mr G and Mrs T becoming increasingly frustrated, but I dont see evidence of any 
discrimination or malicious intent behind NBSs service failings.
Ive thought about the NBS vulnerable customer policy Mr G has referred to, and which he 
says has been breached. Mr Gs explained that Mrs Ts difficulties with English make her 
vulnerable. The most relevant part of the policy to this that I can see, refers to NBS 
supporting customers where English is a second language, and notes that many branches 
offer advice and information in languages other than English. The policy is somewhat short 
on details. It doesnt say, for example, how it is that NBS would support customers with a 
primary language other than English. Its not disputed that NBS didnt provide Mrs T with any 
additional support, but I think this goes back to my finding that she received generally poor 
service. I note Mrs T, in her dealings with NBS, was normally with an English-speaker such 
as the friend who accompanied her to the branch, or her son during the authorisation call 
about the transaction to C. And since then she has been represented by Mr G. In the circumstances I dont think NBS would necessarily have seen a need to provide the 
additional support outlined in its policy.
Mr G has again referred to the large amount of time spent on untangling the matter, for 
example two whole days spent on the phone. While I dont doubt Mr G and Mrs T have spent 
time and effort on this matter, Im unable to compensate Mr G for his time and effort as I 
have already explained; I can only make such an award to the complainant. 
In my provisional decision I said that £450 was a reasonable amount of compensation, 
having considered NBSs service failings in the round. My view is unchanged on this point, 
and it has come to light since then that NBS has actually paid £600 compensation. So it 
follows that I wont be asking them to do any more than they have already done.
NBS has suggested this means the complaint should not be upheld at all, but this isnt 
correct. Ive still found there were failings in the customer service NBS provided during the 
course of Mrs Ts requests for assistance with her purchase from B and the request for the 
DSAR (specifically, delays). NBS has now provided more compensation than I would have 
awarded in respect of those failings, had such compensation not already been offered, but 
that was not the situation at the point this service took on the case for investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint, but I do not award any further 
redress than the amount Nationwide Building Society has already offered as a remedy. I 
understand this has already been paid, however if it has not then Nationwide Building 
Society must ensure this is done.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman