DRN-3399338
The complaint
Mr R has complained that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline) has 
recorded a default on his credit file and registered a marker against him at CIFAS  the 
national fraud database.
Whats happened?
Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with Startline in July 2014, to buy a car. 
Roughly a week later, Mr R noticed several problems with the car. He reported them to 
Startline and the dealership which sold him the car.
Over the next few months, a series of back and forth interactions between Mr R, Startline 
and the dealership took place regarding the disputed issues with the car. During this time, all 
parties appear to have made proposals to try and resolve matters. But a resolution was 
never found.
Whilst the dispute was ongoing, contractual payments towards the hire purchase agreement 
were missed, which caused arrears to build on Mr Rs account. As the arrears werent 
cleared, Startline made the decision to issue Mr R with a default notice in January 2015. 
Startline terminated the hire purchase agreement in February 2015 and recorded a default 
on Mr Rs credit file.
Shortly after Startline had terminated the hire purchase agreement, it instructed a third-party 
to recover the car. However, the car wasnt recovered until October 2018  more than three 
years after recovery action began.
Because of the difficulties Startline faced when trying to recover the car, it reported Mr R to 
CIFAS, and a fraud marker was registered against him in December 2015. The marker was 
for misuse of facility due to the theft of an asset.
When Mr R complained to Startline about the default and CIFAS marker, it said:
The default marker was applied correctly, as a result of Mr R failing to clear the 
arrears which had built up on his account. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it would 
reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Rs account to zero and update the credit 
reference agencies to confirm the default had been satisfied.
The CIFAS marker was applied correctly when Mr R failed to make the car available 
for collection after the hire purchase agreement had been terminated.
What Startline has told us:
Mr R contacted Startline and the dealership in July 2014, to explain he was having 
issues with the car  specifically, with the air conditioning, the gearbox and the 
paintwork. He asked the dealership to cover the cost of the repairs or to swap the 
car. Shortly after this, Mr R provided a quote for the repairs which hed obtained from 
an independent garage.
The dealership said it wanted to see the car before agreeing to anything.
Further conversations took place between Startline, Mr R and the dealership to try 
and find a resolution. However, Mr R kept changing his mind on what he wanted to 
resolve matters. For example, in mid-August 2019 he wanted to reject or swap the 
car, but then he changed his mind to say that he wanted to keep the car and have 
the dealership pay for the repairs.
Startline told Mr R that it wouldnt authorise repairs to be completed elsewhere. But it 
offered another resolution. It said that if Mr R returned the car to the dealership, it 
would unwind the finance agreement and refund his deposit. It asked Mr R to get in 
touch if he wanted to accept this proposal, but it didnt hear back from him for a while.
Arrears started to build up on Mr Rs account very early on, but the only time it was 
able to speak to Mr R after the initial interactions in July and August 2014, was later 
on in November 2014. Mr R told Startline that hed been in hospital but would look to 
clear the arrears. A new direct debit mandate was set-up but then there were further 
missed payments and Startline decided to terminate the hire purchase agreement in 
February 2015. It recorded a default against Mr Rs account at this time, to provide 
an accurate reflection of the payment history on the account.
Between February 2015 and October 2018, it instructed different third-party 
repossession agents to collect the car, but without success. Startline believes this 
was down to Mr R being evasive. For example, in January 2017, Mr R contacted it to 
say hed been keeping the car in storage until Startline reimbursed him for any 
financial loss hed incurred since the hire purchase agreement was taken out. On 
other occasions, he provided different versions of events, including telling the 
repossession agents that the car was in Birmingham. At one point, he said he wanted 
to be taken to court and wouldnt speak about the matter any further.
Because of the difficulties it faced in recovering the car, Startline reported Mr R to 
CIFAS and a marker was recorded under the misuse of facility category  with the 
specific reason being a theft of asset. It also started legal proceedings and obtained 
a return of goods order in June 2018. A few months later, it successfully retrieved 
the car, sold it and used the sale proceeds to reduce the outstanding balance on    
Mr Rs account. The hire purchase agreement was then closed and Startline 
confirmed that it wouldnt pursue Mr R for the shortfall.
Startline is satisfied that the default and CIFAS markers were applied correctly. In 
relation to the CIFAS marker, it said that it legally owned the car. So, upon 
termination of the hire purchase agreement, Mr R was required to make the car 
available for collection  yet he failed to do this and over time was extremely evasive. 
This is despite the many requests and attempts by Startline to recover the car. 
Because the car was not returned and Mr R no longer had permission to retain the 
car, Startline believes it was right to say the car had essentially been stolen.
What Mr R has told us:
The car he obtained on finance had several issues from the start.
When he raised these issues with the dealership and Startline, he was treated poorly. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached about how to sort out the issues with the 
car, he was told the finance agreement could be cancelled and he would get his 
deposit back. But this didnt happen. After this, Startline started to take payments 
from his bank account via direct debit.
He contacted Startline and asked for any monies to be returned, but this didnt 
happen.
Because of all the problems with the car and his dealings with Startline and the 
dealership, his health suffered.
He recalls receiving contact from a company who asked for the whereabouts of the 
car. He confirmed that he would return the car to Startline as soon as any monies 
owed to him were returned. He was also contacted at some point by the local police, but they said this was a civil matter and ceased their involvement.
He received correspondence from a bailiff linked to the court informing him a court 
order had been issued. He says he didnt know anything about court action but after 
visiting court, he arranged for the car to be delivered to Startline. 
It was only after the car had been returned that he found out default and CIFAS 
markers had been applied against him.
Hes received correspondence from Startline confirming he doesnt owe anything 
further on the hire purchase agreement.
Both markers have had a massive impact on him as they have ruined his credit 
rating, resulting in him being unable to obtain credit elsewhere.
What did our investigator say?
He accepted there was an ongoing dispute about the condition of the car linked to the 
finance agreement but pointed out that Mr R was still obliged to meet his contractual 
payments. As Mr R had failed to make these contractual payments, our investigator was 
satisfied that Startline had fairly defaulted his account.
However, our investigator wasnt persuaded that Startline had done enough to justify the 
CIFAS marker. So, he recommended that Startline remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr R 
£250 in compensation for the trouble and upset the marker had caused him.
Both parties disagreed with our investigator. Mr R said the CIFAS marker had a significant 
impact on him and mentioned again how it affected his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. 
Startline said that Mr R had kept possession of the car for several years after the hire 
purchase agreement had been terminated, and it believes Mr R intentionally withheld the 
car. So, it maintained that the CIFAS marker was correctly applied.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 10 March 2022. Ill set out what I said below.
Default marker
Its my understanding that the default marker is no longer on Mr Rs credit reference file, due 
to the passage of time. But Ive still considered whether it was fair for Startline to apply it in 
2015.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Rs account was fairly defaulted when 
contractual payments were repeatedly missed, and arrears accrued on the account that 
were not cleared. I do appreciate that there was a breakdown in the relationship between the 
parties, caused by a dispute about the quality of the car Mr R obtained on finance. Its clear 
that both parties have different perspectives on what was said and done once Mr R raised 
his concerns about the car. But Mr R still had an obligation to ensure he was maintaining the 
contractual payments on the hire purchase agreement  even as the dispute was ongoing. 
From the evidence Ive seen, that doesnt appear to have happened.
Im also satisfied that the timeframe within which the account was defaulted was reasonable. 
It seems that contractual payments were missed from the start of the hire purchase 
agreement. But I can see that after Mr R got in touch with Startline in November 2014, it 
hoped that the accrued arrears would be cleared and contractual payments would be 
maintained going forwards  a new direct debit mandate was set-up to assist with this. So 
even though several contractual payments had already been missed at this stage, I think it was reasonable for Startline to give Mr R the opportunity to rectify the account. However, the 
evidence Ive seen shows that contractual payments were missed again and, by this stage, I 
think the relationship between Startline and Mr R had broken down to the point where 
Startline couldnt reasonably expect any further payments to be made. So, Im satisfied that 
it was fair for Startline to default the account in February 2015.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Startline sent a default notice to the address it held 
on record  which is the same address as the one listed on the finance agreement and held 
by our Service  as it was required to do. Its possible that Mr R didnt receive the default 
notice for one reason or another but, on balance, Im not satisfied that Startline failed in its 
obligations here.
CIFAS marker
I understand that the CIFAS marker was applied in December 2015. As it has been more 
than six years since then, the marker should no longer be visible. So, just as with the default 
marker, there is no need for me to reach a decision on whether the marker should be 
removed. But again, I have considered whether it was fair for Startline to apply the marker in 
the first place.
The CIFAS marker was for misuse of facility. Startline says that there had been a theft of an 
asset (the car associated to the finance agreement) because Mr R failed to ensure the car 
was recoverable after the finance agreement was terminated.
Startline needed to have more than a suspicion or concern in this respect. It needs to be 
able to show that it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had 
been committed or attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported 
to the authorities. The question is whether Startline had sufficient grounds to conclude that 
Mr R intentionally attempted to commit fraud  in other words, did he intend to steal the car. 
To make a reasonable decision on this, I need to look at the wider picture.
This entire matter began with a dispute about the quality of the car Mr R purchased under 
the finance agreement in 2014. There were unsuccessful attempts to resolve the dispute 
from both parties and, unfortunately, the situation escalated  ending in Mr R saying he 
would not return the car to Startline until he had been fully reimbursed for any losses hed 
incurred.
I understand that the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement required Mr R to 
return the car upon termination of the agreement. And I accept that, on face value, Mr R 
appears to have disregarded this requirement. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
Mr Rs actions helped matters. But having considered everything that happened, Im not 
persuaded that the steps he took were an attempt to commit an act of fraud or financial 
crime. I dont think he intended to steal the car. Instead, I think his actions were a misguided 
attempt at resolving a dispute that, to Mr R at least, hadnt been settled in the way it 
shouldve. 
In support of this finding, Ive seen that the matter was reported to the police, and they ruled 
it a civil, rather than criminal matter. And I note that Mr R returned the car to Startline after 
court action took place in 2018. If Mr Rs sole intention from the outset was to steal the car 
and never return it, Im not sure that he wouldve returned it to Startline regardless of 
whether thered been any court proceedings.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Startline had sufficient grounds to apply the marker, or that 
the marker was fair. The marker itself should have dropped off by now, due to the amount of time thats passed 
since it was registered. But I can still consider the impact of the marker and whether it would 
be fair for Startline to do anything further to put things right.
Mr R has said that the CIFAS marker has meant that hes been unable to obtain credit 
elsewhere and has caused him trouble and upset. Im very sorry to hear about any negative 
impact on Mr R. However, on this occasion, I dont think it would be fair to require Startline to 
take any further steps. This is because, but for the CIFAS marker, I think that Mr R would still 
have had a similar experience.
Mr R has given us some correspondence from a finance company which says:
Unfortunately, our decision has not changed and until the CIFAS marker and default are 
removed we will not be able to assist you
I think this shows that the default was as much of a concern to this finance company as the 
CIFAS marker and, from what I know about credit and lending, I think that other financial 
institutions wouldve most likely taken the same position. As Ive already explained, I dont 
think that Mr Rs account was defaulted unfairly or unreasonably. For these reasons, Im not 
persuaded that the registration of the CIFAS marker caused any additional detriment to Mr R 
when it comes to things such as consequential loss.
It's clear to me that Mr R feels very strongly about this matter. Hes told us about the impact 
the situation has had on his health. And hes explained that hes incurred a financial loss in 
terms of the car he part-exchanged, the deposit he paid and the contractual payments he 
made. Id like to assure Mr R that Ive taken all of this into account and thought very carefully 
about what hes said. However, Im persuaded that there have been mistakes on both sides 
here. I dont think that Startline applied the CIFAS marker fairly. But Mr R was contractually 
obliged to maintain repayments under the hire purchase agreement and return the car to 
Startline when the agreement was terminated, yet he didnt. Unfortunately, the situation has 
escalated and gone unresolved for many years.
In an attempt the bring the matter to a close, Startline sold the car after it was recovered in 
2018, using the sale proceeds to reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Rs account then 
writing-off the shortfall. Overall, Im satisfied that this action was sufficient to address its own 
error and the trouble and upset it caused, as well as any financial loss Mr R may have 
incurred during the dispute. And Im not minded to award any additional compensation on 
this occasion.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided that Startline has done enough to 
resolve this complaint, so it need not do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Startline did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr R replied to say that he isnt happy with my provisional decision and doesnt think its fair. 
In summary, he said:
I havent read the case correctly or considered all the evidence.
Startline cancelled the finance agreement so there shouldnt have been any money 
owed to it. He said he would return the car to Startline once it had given him his 
money back. But Startline sent agents to collect the car without returning his money, 
and they went to the wrong property. This is the reason the CIFAS marker was 
loaded. He begged Startline to remove the marker, but it refused to do so. So, it has impacted on his life for many years and now I have provisionally decided that it 
wasnt fair for Startline to register the CIFAS marker.
Startline ruined his credit reference file and he couldnt open an account elsewhere.
Hes lost in excess of £3,000.
This situation has left him in financial hardship.
He believes he should be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to reassure Mr R that I considered all the evidence provided by both 
parties in reaching my provisional decision. Im sorry to hear that Mr R wasnt happy with 
what I said, and I can fully appreciate how strongly he feels about this matter. But, in 
responding to my provisional decision, I dont think hes given me any new information that I 
havent already had the opportunity to consider or that would change my mind. 
As I explained in my provisional decision:
Startline offered to cancel the finance agreement as a means of resolving the dispute 
but, ultimately, it wasnt cancelled because Startline didnt hear back from Mr R for a 
while. Im satisfied that Mr Rs account was fairly defaulted in February 2015.
Im not persuaded that Startline had sufficient grounds to apply the CIFAS marker, or 
that the CIFAS marker was fair. The marker itself should have dropped off by now. 
But for the CIFAS marker, I still think Mr R would have had a similar experience in 
terms of opening new accounts and consequential loss.
I understand that this situation has had a significant impact on Mr R. But I think there 
have been mistakes on both sides here and Im satisfied that the action Startline has 
already taken to bring the matter to a close is sufficient to address its own error and 
the trouble and upset it caused, as well as any financial loss Mr R may have incurred 
during the dispute.
As neither party has given me any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED has done enough to resolve this complaint, so it need not do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman