DRN-3973520
The complaint
Mrs T complains about a mortgage current account with Barclays Bank UK PLC on which 
she and her ex-husband are named. She says her ex-husband opened the account without 
her knowledge, so she shouldnt be liable for the debt on it. Shes also unhappy with the 
service and lack of support she has received from Barclays.
What happened
In 2007, Mrs T and her then husband took out a Woolwich flexible mortgage. Woolwich was 
part of Barclays. On the banks recommendation, they borrowed around £325,000 over a 
term of 17 years, payable on a capital and interest repayment basis. 
The mortgage came with a mortgage current account (MCA), which is a secured overdraft 
facility on which Mrs T and her ex-husband could draw when they needed to.
The mortgage has been in and out of arrears over the years. In around early 2020, Mrs T 
and her ex-husband separated. Mrs T was subsequently in contact with Barclays about the 
mortgage; she was struggling to afford the monthly payments and looking for help to reduce 
them. She says she also then found out about the MCA, having previously known nothing 
about it.
Mrs T made a complaint about the MCA, because she didnt accept that shed agreed to it 
when the mortgage was taken out in 2007. She also complained about the service Barclays 
had provided, and in particular about not being able to get help with the mortgage in person 
at a branch. She said Barclays had caused her a huge amount of stress and anxiety.
Barclays said Mrs T could apply for documents relating to the opening of the MCA on its 
website. It went on to say that it had limited branch appointments available because of 
restrictions put in place during the coronavirus pandemic but, in any event, Mrs T needed to 
speak to a specialist team, which can only be contacted by phone. It accepted it had made a 
mistake in booking Mrs T an appointment with a staff member who couldnt help her with her 
mortgage. It apologised, and credited Mr and Mrs Ts joint account with £100 by way of 
compensation. 
Mrs T got in touch with us. Our Investigator concluded that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service could only look into part of Mrs Ts complaint. She said Mrs T had left it too late to 
complain that she didnt know about or agree to the MCA, because the account had been 
opened in 2007 and there had been lots of opportunities since for Mrs T to have realised she 
had such an account.
The Investigator said we could look into the other aspects of Mrs Ts complaint. She went on 
to conclude that Barclays had done enough to put things right. 
Mrs T didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed. She also wanted Barclays to stop adding interest to the MCA while her complaint 
is ongoing.
I issued a decision setting out which parts of Mrs Ts complaint I can and cant consider. I 
concluded that the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider Mrs Ts complaint about 
the opening of the MCA, because it has been made too late. We can, however, consider her 
complaint about the service and lack of support she has received from Barclays since 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs T is unhappy that we cant look into all of her complaint, but I confirm 
that this is the position. So Im only deciding her complaint about what has happened since 
2020.
Lenders must treat their customers fairly, and try to help when a borrower tells them that 
theyre in financial difficulty. Mrs T asked for help with her mortgage arrangements and also 
queried the MCA, but she says Barclays just made things worse.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mrs T and Barclays have said and provided, including 
listening to the recordings of calls between them which Barclays has provided. I think its 
clear that Mrs T has found dealing with Barclays very stressful and frustrating. However, for 
a lender to try to help find a solution and look at offering concessions, for example, there 
generally needs to be a dialogue between lender and borrower. 
Mrs T has had a number of calls with Barclays in which she said she didnt want to discuss 
payment arrangements or a plan to repay the debt on the MCA, or provide any detail about 
her financial situation. Barclays has invited her to call back with information about her 
income and expenditure to hand, so they could discuss a way forward. It has also provided 
her with details of free debt advice organisations. Without a proper understanding of Mrs Ts 
financial circumstances, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Barclays should have done 
any more. I also wouldnt expect it to have stopped charging interest on the mortgage or 
MCA while this complaint has been ongoing. That interest was always contractually payable.
I have noted that Mrs T wanted a face to face appointment to talk about her situation, and in 
2021 Barclays finally booked one for her. But the appointment was with a personal banker 
who couldnt help with mortgage arrangements. 
I recognise that visiting the branch for an appointment at which Mrs T expected to be able to 
discuss her mortgage arrangements but then finding no-one could help her was upsetting 
and frustrating. But I think the steps Barclays has taken to put things right reflect that, and I 
share our Investigators view that its apology and payment of £100 was fair and reasonable. 
While that payment was made to a joint account, I understand the account was still 
operational at the time. 
Barclays also told Mrs T that, in 2020 and 2021, it had reduced its branch staffing levels and 
the number of face to face appointments it made available because of the coronavirus 
pandemic and resulting restrictions. It also said it has a specialist team which helps 
customers in financial difficulty and provided the relevant contact details to Mrs T  as it had 
done before. 
I dont consider any of this unreasonable, and I see no particular reason why a discussion by 
phone might not have been possible or appropriate in this case  even bearing in mind what 
Mrs T has said about possible fraud. Mrs T has had multiple phone conversations with 
Barclays over the years, and has communicated regularly with us by phone as well.Mrs T has been through an extremely difficult time, and I can see that she finds dealing with 
Barclays upsetting and stressful. However, some engagement with her mortgage lender will 
be necessary, and I encourage Mrs T to discuss her situation with Barclays in order that it 
can establish what options might be available to help her. Barclays has also noted that Mrs T 
is vulnerable and put her in touch with a specialist team, and this may be of some 
reassurance to Mrs T. Finally, Barclays records indicate that it has sent Mrs T the 
information she asked it for; if Mrs T hasnt received it, she should let Barclays know.
In all the circumstances, I think Barclays has done enough to put things right, and the 
available evidence doesnt persuade me that it has refused to help Mrs T. It follows that I 
make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman