DRN-3553660
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) lent
her money on high cost loans that she couldnt afford to repay, and that it intends to apply a
refund in interest to a loan she has no complaint about.
What happened
Everyday provided Miss M with the following loans:
Date taken Amount Loan status
Loan 1 October 2018 £1,500 Settled when new 
loan taken out
Loan 2 2 March 2020 £3,275 (part of which was used 
to settle previous loan)Settled when new 
loan taken out.
Everyday provided Miss M with a third loan in January 2022 (loan 3). This loan was used 
in part to discharge the balance on loan 2, of £1,400 (rounded up slightly). Miss M has 
made it clear to us that she has no complaint concerning loan 3 and believes that 
Everyday carried out proper affordability checks in respect of that loan. She has 
continued to pay the instalments on that loan. She complained to Everyday that loans 1 
and 2 were unaffordable.
Everyday accepted that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been issued to Miss M. It agreed 
to refund the interest and charges for loans 1 and 2. However it proposed to apply the 
refund against loan 3 against the amount owing on that loan. It also said it had fairly 
assessed that loan 3 was affordable for Miss M. Miss M didnt agree that the repayment 
should be applied against loan 3, and referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and found that loan 3 was unaffordable for 
Miss M and the interest on that loan should be refunded.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in respect of any repayment of interest on 
loans 1 and 2, Everyday should pay this directly to Miss M. This was save for the interest 
of £1,400 which was absorbed into loan 3.
Everyday hasnt made any comments on my provisional findings. Miss M raised a query 
about loan 3, which I have dealt with below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
loans 1 and 2
Everyday has accepted that these loans were unaffordable so it proposed that it refund all 
interest and charges for both loans, and to remove any adverse information concerning 
these loans from Miss Ms credit file. As this would be the normal remedy for a complaint 
about unaffordable loans I think the offer is reasonable and I will direct accordingly. It 
would be normal to add 8% interest to any refunds of interest so I will do that too.
As for how the refund will be paid, Everyday proposes to reduce loan 3 by the amount of 
the refund, whereas Miss M wants the refund to be paid directly to her.
Ive noted that Miss M wants the interest refund to be paid directly to her and that she 
wants to continue paying for loan 3. She should be aware that the rate of interest she is 
paying on loan 3 will be much higher than the rate Everyday will be paying on the interest 
refund.
However given that I think that, as loan 3 is a new contract, and both parties agree that it 
was fairly provided, the whole refund of interest doesnt have to be applied to loan 3. But 
as £1,400 of loan 3 went to settling the balance of loan 2, it would be reasonable in my 
view for that amount (plus interest) to be applied to loan 3, thus reducing the balance. The 
balance of any refund of interest in respect of loans 1 and 2 may be paid directly to 
Miss M.
loan 3
As both Everyday and Miss M agree that this loan was fairly provided, I dont intend to 
take any further action, save for the application of the refund in respect of loans 1 and 2, 
as Ive stated above.
compensation
Whilst I appreciate that this has caused stress to Miss M, the normal remedy in respect of 
an unaffordable loan would be to require that the interest and any charges be refunded. As 
that will be done, I dont intend to award any additional compensation.
Miss M raised a query about loan 3 but has since reconfirmed that she doesnt want the 
affordability of loan 3 to be considered by me. So I confirm that I havent considered loan 3 
or any issue concerning its affordability. Save for that, my provisional findings are now final 
and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
I require Everyday, in respect of loans 1 and 2, to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans.
Treat any payments made by Miss M as payments towards the total capital amount.
If Miss M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
To apply £1,400 of the said refund plus 8% interest* towards loan 3 and to pay 
the balance directly to Miss M.Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman