DRN-3086158
The complaint
Mr F complains that British Gas Insurance Limited postponed a number of appointments 
when the heating broke down in his childrens bedroom. As a result Mr F felt he had little 
choice other to cancel the policy and arrangeme a third-party repair. Hed like to be 
reimbursed for this by British Gas. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr F has a HomeCare policy. On 4 January 2021 he called to make a claim as the 
heating in his childrens bedroom had broken down. An appointment was arranged 
for 21 January 2021. But the appointment was postponed on more than one 
occasion. 
Mr F wasnt told that the work needed was not considered essential as there was 
heating in other parts of the house and the hot water was working. Nor was he told 
what the parameters were for considering work to be essential. 
Because of the delays Mr F cancelled the policy and arranged a third-party repair, 
which cost £468. 
Mr F complained but British Gas didnt think it should refund the repair, but it did send 
a cheque for £60 as compensation for the missed appointments. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and required British Gas to reimburse the cost 
of the repair. 
British Gas asked for a copy of the invoice, which it has confirmed receipt of. Despite 
numerous chases, it hasnt replied to view and so the matter has been referred to me 
for review and determination.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I havent been provided with any evidence that British Gas explained to Mr F that 
attending his property wouldnt be considered essential or why that was.  Nor have I 
been made aware of whether it asked Mr F if there was anyone living at the property 
with vulnerabilities. I dont think it can fairly expect a customer to know any of this 
without them being told. 
Had British Gas checked, Mr F could have told them about a medical condition his 
children suffer with which means they have trouble regulating their own body 
temperature. And Im sure that would have meant the work would have been 
considered essential. 
Given the number of postponements I can fully understand why Mr F felt he had little 
choice other than to arrange an alternative repair. And that was a repair he was 
entitled to under the terms of the policy  it covered repairs to heating systems. 
British Gas havent put forward any argument to suggest the repair wouldnt be 
covered under the policy terms. 
I accept the third-party repair took place after the policy had been cancelled. But the 
breakdown of the heating system happened when Mr F was covered and as such he 
ought fairly to be indemnified under the terms of the policy. 
Given the poor service Mr F experienced, and for not indemnifying him under the 
terms of the policy, Im satisfied a fair resolution would be for British Gas to cover the 
cost of the repair. However, like the investigator I find the £60 compensation for the 
missed appointments is fair. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr F £468  the cost of the repair. I require it to reimburse Mr F 
within 28 days of Mr F accepting this decision (should he choose to do so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman