DRN-3353975
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) plc have reported arrears on his account to
the credit reference agencies while he was in an agreed payment holiday on his account.
What happened
Mr F was in arrears on his Capital One credit account and entered a repayment arrangement
with Capital One because of this. A few months into the payment arrangement, Mr F
contacted Capital One and requested a three-month payment holiday  which was granted
by Capital One  on the basis that he was struggling to meet the repayments due on his
account because of the financial impact of Covid-19.
Mr F was of the understanding that while he was on the three-month payment holiday that
arrears wouldnt be reported by Capital One to the credit reference agency for those months.
However, when Mr F checked his credit file, he noticed that his Capital One account was
reported as being in arrears during the time that he was on the payment holiday. Mr F wasnt
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Fs complaint. They noted that because Mr F had already been in
arrears when he entered the payment holiday that those arrears would continue to be
reported during the payment holiday period, although Mr Fs account wouldnt be reported as
falling any further into arrears during that time. Because of this, Capital One felt they were 
reporting the arrears correctly on Mr Fs account, and so they didnt uphold his
complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. They felt that Capital One hadnt
reported the arrears correctly to the credit reference agencies during the time of the three-
month payment holiday, and so they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Fs
favour.
Capital One didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our adjudicator and
maintained that they had reported the arrears correctly. So, the complaint was escalated to
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 February 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their 
credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the 
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that 
time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments 
on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
The FCA also explained that consumers who didnt meet the eligibility criteria for 
these three-month payment holidays  such as those who were already in arrears on 
their account, and who had therefore already incurred adverse reporting on their 
credit files  should still be offered financial assistance by credit providers if they 
requested it, but that this assistance should be tailored to the individual 
circumstances of those consumers and shouldnt benefit from the suspension of 
credit file reporting that the prescribed three-month payment holidays benefited from.
In this instance, Mr F was already in arrears, and already in a payment arrangement 
to clear those arrears, at the time that he requested the three-month payment holiday 
from Capital One. As such, it seems likely that Mr F shouldnt have been considered 
as being eligible for the three-month payment holiday by Capital One.
However, having granted Mr F the three-month payment holiday, it was incumbent on
Capital One to ensure that Mr Fs credit file wasnt impacted by that payment holiday.
I think that Capital One did that here, and I say this because Capital One have been 
able to evidence that they were reporting Mr Fs account as being two months in 
arrears at the time that the payment holiday was granted, and that they continued to 
report the account as being two months in arrears during the payment holiday 
period, until such time that Mr F cleared the outstanding arrears via a payment made 
by him towards the end of June 2020.
As such, Im satisfied that it wasnt the case that Capital One reported further arrears 
to the credit reference agencies during the holiday period, but that they continued to 
report the existing arrears that were already in place on the account before the 
payment holiday period commenced. And this is what it would be expected that 
Capital One would report.
Mr F has provided a screenshot of a summary of his credit file reporting for his 
Capital One account which appears to show that Capital One were reporting arrears 
for the months when the payment holiday was in effect. However, given that the 
screenshot that Mr F has provided is only a summary, the actual credit file reporting 
cannot be ascertained. And, while this service has requested a copy of Mr Fs full 
credit file from him, Mr F has so far not provided this.
As such, its difficult for me conclude that Capital One have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how theyve reported the arrears on Mr Fs account here. And this is 
because it appears from the information available to me that Capital One havent 
reported any further arrears during the payment holiday period but continued to 
report the arrears that were present on the account before that period  which as 
explained above, is what would be expected.
It follows then that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this
complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further action at this time.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr F and Capital One the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Neither Mr F or Capital One have provided any comments or new information, and as such I 
see no reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as outlined in my provisional 
decision above. I therefore confirm that my final decision will be that I am not upholding this 
complaint for the reasons explained in my provisional decision.
I realise this may not be the outcome Mr F wanted, but I trust that hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman