DRN-2795769
The complaint
Miss I complains that the car she acquired under finance with Specialist Motor Finance Ltd 
(Specialist Motor) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car, cancel the 
finance agreement and asks for her credit file to be updated. She also wants compensation 
for the impact this has had on her.
What happened
Miss I entered a hire-purchase agreement in December 2019 for a used car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was six years old and had been driven for 101,155 miles. Miss I says that 
the car had engine problems from the outset and she doesnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Miss I told us:
The car broke down within 15 days of her acquiring it and had to be taken back to the 
garage for repairs. As the issue was related to the timing chain, a full engine rebuild 
was required and the garage took a month to complete this;
she wanted to reject the vehicle at this stage, but was asked by Specialist Motor to 
drive the vehicle following the engine rebuild and she reluctantly agreed;
the car subsequently suffered from engine over-heating the day after she collected it. 
Miss I says she collected the car from the garage following the engine rebuild and 
drove it the three miles to her house. But the following day the car broke down again 
when the engine over-heated and boiled and was ejected all over the engine bay 
leaving deposits of dried coolant everywhere;
the overheating of the engine and the boiling of the coolant can only have been a 
result of the earlier engine repairs not having been completed properly, and she had to 
return the car back to the garage to be looked at again;
it was at this time that the garage identified further issues - the brake lights didnt work 
correctly and there was damage to the front alloy wheel and two of the tyres;
she discussed rejecting the car with the garage and had discussions with it about 
paying for the damage to the alloy and replacing the cars badge  shed changed it for 
one she preferred;
the garage accepted her rejection of the car and it retained the vehicle and completed 
the relevant DVLA paperwork.
Specialist Motor rejected this complaint. It said it had arranged for an independent third party 
to look at the car. It said the report showed the engine repairs had been completed 
satisfactorily and it also noted the damage to the alloys and tyres, together with the cosmetic 
changes made to the car subsequent to Miss I acquiring it.
Specialist Motor said it didnt believe there were grounds for rejection of the car; it said Miss I 
had accepted vehicle repairs instead of vehicle rejection, and as these had been completed 
successfully, the vehicle was of satisfactory quality.
Miss I did not agree, and did not collect the car from the garage, making no further 
repayments towards the hire purchase agreement.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She said 
the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and she was persuaded 
that Miss I had wanted to reject it when the car first broke down but was persuaded to wait 
until repairs had concluded.
She also said that the subsequent independent inspection report which said the car had 
been repaired satisfactorily wasnt credible; it simply didnt contain the necessary detail to 
confirm this, and it couldnt have done so, as the independent third party acknowledged that 
it hadnt actually turned on the engine or driven the car. 
In addition to rejecting the car, our investigator also asked Specialist Motor to pay Miss I 
£300 in compensation for the for the trouble and upset caused by not having a car she could 
use for such a long period of time.
Specialist Motor disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says Miss I hadnt 
made it clear that she was exercising her right to reject the car. And she hadnt provided any 
evidence that there was an inherent fault with the car at the point of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. Having taken 
everything into consideration, I think this complaint should be upheld and Specialist Motor 
need to allow Miss I to reject the car and Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point its not because Ive failed to take it into 
account its because I dont think I need to comment on it here to reach what I think to be the 
right outcome. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
think is more likely to be the case.
Miss I acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor. Under 
the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Specialist Motor can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied
"the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of the goods
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasnt new being around six years old and with a mileage of 101,155. Ive 
noted that Specialist Motor strongly disputes this and says the correct mileage at sale was 
98,868, but Ive simply not seen any persuasive argument that explains why the figure of 
101,155 miles recorded at MOT was incorrect. And in any event, it doesnt make a difference 
to my findings  the car had been driven around 100,000 miles.
Its unfortunate that Miss Is car experienced a catastrophic failure and had to undergo 
substantive repairs to its engine so soon after she acquired it  within 15 days. And then the car had further engine problems after shed been told that repairs had been successfully 
carried out  the engine overheated and the car had to be returned to the garage.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first thirty days the 
consumer can reject the car without the business having the option to repair the fault. The 
cars engine failed with 15 days of Miss I acquiring it, during which time shed driven 
relatively few miles. So, there is an argument that at this point Miss I shouldve been able to 
reject the car.
I dont know whether Miss I was persuaded or pressured into allowing the garage to repair 
the car, but it seems she chose this route rather than to reject the car outright and by doing 
so she agreed to keep the car.
But the relevant legislation says that if repairs fail the consumer should be allowed to reject 
the car. It does not give a business one chance to repair each separate fault that may occur. 
Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as a whole not 
each separate component. Indeed, the more separate faults - the more likely it is the vehicle 
isnt of satisfactory quality.
When the engine overheated just one day after engine repairs had supposedly been 
successfully completed and the car returned to Miss I, she returned the car to the garage 
and discussed the rejection of the vehicle. I dont think Miss I accepted further repairs at this 
point; she discussed rejection of the car with the garage, left it with them, and DVLA were 
notified of a change in ownership. And at this point I think Specialist Motor shouldve allowed 
the rejection as the car clearly wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
I also have some concerns about Specialist Motors independent report  the assessment 
that the third party undertook on Miss Is car. I consider it most unusual and quite 
unreasonable that the engine wasnt turned on and the car wasnt driven whilst it assessed 
the vehicle and prepared its report  especially given that Miss Is principal concerns with the 
car related to the engine malfunctioning and then overheating.  And although I appreciate 
that the engine was observed externally, this in itself would not confirm that the engine was 
operating as expected once the car had been driven for a reasonable period of time.
The report did note damage to the tyres, which isnt in dispute, but I dont consider that the 
report has the level of detail necessary for it to be relied on as a reason to decline the 
vehicle rejection. While it does consider that the car is of a satisfactory quality following the 
checks done during inspection, I consider that those same checks were insufficient for the 
reasons Ive already given.
Im aware that there were some discussions regarding other damage / modifications to the 
vehicle when the rejection and return of the car were being negotiated between Miss I and 
the garage. I understand Miss I agreed to pay for wheel repairs that were likely caused when 
she hit a pot hole, but she says shes not responsible for additional damage to the tracking 
as the garage had alleged. The garage also wanted her to pay for a rear badge that Miss I 
had replaced, but she explained that the original badge was still in the car and could be 
switched at no cost.
Finally, Specialist Motor made some allegations regarding intentional damage  it suggests 
there was a criminal nature about them and says they were detailed in the independent 
report. But this isnt something that I can look at  I dont have the power to interview people; 
I cant cross-examine them or compel them to give evidence under oath. So, if this is 
something Specialist Motor wishes to pursue, it will need to approach the relevant 
authorities.Summary
Taking everything into consideration, I think this complaint should be upheld and Miss I 
should be allowed to reject the car. I also appreciate that there were some disagreements 
with the garage on what needed to be paid for by Miss I prior to the cars return. I believe 
Miss I should pay for repairs to the wheels and tracking as this is likely due to the impact of 
the admitted pot-hole collision. In addition, as the original vehicle badge was removed, I 
think it fair for her to pay for the reinstallation of this as well.
Putting things right
Specialist Motor Finance Ltd must accept Mrs Is rejection of the vehicle; collecting the car at 
no cost to Miss I and ending the finance agreement. Im also going to ask Specialist Motor 
Finance Ltd to pay Miss I some compensation in recognition of the inconvenience and 
distress it has caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I direct Specialist Motor Finance Ltd to:
allow Miss I to reject the car and then collect the car at no cost to Miss I;
end the finance agreement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Is credit file in relation to 
this issue and;
pay Miss I £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman