DRN-3484878
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided her with unsuitable advice 
when it recommended that she purchase a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) pension plan.
Mrs M has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company. But, 
for ease of reading, I will refer to all communication as having been with Mrs M herself.
What happened
Mrs M has been a teacher and a member of the teachers occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) since 1994. In 1997 she met with a representative of Colonial Mutual Life to discuss 
making additional contributions to her pension. Colonial Mutual Life is now the responsibility 
of Aviva and it is Aviva that is required to deal with this complaint. I shall refer to Aviva 
throughout this decision.
Mrs M was advised to start making contributions into an FSAVC plan. Aviva hasnt been able 
to provide us with a copy of the advice given to Mrs M but it has been able to provide copies 
of the application form she signed, the illustration she was provided with and a copy of the 
policy.
In 1997, Mrs M agreed to make monthly payments of £50 to the FSAVC. This amount was to 
increase each year by 5%. Mrs M enjoyed the benefits of tax relief on her contributions.
In December 2009 she transferred her FSAVC to another provider.
Mrs M made a complaint to Aviva in 2020. She said shed been given unsuitable advice in 
1997 and shed incurred a financial loss as a result.
Aviva investigated her complaint. It said it couldnt confirm Mrs M had been made aware of 
the in-house arrangements available to members of the OPS and because of that it said it 
upheld her complaint. It then looked at whether Mrs M had suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the advice to take out a FSAVC. Aviva said it believed the loss assessment should 
be calculated on the basis of the difference between the charges on the FSAVC policy and 
the in-house AVC arrangement. It subsequently calculated the difference as £2,874.98 
(gross).
Aviva said that although the OPS offered the option to buy added years, that option wasnt 
intended to help fund early retirement. Aviva said it was clear from the documentation it had 
that Mrs M was planning to retire early at age 55. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said:
Aviva had failed to keep the paperwork associated with the sale. This was a breach 
of regulatory requirements;
There was no evidence to show Mrs Ms retirement age had been discussed or that 
she genuinely intended to retire at 55;
There was a requirement at the time that any FSAVC benefit had to be taken at the 
same time as the OPS benefits. There was no evidence that this was discussed with 
Mrs M or that she was told her OPS benefits would be actuarially reduced if she 
retired early.
Mrs Ms contributions to the FSAVC indicated she couldve afforded to purchase the 
maximum (three) added years in her OPS.
Aviva didnt change its view. Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She said she was persuaded that Mrs Ms intention was to retire 
at age 55. But, she initially said she thought Mrs M wouldve purchased added years in her 
OPS rather than taking out the in-house AVC option. 
Aviva didnt agree. It said the in-house AVC was the correct comparison. It said 
Mrs M would have to have purchased 8 extra years if she intended to retire at age 55 and 
this would have cost her considerably more than the FSAVC. And it pointed out that even if 
that had been possible, her OPS wouldve been actuarially reduced if shed taken the 
benefits at age 55.
Our investigator looked at everything again. She still thought Mrs M intended to retire early 
when shed taken the advice in 1997. But our investigator changed her view about what she 
thought Mrs M wouldve done if shed been given suitable advice. She said the OPS only 
would have permitted Mrs M to buy three added years. This wasnt a flexible option for 
someone who wanted to retire early. So, she thought it was likely on balance Mrs M 
wouldve taken out the in-house AVC option instead of the FSAVC. In these circumstances, 
our investigator said that Avivas approach to calculating Mrs Ms financial loss was correct.
Mrs M did not accept what our investigator said. She said that the idea that she wanted to 
retire at age 55 was a pipe dream. There was insufficient documentation to support this 
view or to show that any discussion had taken place between the adviser in 1997 and 
Mrs M. Mrs M had contributed 3.5% of her salary to the FSAVC, increasing annually. A 
contribution of less than 1% wouldve earned her an extra years service. So, she could have 
purchased three added years and wouldve had much more valuable benefits as a result. 
Because Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Rules which apply to our Service, we cant consider a complaint if its brought to 
us more than six years after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years 
after the consumer knew or ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause for 
complaint, unless the business gives its consent. Aviva has consented to our service 
investigating this complaint.
Aviva has accepted that it isnt able to confirm Mrs M was made aware of the in-house 
arrangements available to members of the OPS and because of that it said it upheld her 
complaint. So theres no dispute here that Mrs M may have been given unsuitable advice in 
1997. Aviva has also acknowledged that Mrs M experienced a financial loss because of what 
happened but there is a dispute about how that financial loss should be calculated.
The aim of this Service is to try to put Mrs M as much as possible back into the position she 
likely wouldve been in now if shed been given suitable advice. That requires me to consider 
what she would most likely have done if that had been the case.Aviva says its likely Mrs M wouldve chosen to take out an in-house AVC instead of an 
FSAVC. It says the charges on the FSAVC were higher than they were on the in-house AVC 
 so, it says it will refund the charges to her. Mrs M doesnt agree. She says its likely that 
she wouldve purchased added years in her OPS.
There is no documentary record of the conversation Mrs M had with the adviser in 1997. We 
have been provided with a copy of her application form, an illustration and details about the 
policy she took out. So, its not possible to be certain about what was said during the 
meeting with the adviser.
In 1997 its clear that Mrs M was intending to increase her pension provision and for that 
reason I think its reasonable to conclude that she intended to carry on working for the 
foreseeable future. And, Im persuaded that given her profession its likely she intended to 
continue working as a teacher until she retired.
The adviser who spoke to Mrs M was a tied advisor. That meant he could only offer 
products from Aviva. The rules at the time were set out by the regulator. These rules stated 
that a tied adviser should draw the consumers attention to the in-house alternatives, discuss 
the generic difference between the two routes and direct the consumer to the employer or 
the OPS for more information on the in-house options. Theres no evidence that happened.
So, Ive considered what might have happened if Mrs M had been directed to her employer 
or OPS for further information.
The OPS offered two ways that Mrs M could enhance her pension:
- An in-house AVC; or 
- Added years
The in-house AVC
The in-house AVC scheme was similar in many ways to the FSAVC which Mrs M took out. 
With the in-house AVC it was generally accepted at the time that charges wouldve been 
lower than those which applied to FSAVCs.
AVCs offered the possibility for future growth. At the time, the assumptions of future growth 
might have made this option look attractive. With the benefit of hindsight, those assumptions 
have not materialised due to disappointing investment returns and falling annuity rates. But, 
when thinking about what Mrs M might have done, its important to bear in mind what the 
assumptions were at the time when she was making her decision.
With an in-house AVC Mrs M wouldve been required to use the fund built up when she 
retired to purchase an annuity. At the time, she couldnt have taken a tax-free cash sum from 
her AVC. It was also the case that she could only take her AVC benefits at the same time as 
she took her OPS benefits.
Added Years
Mrs Ms OPS also offered the option to purchase added years. The maximum service 
Mrs M could attain under her OPS was 37 years. So, she couldve purchased a maximum of 
three added years under the OPS rules. In order to do that she wouldve needed to make 
additional contributions, based on a percentage of her salary, right up to the date when she 
reached age 60. If she retired early she wouldve needed to either pay the balance due (from 
her lump sum or from her savings). If she didnt want to do that then the number of added 
years would be reduced accordingly.Added years provided guaranteed benefits linked to final salary. The benefits would be on 
the same terms as the rest of the OPS. So, for example it wouldve included spousal 
benefits.
This option might be attractive to someone who intended to remain in service up to age 60 
and who expected their salary to increase substantially over that period. With added years 
Mrs M couldve used some of the benefits to take a tax free cash sum. But, because it was 
linked to future salary it wasnt possible to define precisely what the overall benefit package 
would be when she retired  a factor which is particularly relevant if she decided to retire 
early. 
When thinking about these two options Ive taken into account what we know about Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time when she received the advice. She was married and in a 
profession which she was likely to remain in until she retired. 
The costs
Mrs M committed to make a payment of £50 (gross) per month, increasing by 5% each year 
into the FSAVC. That was a significant percentage of her salary  just over 3.5%. If shed 
agreed to purchase the maximum number of three added years, the cost wouldve been 
around 1.9% of her salary every year. She says this demonstrates that she couldve afforded 
to make the payments to purchase the maximum number of added years.
As mentioned above, the maximum number of added years she could purchase was three. 
That wouldve required her to pay additional contributions, as a percentage of her salary, 
until she was 60 years old. In the event that she retired early, the OPS rules stated that she 
had to make the rest of the extra payments (5 years of extra contributions) either from her 
retirement cash lump sum or from other resources. If she didnt do that the number of added 
years would be reduced accordingly. So, if her intention was to retire early, I think the 
uncertainty about the total costs involved and the potential benefits she would obtain, if she 
retired at age 55, wouldve made it an unattractive option.
Early retirement
Ive looked at the application form signed by Mrs M and the illustration she was given at the 
time. Both of these documents refer to a provisional retirement age of 55. Having looked at 
these documents, Im persuaded that this was something which wouldve been discussed 
with Mrs M. She wouldve been aware of the provisional retirement age on which the 
application and the illustration were based. So, I think, on balance, that the possibility of 
being able to retire at age 55 was something Mrs M did have as an objective when she 
spoke to the adviser and I dont agree that it was merely a pipe-dream.
If Mrs M had decided to retire at age 55, that wouldve had implications for the benefits she 
could take under her OPS. The number of years of service for purposes of calculating her 
benefits under the OPS wouldve been 32 years and not 37 years. In addition, the benefits 
payable wouldve been actuarially reduced. Commonly this reduction is around 4 - 5% for 
each year the benefits are taken early. So, if Mrs M wanted to retire at age 55 there would 
be a significant gap in her benefits compared to a situation where she had continued to 
work until age 60.
When Mrs M took advice in 1997, theres no evidence that this matter was discussed with 
her or that she was referred to her OPS to get more information. But, I think she wouldve 
been aware, in general terms, that if she retired early her OPS benefits would be less than if 
she continued to work until 60. And, I think it was this gap which she wanted to make 
provision for.If she had chosen to purchase added years the number of added years, at age 55, wouldve 
been pro-rated down in proportion to the number of years contributions she had made (or 
was prepared to make up payments for when she retired). So, although at best she might 
have had the benefit of some added years at age 55  up to a maximum of three - there 
wouldve been some doubt and uncertainty about whether or not she could afford to make 
the extra payment to obtain the full three added years at the time when she retired. And in 
any case, there would still have been a shortfall in terms of years of service for purposes of 
her OPS benefits. It wasnt possible for her to have the maximum service (40 years) to get 
her full OPS benefits unless she continued to work until she was 60 and purchased three 
added years.
Under the AVC option, Mrs M wouldve been able to look at the projected benefits of the 
AVC. The illustration she was given at the time for the FSAVC showed assumptions based 
on potential returns of between 6% and 12% a year and the projected pension that this might 
equate to. Whilst the figures were not guaranteed, and with the benefit of hindsight havent 
been realised, I think that at the time they wouldve presented a very attractive alternative to 
the added years option because of the potential the AVC had to fill the gap in her pension if 
she retired at age 55. That may also explain why she was prepared to make contributions of 
3.5% of her salary, increasing by 5% each year  so that she could seek to maximise the 
potential benefits from her AVC.
Attitude to risk
Mrs M says she wasnt prepared to take risk. She says she has never invested in any risk-
based products, apart from an endowment mortgage. When thinking about what she is more 
likely to have done in 1997 if shed been given suitable advice, I have thought about what 
shes said here. But, based on the limited information available to me, I cant fairly conclude 
that Mrs M was against risk-based products. 
She wouldve seen, from the illustration she was given, that the benefits from the FSAVC 
were not guaranteed and there was a warning which stated that she could get back more or 
less than the projected returns. So, I think this demonstrates she was willing to take risk and 
Im not persuaded, on balance, that the certainty of a guaranteed pension, even if she 
wouldve been able to afford the extra payments to allow her to purchase the maximum 
number of three additional years when she reached age 55, would have been a determining 
factor when she made her decision in 1997.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded, on balance, that Mrs M wouldve 
purchased added years rather than joining the in-house AVC. In these circumstances the 
loss assessment should calculate the effect of the difference in charges between the FSAVC 
policy and the in-house AVC alternative arrangement available at the time of the sale.
Aviva has engaged an independent actuary to calculate Mrs Ms loss and has set out the 
basis on which that calculation has been carried out in its letter dated 29 July 2021. Ive 
considered the contents of that letter, including the Key Facts, Assumptions and Data 
Items included with it. Having done so, I think Avivas offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs M £2,874.98 (gross) 
which after deduction of 15% (being an allowance for tax) is a payment of £2,443.73.So, my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay £2,443.73 to 
Mrs M in line with its letter dated 29 July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman