DRN-3505805
The complaint
Mr F complains that Skrill Limited hasnt done enough to assist him in recovering money he 
paid to a third party, A, in relation to services he says were changed after he made his 
payments.
What happened
Mr F used his Skrill e-money account to make payments to A. He says this was on the 
understanding that he would be able to use As services to buy discounted gift cards. Mr F 
later agreed with A to a change in the way those services operated. A few months later he 
discovered that A had been deemed to be in violation of consumer rights in the way it 
operated its services. That operation had restricted consumers  including Mr F  ability to 
access and use the money hed paid to A.
A declined Mr Fs requests for a refund. So he asked Skrill to help him get his money back. 
Skrill attempted to chargeback the payments. However, A defended the claim and remained 
unwilling to return the payments. Skrill told Mr F it couldnt assist further. But Mr F was still 
unhappy, and raised this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Skrill had acted inappropriately. He noted that all the payments 
Mr F was seeking to recover were made prior to the change made by A, and that hed been 
happy with the arrangements that caused him to make the payments. The investigator found 
that while Mr Fs dispute with A didnt fit any specific reason code under the card scheme 
rules, Skrill had used a reason code that was sufficiently close. This had been raised and a 
defence within the card scheme rules had been received
The investigator went on to say that while there was a possibility that Skrill might have raised 
the chargeback using a different reason code from the one it did use, it was unlikely that this 
would have been any more successful. So he didnt think Skrill needed to do any more in 
relation to Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators conclusions and asked for this review. In doing so, he 
submitted further comments as annotations to the investigators assessment, which I 
summarise as follows:
he had never been able to use 100% of the credits funded by his card payments to 
buy a gift card
the changes A made were modifications to the terms and conditions of its original 
agreement with him. He hadnt been given the right of withdrawal or rejection of 
those modifications
it was correct to say that the transactions took place prior to the change A had 
implemented, and that hed been happy with the original arrangements. But hed had 
to wait some time before hed been able to download and use the gift cards hed 
purchased. During that time A had changed the parameters, including restricting the 
types of gift card available
the choice he was given by A in relation to the modifications was either a breach of 
the original terms and conditions that applied when he made his payments, or a 
misdescription of the nature of the change
Contrary to the investigators finding, A didnt offer him the option to continue with the 
original arrangements; only not to accept the forced conversion of the wallet top-up 
into credits, which either way included a limitation on use
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im going to disappoint Mr F once again, because I dont think I 
can uphold his complaint about Skrill. Let me explain why.
Firstly, its clear Mr F has a contractual dispute with A. But that isnt what I  or Skrill  are 
here to determine. Skrills role in this matter is to see if it can assist Mr F in recovering his 
money from A (the merchant). Its options for doing so are rather limited. As an e-money card 
issuer, its only real recourse is to attempt to chargeback Mr Fs payments using the relevant 
card scheme rules. Skrill doesnt run the card scheme itself, and has no influence over the 
chargeback process. And not every dispute between a customer and a merchant falls 
completely within the chargeback reasons in the card scheme rules.
When a card issuer starts a chargeback, the outcome is by no means guaranteed. The claim 
may be successfully defended by the merchant. That doesnt mean the card issuer agrees 
with the merchant, or that it favours one party over another. It simply means the merchant 
has defended the claim in line with the card scheme rules. Thats what appears to have 
happened here. A responded to Skrill within the given period, challenging the assertion that 
it hadnt provided the goods or services in respect of which Mr F had made his payments.
I accept Mr F disputes As position. His comments in response to the investigators 
assessment are clear in setting out the reasons why hes dissatisfied with A and believes he 
should be entitled to his money back. But they dont really offer me a reason to conclude that 
the reason he hasnt got his money back via chargeback was because of a failing on Skrills 
part. They merely highlight and clarify why hes unhappy with A, and I dont think thats in 
dispute.
Its important for me to emphasise that a card issuer doesnt generally adopt liability for the 
actions of the merchant simply because a customer pays with a card it issued. In some 
situations, the chargeback scheme affords customers a way of resolving their dispute with a 
merchant without needing to take legal action. Unfortunately, its sometimes the case that 
the underlying dispute has to be resolved by other means, such as court action.
I understand Mr Fs strength of feeling here. He clearly feels As misled him and/or breached 
its agreement with him, and based on the evidence hes submitted (including the statements 
issued by the regulator in As home country) I can see why he believes he has a strong 
case. But I cant see theres a basis to say this makes it appropriate for me to say Skrill 
should be liable to reimburse Mr F the money that he paid.
When Mr F approached Skrill, it did what it could to help. It raised a claim against A under a 
valid chargeback reason in the card scheme rules. A defended the claim under those same 
scheme rules. Skrill explained the situation to Mr F. While Im conscious he was unhappy 
with the depth of its response, it included the documents received from A in defence of the claim. I find that Skrills response was sufficient to meet its general obligation to address 
customer information needs.
Im further satisfied that, in light of As response to the chargeback claim, Skrill was entitled 
to exercise its discretion in the way it did in not pursuing matters to the arbitration stage of 
the chargeback process. Overall, I find that Skrill has acted fairly towards Mr F in this matter.
My final decision
Ive sympathy for Mr Fs situation. I understand the arguments he makes about the 
underlying dispute with A, and he might be able to persuade a court of law to find in his 
favour. It is open to Mr F to seek legal advice in this respect; I cant advise him. But as Ive 
said, thats not the issue Im dealing with in considering the actions of Skrill.
For the reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly uphold Mr Fs complaint about Skrill Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman