DRN-2539566
The complaint
A community interest company Ill refer to as C have complained that Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Office Plc turned down their business interruption insurance claim. Mr Y, director 
of C, has complained on Cs behalf.
What happened
C hold a charity protect insurance policy with Ecclesiastical. C claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
Ecclesiastical said that the policy didnt cover Cs claim because they didnt have business 
interruption insurance as part of their policy. 
C thought they did have business interruption insurance, but said that if they didnt then 
another part of the policy should cover their claim, due to the losses theyd experienced. C 
brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
C had business interruption insurance as part of their policy. He also didnt think any other 
part of the policy covered Cs claim, as they related to different types of cover. 
C didnt accept the investigators view. They referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) test case and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an 
impact on C. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding their 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Charity protection insurance offers protection from risks common to a charity, but different 
policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim. 
Cs policy booklet contains sections for each part of the cover which was available for them 
to purchase when they bought the policy. The schedule says it forms part of the policy and 
sets out which parts of the policy apply.
Ive looked at Cs policy schedule and I dont think they have business interruption insurance 
cover. The schedule shows C bought cover for public and products liability, employers 
liability, professional indemnity, trustees and directors indemnity and legal expenses. 
Business interruption insurance isnt listed on the schedule, which means it isnt a section of 
cover that C bought. Ive also looked at the insurance proposal form. This lists the same 
areas of cover as the schedule and doesnt include business interruption. This further 
indicates that C didnt buy business interruption insurance as part of the policy. 
I understand C feels that they wanted to buy business interruption insurance. However, as 
the policy was sold by a broker, Im not able to make a finding on what happened during the 
sale in this decision. If C is unhappy with the way the policy was sold they would need to 
complain about that separately to the broker. 
C havent indicated which terms in the other parts of the policy they feel should cover their 
claim. Ive looked at the policy and I dont think the areas of cover, that Ive mentioned 
above, cover the interruption to C as a result of the pandemic and the Governments related 
actions. I say that because they cover other types of risks, such as legal disputes. 
C have referred to the FCAs test case. However, not all policies and policy terms were 
considered as part of the test case. And I dont believe Cs claim would be impacted by this, 
as C didnt have business interruption insurance cover. 
I understand C will be disappointed with this outcome, but for the reasons Ive set out above, 
I dont think I can fairly ask Ecclesiastical to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman