DRN-4229144
The complaint
Miss W complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined to cover some damage she 
claimed for against a property insurance policy.  
Miss Ws been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
actions of the representative as being those of Miss W. Avivas had agents and contractors 
working on its behalf. For the same reason, in places, Ive referred to their actions as being 
those of Aviva.
What happened
Miss W is the leaseholder of a flat in a converted industrial building. The block is covered by 
an insurance policy provided by Aviva. The block experienced subsidence resulting from 
problems with a local waterway. She made a claim against the policy for loss. Miss W was 
unhappy with progress of the claim and Avivas failure to provide alternative accommodation 
(AA) for her. In August 2021 a different Ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service 
issued a final decision for that complaint. The Ombudsman had considered matters up until 
a complaint final response issued by Aviva in January 2020. 
Miss W made a further complaint to Aviva. Her main dispute is about a slope and dip in the 
floor of her home. She accepts there was a slight historic slope when she purchased the flat. 
But she feels the evidence supports there having been further movement from the 
subsidence. She feels this has caused an increased incline and that movement has caused 
further damage. Aviva had denied any recent, claim related movement in the floor, stating 
any slope is historical. 
Miss W wasnt satisfied so returned to this service in September 2022. She feels Avivas 
denial of the increased incline means its proposed schedule of works (SoW) doesnt include 
key repairs. Avivas stood by its existing SoW  adding that several of the issues Miss Ws 
raising are already covered by it. Other items, like internal doors, it accepted didnt meet 
building regulations but denied problems are claim related or covered by the policy. 
When coming to this service Miss W said she isnt asking for an adjudication on the SoW. 
Instead she asked for us to require Aviva and herself to be bound by the opinion of an 
independent professional on the scope of insured damage and necessary repairs. 
Our Investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly. He wasnt persuaded the slope was subsidence 
related. Miss W didnt accept the outcome. After that I asked Miss Ws representative and 
Aviva to discuss the proposed independent professional appointment and site meeting. 
Aviva declined the proposal. It said the items proposed for discussion had already been 
covered before. It added some are accepted as not being subsidence related and are being 
dealt with by the propertys managing agent. 
I explained to Miss Ws representative that I didnt intend to require Aviva to agree to, and be 
bound, by a third-party report. I said I wasnt persuaded doing so would resolve the dispute. 
I explained I could consider Avivas position on the disputed damage if Miss W would like me 
to do so. She agreed, providing a list of items for me to consider. These include levelling the 
floor to its pre-event gradient and repairs to fire doors.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023. As its reasoning forms part of this final 
decision Ive copied it in below. In it I explain why I intended to require Aviva to fulfil the 
recommendations of an October 2021 report, reimburse it and the authors site visit costs 
and pay Miss W £300 compensation. 
I also invited Aviva and Miss W to provide anything they would like me to consider before 
issuing this final decision. Aviva didnt respond. Miss W accepted the provisional decision 
but raised a couple of issues. Ive addressed those below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Miss W and Aviva have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider 
to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Miss Ws home is insured by a policy that covers the block its part of. Its an all risks 
policy. It says We will indemnify You in respect of the Damage to the Property 
Insured occurring during the Period of Insurance at the Premises.  
As its all risks Miss W isnt required to show any damage shes claiming for was 
caused by a specific insured event  like subsidence, fire or escape of water. 
Instead, looking at the terms, she just needs to show there was damage during the 
period of insurance. If Aviva wishes to decline a claim for any damage Miss Ws 
claiming for it needs to show a term, condition or exclusion in the policy reasonably 
allows it to do so. 
Central to the complaint is the issue of the floor slope. Miss W believes the evidence 
supports the historic slope having been exacerbated by the recent subsidence  
causing damage to various part of her property. Aviva doesnt accept this  instead it 
feels all floor distortion present is historic and pre-dates the subsidence. So it doesnt 
accept theres any floor movement, or associated damage, to be covered by 
Miss Ws policy.  
The key evidence for this issue includes Miss Ws October 2021 surveyors report 
and Avivas May 2022 site visit report and notes. Having considered those and 
everything else, I think its likely there has been some further movement of the floor.  
Fire doors, within Miss Ws property, have gaps that exceed building regulations. It 
seems likely to me they would have been originally installed to meet building 
regulations. These doors no longer fully serve their purpose, so its reasonable to 
consider them as damaged. 
Somethings caused this damage. Its accepted theres been subsidence, so without a 
more persuasive cause, it seems the most likely cause. Both Miss Ws report and 
Avivas note the doors were planed to allow them to open and close. I havent been 
provided with an explanation of why this was required. Without one it seems most 
likely it was due to the movement of the property resulting from the subsidence.      Miss Ws report also refers to various cracking, including at the junctions of partition 
wall perpendicular to the front elevation. It notes similar cracking at junctions of 
partition walls and the front elevation in neighbouring flats. The report provides 
descriptions of other damage to the building that it feels is indicative of downward 
movement of the front elevation of the building. 
Avivas May 2022 report makes some reasonable points about the absence of 
damage that would be expected if the floor had dropped  including to kitchen 
sealant and cabinet joins. However, it fails to adequately explain a 20mm gap under 
skirting shown in its photos. I accept the skirting will have been installed to 
accommodate an existing incline, but it seems unlikely to have been fitted with such 
a significant gap. So again it seems likely something caused the gap  and with no 
other explanation the recent subsidence would seem the probable cause. 
Overall Im currently persuaded theres been an increase in the incline of the floor. 
And Aviva hasnt shown a policy term or exclusion reasonably applies to limit or 
remove its liability. So its reasonable for Aviva, in line with the terms of the policy, to 
cover any related damage.
As Ive so far found Miss Ws survey report the most persuasive it seems reasonable 
to refer to its recommendations for adjustments to the SoW. So I intend to require 
Aviva to undertake most of its recommendations. These are:
Replace or repair the fire doors, within Miss Ws property, to ensure they are 
compliant with the relevant buildings regulations.
Ensure the floor is secure and level where possible.
Re-level kitchen units and worktops replacing where necessary.
Replace damaged tiling in bathroom and kitchen.
Service and adjust windows and replace as required. 
Secure an inspection hatch to hallway and replace damaged carpet. 
I dont intend to include the recommendation to expose the front elevation and repair 
cracks to masonry. The report justifies this with reference to missing pointing and 
stepped cracks on the external side of the elevation. Aviva says it cant identify any 
cracks or damage to that area of the building. Having seen a few photos I havent 
been able to either. So currently I dont intend to require Aviva to take on this 
recommendation.  
Miss W was charged for her October 2021 report. She also paid for its author to 
attend a site meeting with Aviva. As his evidence has had an impact on the outcome 
of the claim and complaint it will be reasonable for Aviva to cover those costs. So I 
intend to require Aviva to reimburse her. It will also need to add simple interest at 
8%, from the date she paid the invoices, to the date of settlement. This is to make up 
for her being without those funds. 
Finally I intend to require Aviva to pay Miss W some compensation. Im satisfied that 
if Aviva had accepted Miss Ws October 2021 report recommendations some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience would have been avoided. £300 is a fair 
amount for it to pay to recognise this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Miss W pointed out that I had, in places, mistakenly referred to her October 2021 report 
as dating from October 2022. Ive now corrected that mistake in my provisional decision 
reasoning.  
Miss W asked for clarification regarding my intended award of her surveyors fees. She 
explained there were two site visits by the surveyor  one to inspect and provisionally scope 
and a later one to meet with Avivas loss adjuster. For clarity I require Aviva to cover the cost 
of the initial visit, the resulting report and the later site visit. 
Miss W referred to her policy covering AA costs. She said the condition of the fire doors 
made the property uninhabitable. She explained shes been living with family for the past 
four years. She said as a result she hasnt incurred additional rental costs but has still had to 
pay the expenses for her property  including council tax and utilities.  
I note the ombudsman for the Miss Ws previous complaint, considering events up until 
January 2020, didnt feel the claim damage made the property unfit to reside in. 
I didnt consider the issue of AA or related costs in my provisional decision. That was 
because in Miss Ws initial referral submissions for this complaint she said she was 
reserving submissions of the issue until shes able to move back in the property and offer it 
for sale. In addition she responded to our investigators assessment of this complaint by 
stating she hadnt asked for a decision on habitability. And the matter wasnt raised by 
Miss W in her July 2023 emails sent in response to me outlining what issues I felt I could 
consider. 
Miss W also referred, in response to my provisional decision, to the cost incurred for the 
services of her loss assessor. I cant see that she previously asked for this to be considered 
as part of this complaint.  
I dont feel its reasonable to introduce these two issues at this stage. Miss W should have 
raised them earlier if she wanted them considered. For me to do so now would inevitably 
delay the resolution of the complaint and claim even further.       
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
fulfil, as bulleted above, the recommendations of Miss Ws October 2021 report,
reimburse her the cost of her October 2021 report and its authors two site visits  
plus simple interest on those amounts at 8% and  
pay her £300 compensation. 

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman