DRN-3683674
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Metro Bank PLC gave the police incorrect information about her safety 
deposit box, which led to her property being seized. Shed like Metro to pay the costs she 
incurred recovering them.
What happened
Mrs M held a safe deposit box with Metro, in which she kept some items of hers. They were 
contacted by the police, who enquired if the box was still belonged to one of its previous 
users. Metro wrongly confirmed that it was. The police then obtained a warrant for the box, 
and Mrs Ms items were seized. Mrs M discovered this several weeks later when she visited 
her Metro branch. She was told she had closed the box, which led to confusion. She says 
she was told by branch to contact a solicitor. She employed a solicitor to liaise with the 
police and explain what had happened. She later had her items returned to her.
Mrs M then raised a complaint with Metro, asking for compensation and for reimbursement 
of her legal costs to be covered. The bank accepted theyd made an error which had led to 
the warrant being issued. They offered to pay Mr M £250 in recognition of their mistake but 
declined to cover her costs. They said it wasnt necessary for Mrs M to employ a solicitor to 
recover her items.
Unhappy with this Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at what happened, and she felt that it would be reasonable for Metro to cover the 
solicitors fees. She felt that Metro hadnt provided Mrs M with enough support at the time 
the mistake was discovered. She didnt think employing a solicitor to deal with the police was 
an unreasonable course of action. She felt the compensation already offered was fair, but 
asked that Metro reimburse Mrs Ms legal costs, along with 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Metro disagreed and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. The complaint has 
now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro accept that their error led to the contents of Mrs Ms safe deposit box being seized. 
The key consideration for me is whether Metro have done enough to put things right. And on 
reflection I feel there is more they should have done to resolve this issue.
Metro have said that there was no need for Mrs M to get a solicitor, as they could have 
resolved this matter directly with the police at no cost to her. Mrs M has said that in branch 
she was told she should get a solicitor to help her recover her items, although Metro have 
disputed this. I cant know exactly what was discussed in branch, and there dont seem to 
have been records kept. But I think its likely that Mrs M did express dissatisfaction that she 
couldnt access her box  and if Metro were to take charge of resolving this with the police 
this would be the time to do it. But Ive seen no indication that any help or assistance was 
provided, or a complaint logged. Ive seen nothing to suggest Metro tried to resolve this with 
the police at the time.
Generally, I wouldnt expect a bank to cover legal costs if a consumer has hired a solicitor to 
perform a task that could be done at no cost to them  such as submitting a complaint. But I 
also consider that if you liaise with the police, even in the capacity of a third party, its not 
unreasonable to have legal representation. Its what Id expect a reasonable person to do to 
attempt to mitigate their circumstances. So, I dont find it unusual that Mrs M did this.
When something goes wrong our services approach is that the consumer should be put 
back in the position they would have been in. Ive reviewed the solicitors invoice, and Im 
satisfied that the itemised charges relate to retrieving Mrs Ms items from the police. Overall, 
Im satisfied these are charges Mrs M would not have had to pay except for the actions of 
Metro. On that basis, I believe its fair for Metro to reimburse her for these. This would 
include the VAT so from the invoice would be £3,537.60. As she has already paid the fees, 
and as such has been deprived of this money it would be reasonable to include simple 
interest of 8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ive considered the compensation on offer, and I accept this was a distressing and upsetting 
experience for her. Im satisfied there was an impact on Mrs M and that its right she gets 
compensated. But I also see that the issue was resolved within a month  albeit through the 
actions of the solicitor, rather than Metro. With that in mind I think the compensation of £250 
offered is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that in addition to the £250 already offered Metro Bank PLC must 
reimburse Mrs M the cost of her legal fees, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. 
If Metro Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman