DRN-2911171
The complaint
Mr B complains that Soteria Insurance Limited didnt explain properly how it dealt with no
claims discount (NCD) when he bought a motor insurance policy from it in 2019.
What happened
Mr B had proof of 13 years NCD when he started the policy with Soteria. He made a claim 
during the first year, for which liability was disputed. On Soterias NCD step back table, 
following one claim, NCD is reduced by two years. But when the policy ended in 2020 
Soteria gave Mr B proof of only three years NCD. Mr B said he had to pay an extra £1,000 
for insurance, given only three years proof of NCD - plus the open claim.
Soteria said the maximum discount it could start a new customer on was five years. It said 
the proof of three years NCD it gave him in 2020 was correct, but that it would provide a 
letter for his new insurer to show that Mr B had 13 years NCD from his previous insurer. It 
paid Mr B £35 for the delay in providing the letter. But Mr Bs new insurer wouldnt accept the 
letter from Soteria, so his new premium remained the same. He told us the insurance he 
held on other vehicles also rose. He said he would not have bought the policy from Soteria 
had he understood how it dealt with NCD.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. She thought the details online didnt
make it clear that five years NCD was the maximum accepted by Soteria, as the option
allowed him to select five years or more. She said the policy booklet showed a 70%
discount for five years or more NCD, which in her view implied that more than five years was
accepted. The investigator also said she couldnt see any details showing how NCD years
would be reduced after a claim. She thought Soteria should give Mr B proof of 13 years NCD
should the open claim be settled in his favour, or proof of 11 years NCD if it wasnt.
Soteria said giving a choice online of five years or more NCD made it clear that anything
more than five years was in the same category as five years and would attract the same
70% discount. It said the policy schedule showed the maximum discount offered to new
customers was 70%, for five years or more with no claims. So having 13 years without a
claim made no difference. It thought the step-back process was made clear in the policy 
booklet. And as it had given Mr B a letter to show that he had 13 years NCD before taking 
out the policy with Soteria, it didnt think it had acted unreasonably. It said any other insurer 
would understand what the situation was.
I issued a provisional decision, not upholding Mr Bs complaint, based on these points:
I didnt think the online details made it clear enough that the maximum discount from 
Soteria, regardless of any previous NCD earned by a consumer elsewhere  was 
five years (rising to six) after one year with no claims on the policy. Nor did I think  
Soterias step-back process was made clear enough. 
I thought Mr B had misunderstood the NCD situation with Soteria - and that he would 
have looked elsewhere for cover had it been clear  so I considered whether hed 
been prejudiced. I noted that he got Soterias full 70% discount and that the step-
back of two years NCD after one claim was standard.  And I took into account that 
although Soteria only provided proof of three years NCD for Mr B to take to his new 
insurer, it had also provided a letter explaining the situation, so he wouldnt lose out. 
I thought it was reasonable to expect another insurer to accept such evidence from 
Soteria (especially when added to Mr Bs 13-year proof of NCD).
I said the high premium Mr B was charged by his new insurer would partly have been 
based on the fact that there was an open claim on his record at the time  which, if 
resolved in his favour, would lead to an adjustment in the new premium.   
As I thought Soteria had acted reasonably in providing the evidence it did to Mr B for 
future insurers, I didnt think it would be fair to ask it to do more.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Soteria said it had nothing to add 
and Mr B didnt respond at all.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any comment on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them. For the reasons set out above, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman