DRN-3374134
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by TM Advances Limited TM Advances, 
which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
TM Advances provided Mr S with a personal loan for £2000 on 22 December 2015. The term 
of the loan was 2 years and the monthly repayment was £215. Mr S has repaid the loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Did TM Advances carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that TM Advances asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. I can see that it 
says it verified the income that Mr S received each month and then made a note of his 
expenditure.  
I can see from an income and expenditure form that it completed at the time, that total 
amount of income received came to around £2434 a month. TM Advances then says it 
assessed Mr Ss expenditure to be around £2095. After the instalment amount of £215 for 
this loan was deducted, it left him with about £124 disposable income for the month. 
I have looked at the checks made by TM Advances and am currently minded to consider, 
that at the very least it should have carried out further checks to satisfy itself that Mr S could 
sustainably make the repayments when each one fell due. I make this conclusion after 
considering the length of the loan, the amount due to be repaid and the small amount of 
disposable income that Mr S had left after the loan repayment is deducted. It wouldnt have 
taken too much unexpected spend for Mr S to struggle to meet his commitments. In addition, 
the credit search results that TM Advances carried out showed that Mr S had £29,828 in 
unsecured debt to repay. This represents almost a years income for Mr S. So, I think TM 
Advances should have carried out further checks to ensure the loan repayments were 
sustainable. 
So, as I have concluded that TM Advances needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TM Advances that Mr S would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
TM Advances was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr S have provided for the weeks leading up to his application for the loan. Having done so, 
its clear Mr S wouldnt have been able to afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Mr B 
was gambling regularly and, in his circumstances, heavily at the time he applied for the loan. 
Mrs Ss bank statements also showed that he had a reliance on short term lending too. 
I have looked through the statements and can see that from 22 October up to the day he 
asked for this loan, Mr S had 9 payday loans deposited into his account. These were 
deposited regularly with his last being the day before he requested this loan. I can see more 
likely than not that he was using payday loans to cover a shortfall in his income, due to him 
gambling. During the same period, he spent £5100 in 26 gambling transactions. Mr S was 
having significant problems with his finances at the time he contacted TM Advances. In 
these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to repay 
the loan without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown TM Advances that Mr S would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that TM Advances failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr S.
So, I am currently minded to conclude that TM Advances needs to put things right for the 
reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. TM Advances responded and asked for an ombudsman to 
review Mr Ss complaint again but it had no further comments. Mr S also responded to 
say he was happy with the findings and also had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, TM Advances now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. TM Advances should:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr S was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr S to the date of settlement; remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file because of the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman