DRN-3853581
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J believe HSBC UK Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by agreeing an overdraft and 
subsequent limit increases on an account they had.
What happened
On 17 July 2008, HSBC provided Mrs and Mr J with an overdraft facility on their account. 
Initially HSBC approved an overdraft limit of £1,500, which was increased to £2,250 in June 
2012  almost four years later. Just over two years after the increase, in September 2014, 
the overdraft limit was again increased, this time to £3,000.
The overdraft limit was increased twice in 2015, to £3,500 in June and then to £4,000 in 
December; followed by two further increases in April 2016, to £4,200 and then to £5,000. 
However, the overdraft limit was decreased to £3,000 in August 2016, before being put back 
to £5,000 in September 2016. An application for a further increase in the overdraft limit was 
rejected by HSBC in December 2017, as they didnt think it was affordable for Mrs and Mr J.
Mrs and Mr J complained to HSBC that granting the initial overdraft, and the subsequent 
increases, was irresponsible as they were vulnerable and believe this shouldve been 
identified. They also said that this resulted in them being caught in a long-term debt-trap, 
which eventually resulted in them entering into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement.
HSBC didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Mrs and Mr J brought their complaint to us 
for investigation.
HSBC said their process was to check the credit file, previous account conduct, and 
affordability. And they were able to provide information theyd checked for some of the limit 
increases, but not all of them. Because of this, the investigator said he couldnt fairly say that 
HSBC had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for the initial overdraft and for 
every limit increase.
The investigator asked Mrs and Mr J to provide further information about their financial 
circumstances at the time of the initial overdraft approval and each of the limit increases. 
And, while they provided a copy of their credit file, they were unable/unwilling to provide any 
further information. The investigator said that the credit file didnt show what HSBC wouldve 
seen at the time of each approval. And, without further information, it wasnt possible to say 
what HSBC ought to have discovered had they carried out reasonable checks.
Because of this, the investigator wasnt persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly.
Mrs and Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. They thought that a rising overdraft limit was 
evidence of financial difficulties, as they were unable to use the overdraft in line with how it 
was designed. They also thought that the investigator saying that HSBC didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks is also evidence HSBC did wrong, especially as they 
ended up in financial difficulties as a result. And they thought that this alone is sufficient to 
uphold the complaint.
In addition to this, Mrs and Mr J have said that the overdraft is part of a wider complaint 
about HSBC, that includes all of their loans and credit cards, that ultimately ended with them 
in severe financial difficulties. As such, theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
and Mr J would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did HSBC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs and 
Mr J could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mrs and Mr 
Js application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs and Mr J 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
HSBC have confirmed that, when considering an initial overdraft or limit increase, they take 
into consideration the information held by the credit reference agencies, as well as the 
conduct of the account and affordability.
Ive seen the information HSBC checked for the limit increases in September 2014, June 
2015, and April 2016. In each case they checked Mrs and Mr Js credit file, where they found 
no issues; as well as checking the conduct of the overdraft, credit cards, and loans Mrs and 
Mr J had. They also noted Mr Js declared annual income (between £43,200 and £47,500) 
and Mrs Js declared annual income (between £600 and £3,640).
However, Ive not seen any evidence that HSBC checked Mrs and Mr Js expenditure as part 
of these checks, nor have HSBC been able to provide any evidence of the checks they did 
for the initial overdraft approval or any of the other limit increases.
Even though, by declining a request to further increase the overdraft in December 2017, 
HSBC have shown that their checks were properly used to make risk based lending 
decisions; given the lack of information around all of the checks for all of the lending 
decisions, Im not satisfied that HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in 
every instance.Ive also noted Mr Js comment about this lack of evidenced checks proving HSBC acted 
unreasonably. However, I dont agree this is the case. Firstly, given the time thats passed, 
and the requirements not to keep data longer than necessary, its not unreasonable that 
HSBC cant provide all the details weve asked for. But this doesnt automatically mean 
theyve done anything wrong when approving the lending.
Whats more, just because HSBC cant show they carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, it doesnt mean that, had these checks been carried out, they would automatically 
have shown that Mrs and Mr J couldnt sustainably afford the overdraft or its increases.
As such, Ive gone on to consider what these checks wouldve shown.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs and Mr J could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Mrs and Mr J have provided a copy of a credit check dated September 2022. While this 
provides information on their current finances, none of the information on this check pre-
dates October 2016. And, as the last approved increase in the overdraft limit was in 
September 2016, its not possible from this to identify what HSBC wouldve seen when 
approving the overdraft and/or any limit increases.
Mrs and Mr J have been asked to provide copies of their bank statements, or other evidence 
of their income and expenditure, from the time of the overdraft approval and limit increases. 
From this I could reconstruct their likely financial circumstances at the time, to see whether 
the approved lending was affordable. However, they have been unable/unwilling to provide 
this information.
As such, Ive gone on to consider the limited evidence I do have. As this was an overdraft, 
HSBC would have access to the conduct of Mrs and Mr Js account. And this would show 
them if there were any obvious financial difficulties, for example the overdraft limit being 
regularly exceeded, the account never going into a credit balance, missed payments, and 
bounced direct debits etc. And, as HSBC declined a further limit increase in December 2017, 
its reasonable to presume that earlier limit increases wouldve also been declined if the 
conduct of the account was as described.
In addition to this, the only reason for any limit increase Ive seen was for the second 
increase in April 2016. And this was for home improvements. I consider it more likely than 
not that someone who was in financial difficulties would not be undertaking a series of home 
improvements that required borrowing to fund them.
Whats more, Ive seen that Mrs and Mr J advised HSBC that they were in financial 
difficulties in the latter part of 2019, after they both found themselves out of work. And this 
was three years after the last overdraft limit increase.
Ive noted Mr Js comments that an increase in an overdraft limit itself is an indication of 
financial difficulties. And HSBC shouldve seen this and refused any increases. While this 
may be the case, there are many reasons why an overdraft limit increase is needed, for 
example the home improvements Mrs and Mr J told HSBC they were doing in April 2016. 
So, I dont think HSBC wouldve been acting reasonably by automatically declining any limit 
increase just because it was asked for, and assuming this meant their customers were 
unable to manage their finances.Finally, Mr J has said we should consider the overdraft limit increases holistically with their 
loans and credit cards through HSBC. However, the limited evidence I have seen shows that 
this was a factor considered by HSBC when making their decisions. And without any 
evidence to show Mrs and Mr Js affordability, Im not satisfied that what I do have shows 
HSBC acted irresponsibly by either approving the original overdraft, or by approving any of 
the credit limit increases.
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman