DRN-3502364
The complaint
Mr B complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his vehicle.
 
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in August 2018. 
The agreement was for 24 months, with the vehicle due to be returned in August 2020. 
Mr B said he tried to contact MBFS to arrange collection of the vehicle prior to the contract 
end date. He sent MBFS an email on 14 August 2020 to say hed previously booked a home 
collection but had received another email asking what hed like to do with the vehicle at the 
end of the contract. So, he asked MBFS to contact him if collection hadnt already been 
arranged. 
Mr B said he received an automated reply from MBFS setting out that they were dealing with 
a large number of enquiries as a result of the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19) and they 
were prioritising vulnerable customers, so he waited for them to contact him as suggested in 
the email. 
The vehicle was collected by agents on behalf of MBFS in October 2020, and MBFS sent Mr 
B a summary of charges setting out an excess mileage charge of £390.66 and a charge for 
additional days hire of £1,149.10. 
Mr B complained to MBFS in November 2020. He said he expected the excess mileage 
charge, but asked MBFS to remove the additional days hire charge, because hed tried to 
return the vehicle on time, had received no contact and hadnt used the car since the end of 
the contract as hed replaced it with a new one in August 2020. 
MBFS sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in January 2021. They said theyd 
received no correspondence from Mr B prior to the contract ending, and the collection 
agents had tried to contact Mr B on a number of occasions to collect the vehicle but had 
received no response, so the charge for additional days hire was payable. They didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said he 
had tried to arrange collection of the car, but thought he was waiting whilst MBFS prioritised 
vulnerable customers as set out in their email in August 2020. Mr B said he had replaced the 
car and so hadnt used it after the contract end date, and he had a working voicemail facility 
so disputed that the collection agents had tried to contact him and been unable to leave a 
voicemail. 
MBFS said Mr B had emailed them from an unauthorised email address in August 2020, and 
theyd told him they werent able to answer his query. 
Our investigator gave his view that MBFS had fairly tried to contact Mr B to arrange 
collection of the car. He didnt think MBFS had acted unfairly in not responding to an 
unauthorised email address, and he thought the charges had been calculated fairly in line 
with the agreement. He didnt ask MBFS to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said MBFS ignoring the email wasnt the right option. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
As the agreement sets out the legally binding terms, Ive had a look at this. The agreement 
requires either payment of an optional purchase fee, or for the vehicle to be returned to 
MBFS when it ends. The agreement sets out that: 
If you fail to return the vehicle when required to do so to the agreed location, additional days
hire charges calculated on a pro-rata basis of the monthly payment will be payable by you up 
until and including the day on which the vehicle is returned to us.
So, Im satisfied that the agreement allows MBFS to charge for additional days hire where 
the vehicle hasnt been returned. 
Mr Bs agreement ended in August 2020. Mr B says he contacted MBFS prior to this to book 
a collection and received no response from them. MBFS said they received no contact from 
Mr B, and he wouldve been unable to book a collection thought their online portal at that 
time as this wasnt an option. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr B sent MBFS an email on 14 August 2020 to say hed received 
contact from them asking what he wanted to do with the vehicle at the end of the agreement. 
Mr B set out in this email that he believed hed already arranged collection, and he asked 
MBFS to contact him. Im persuaded by the evidence I do have that Mr B contacted MBFS 
prior to the end of the agreement to let them know that he intended to return the vehicle, but 
Mr B hasnt demonstrated how he initially arranged the vehicle collection. 
Mr B received an automated response to his email on 14 August 2020 which set out that 
MBFS were dealing with a high volume of queries as a result of covid-19. I appreciate that 
Mr B took this to mean his query was in hand, and so he waited for further contact from 
MBFS. 
Ive seen evidence that MBFS responded to Mr B on 20 August 2020. They let him know that 
the email address hed used to contact them wasnt authorised on his account, and so they 
wouldnt be able to answer his query. This email asked Mr B to call MBFS and provided 
options for him to update his contact details.
This was a direct response to Mr Bs email, rather than an automated reply. And as Mr B 
was waiting for further contact from MBFS, Im satisfied that it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr B to get in touch with them following this email. I havent seen any evidence that Mr B tried to contact MBFS or their collection agents after this date, or that he updated his email 
address.
Mr B said he doesnt answer calls from unknown numbers, so he cant be sure whether the 
collection agents contacted him, but he said he had a working voicemail facility, and they 
didnt leave a voicemail or send any written correspondence to him. Mr B said he cant recall 
how the collection of the vehicle was eventually arranged. 
Ive seen evidence of the call logs provided by the collection agents, and whilst I cant be 
sure of whether Mr Bs voicemail facility was in operation, or if a voicemail was left, I am 
satisfied that the collection agents attempted to contact Mr B on seven occasions during 
September 2020 and October 2020. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr B returned these calls or tried to contact MBFS or the 
collection agents. As Mr B believed he was waiting for someone to contact him about 
collection of the car, and he was aware it needed to be returned at the end of the agreement, 
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr B to make contact again during this time. 
Im satisfied that MBFS, or their collection agents, fairly attempted to contact Mr B in order to 
arrange collection of the car, and that it was returned 57 days after the end of the contract 
period. 
The agreement allows MBFS to charge for additional days hire, and Im satisfied that the 
charge of £1,149.10 has been fairly calculated in line with the agreement, and so Mr B 
remains liable for this charge.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman