DRN-2386124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining about the way (Aviva) has settled a claim they made following 
a water leak.
What happened
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs H discovered water penetrating their recently installed wood floors. 
They contacted Aviva, and it was found to be a faulty joint in their pipework that was leaking. 
Aviva agreed to replace the damaged flooring, as well as carrying out some other repairs.
The flooring was ordered by a specialist flooring company on Avivas behalf. Mr and Mrs H 
provided a copy of an invoice from late 2017 which specified the original flooring that had 
been used.
Once it had been laid Mr and Mrs H complained that it didnt match their original flooring and 
was much more rustic looking than their original flooring  it had many knots and variations 
in colour, and where it butted up against original floors it clearly didnt match.
Aviva said that Mr and Mrs H had chosen the flooring and had had several opportunities to 
say they were unhappy with it during and immediately after fitting but hadnt. Aviva also 
pointed out that theyd waited several months before raising the floor as an issue. It said it 
had fulfilled its obligations and wouldnt do any more.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us for review.
Our investigator thought Aviva should do more than it had. He noted the clear differences in 
the flooring, and that Mr and Mrs Hs only involvement in choosing the replacement flooring 
was to provide details of the original. He thought Aviva should replace the floor, pay Mr and 
Mrs H £75 for a report it had previously said it would pay for and also pay £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused.
Aviva doesnt think thats fair. It maintains that Mr and Mrs H chose the floor and were shown 
what it would look like before it was fitted, and had been content. It says its being asked to 
re-do work because Mr and Mrs H decided they didnt like it several months after it was 
completed  and that might set a precedent for other claims where customers simply 
changed their minds.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Aviva thinks the opinion given by our investigator might set a precedent for 
other claims. I can assure Aviva that my decision is only about this particular complaint and 
Ive focussed solely on the information provided by both parties.
Ive looked at the photos provided by both Aviva and Mr and Mrs H and I dont think the old 
and new floors match. There are many more knots in the new flooring than there were in the 
old, and the overall colour doesnt appear to match either.
Aviva says Mr and Mrs H picked the flooring, although it hasnt sent any evidence to support 
this statement. Mr and Mrs H say they simply gave the fitter the details of the original floor 
used and expected that the same flooring would be used again. Theyve sent in copies of the 
relevant invoices which gives details of the flooring. Im more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs 
recollections than Avivas comments here.
It might be that the fitter ordered the correct flooring and the variation is simply because 
different batches of flooring  particularly real wood floors  do vary. But the differences here 
are obvious, and Aviva hasnt shown us what flooring was actually ordered. 
Aviva also says Mr and Mrs H had several opportunities to check the floor was right. It says 
the boxes of planks were left opened in the home for four days before fitting, and Mr and Mrs 
H could have checked them. Theres no evidence to support this statement. Mr and Mrs H 
say they were delivered unopened and stayed that way until the fitter arrived. That seems 
reasonable to me. Aviva also says the fitter laid some of the planks loose on the floor so Mr 
and Mrs H could check they were acceptable, and its sent a photo in to show this was done. 
Mr and Mrs H dont remember this  and say there were no conversations with the fitter 
about any differences in the flooring and if this was acceptable. Ive looked at the photo and 
it seems to be of planks that dont show the number of knots etc that appear in the floor 
overall. Im not intending to give this point much weight either way, because whether or not 
Mr and Mrs H saw some planks before the whole floor was laid or not, I cant say the 
differences were clear or that they knew this and accepted it.
Mr and Mrs H were asked by Aviva to get a report from the original installer, and his opinion 
is that the new floor isnt as good quality as the old, and that there is a notable difference in 
the sizes and appearance of planks used. He suggests some of the differences could have 
been minimised if more care had been taken during the fitting. Overall he thinks this isnt a 
like for like replacement floor. Aviva says this report says the floor was well fitted and that as 
it was accepted at the time so it need do no more. I think the fitter, although he did say the 
floor was well fitted, raised a number of other points as outlined above. 
I think, taking both this report and the before and after photos, Mr and Mrs Hs new floor 
doesnt match the old.
Aviva also says Mr and Mrs H didnt complain about the floor for some months. Mr and Mrs 
H say they raised the number of knots in the flooring whilst it was being fitted and were told it 
had been ordered using the details they had provided. They say when they called Aviva they 
were told to wait until all the works were completed before taking this any further. They say 
they can provide evidence to support this, but I dont think thats necessary. I have no reason 
to doubt what they say  and it is common for work to be completed before issues are dealt 
with, even if thats not always the best way to put things right. 
Additionally, Mr and Mrs H tell me they had to ask to have a lot of the repair work re-done by 
Avivas contractor as it was so poor. From what Ive seen, rectifying the other mistakes in the 
repairs took several weeks if not months. Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs H waited too long 
before raising the flooring issue again with Aviva, whether that was through contractors or 
directly with Aviva. 
Putting things rightI dont think Aviva has done all it should here to indemnify Mr and Mrs H for their loss, as 
they now have a floor that isnt the same as the one they had previously. I think it should put 
that right by replacing the floor with one acceptable to Mr and Mrs H, or pay them the cash 
equivalent of doing so.
I also think Aviva should pay the cost of the report as promised  if it hasnt already done so, 
and the compensation recommended by our investigator to make up for the inconvenience 
and disappointment Mr and Mrs H have suffered.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Replace the floor with one that meets Mr and Mrs Hs requirements subject to the 
terms and conditions in the policy or pay the cash equivalent of Aviva doing the work.
Pay £75 for the report Mr and Mrs H obtained at Avivas request as it said it would
Pay Mr and Mrs H £250 compensation for the way it handled this claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman