DRN-3726541
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) who delayed payment 
following a non-fault claim, under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted Admiral to make a claim following a leak from an adjoining property, that 
caused damage to some contents in his home, including a bed that his family member slept 
on. 
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to assess the damage. During the course of their 
visit, Mr S said that the LA believed that the claim was for buildings damage and not solely 
contents. But the LA told Mr S that there might be a slight under insurance issue and that the 
excess of £700 was payable on the claim - despite the claim being a non-fault one.
After the LA visit, Mr S contacted Admiral to see if it was able to offer alternative 
accommodation, as he said that the bedroom where the damage had been, was 
uninhabitable. Admiral explained that because Mr S still had use of the bathroom and 
kitchen, it was unable to offer alternative accommodation. 
Soon afterwards, Admiral concluded that there were no issues with the under-insurance 
matter and proceeded to review the claim. Mr S contacted Admiral for an update and was 
given the settlement figure and told that the claim was settled.
Mr S raised a complaint with Admiral, as he felt that there were delays throughout the claims 
process and that the level of service that he had received from them was poor. In that he 
had to continually chase for updates, and he had to take time off work to deal with the claim.
In its final response, Admiral partially upheld Mr S complaint. It apologised for Mr S having 
to make the phone calls that he did and apologised for what its LA thought about the claim. 
But it didnt accept that there was a delay, as it said that it had dealt with the settlement 
within 13 working days. It also said that the case handler had maintained contact with Mr S 
throughout the claim, via phone calls and emails. It offered £130 compensation to cover the 
cost of the phone calls that Mr S made, and any inconvenience caused. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that there werent 
avoidable delays and that Admiral had dealt with Mr S claim within a reasonable timeframe.  
Her view was that the excess payment that Mr S had to pay was applicable, as there was a 
claim on the policy, and it was classed as an uninsured loss. She said that it wasnt 
reasonable for Mr S to have taken time off work, as the claim was for contents only. And she 
concluded that the £130 offered by way of compensation was fair. So, there was nothing 
further she could reasonably ask Admiral to do. 
Admiral accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that 13 days may not seem a lot but when 
his relative had to sleep on the sofa, this wasnt ideal. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr S, but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
It seems to me that Mr S complaints main issues are, the payment of excess on the claim, 
the length of time that the claim took and the consequential loss (namely loss of earnings) 
Mr S suffered from as a result of the claim. 
Mr S complains that he had to pay the £700 excess charge on a claim that he said wasnt his 
fault.  I understand that a leak occurred from a neighbouring property, into his property that 
caused damage to his contents. The evidence that I have read is that once the neighbour 
had been informed about the leak, which they werent aware of, steps where taken to get the 
leak resolved. But Mr S made a claim on his policy for the damage caused. 
I have had a look at Mr S policy to see what his and Admirals obligations were under it. The 
terms and conditions provide the following:
Your responsibilities:
As well as the individual sections you are covered under, it is important that you also read 
the general conditions on page 36 and the general exceptions on page 34. You must pay the
excess shown in your policy documents for each claim we accept. (Page 8) 
So, Im satisfied that where a claim is made, such as Mr S made, an excess charge is 
applicable. Admiral said that because the neighbour had promptly carried out the repair of 
the leak, it was unable to recoup the excess charge that Mr S paid. Consequently, I cant say 
that Admiral were unreasonable in requesting the excess charge, as a claim was made. 
I have next considered the length of time that the claim took. Mr S said that the claim took 
around 27 days, from start to finish. But having looked at the timeline, the claim took around 
13 working days from the assessment of the damage, until the claim was settled. 
Whilst I understand that there was an issue with what the LA had arrived to assess, Admiral 
were still entitled to assess the damage and review the claim. Because of this, I dont agree 
that there were avoidable delays. Admiral sent a LA who assessed the damage and wrote a 
report. The claim was reviewed by Admiral and in particular its underwriters, which was due 
to a concern about under insurance. But once this was resolved a settlement offer was made 
and the claim settled. 
Whilst I understand that Mr S living conditions were uncomfortable, I cant agree that 
Admiral settled the claim in an untimely manner. Turning to Mr S lost earnings. Mr S home insurance policy doesnt give cover for loss of 
earnings  that is, its not something hes entitled to claim for under his contract of insurance. 
And I must also say any home insurance is going to involve a policy holder in some 
inconvenience including, almost inevitably, taking time off work. But, I note that Mr S said 
that the damage that had occurred in his home was limited to contents only, And Im pleased 
that there was no structural damage to his home that wouldve required Mr S to manage 
building work. Given there was no building works required, Mr S hasnt provided enough 
evidence to show why it wouldve been necessary for him to have taken time off work in 
these circumstances.
In addition, given that the claim settled within 13 days, I cant agree that it was fair for Mr S 
to have taken time away from work to deal with the claim. Consequently, I dont think Mr S 
took reasonable actions to mitigate his losses. And the compensation that Admiral offered, 
some of which was for the calls that Mr S said he made, I think was reasonable for the 
impact of Admirals error. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr S will be, Im not 
satisfied that Admiral took an unreasonably long period to settle his claim. I also think that as 
he made a claim, the excess payment was applicable. Finally, Mr S hasnt provided enough 
evidence to show why he wouldve needed to take time off work. So, I cant ask Admiral to 
reasonably do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation of £130 which Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited has offered, for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman