DRN-1855468
The complaint
Mr A says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
in 1987 when he took out a further advance on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr A took out a PPI policy when he applied for a further advance of £2,000 in 1987. He paid 
a monthly amount of £10 for the policy to give him cover in case of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. He said he wasnt given the correct information about the policy and was 
coerced to get the PPI in order to get the further advance. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint because:
I think Bradford & Bingley made Mr A aware that he had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Bradford & Bingley most likely recommended the PPI to Mr A, and it seems to have 
been right for him because he was eligible to buy PPI, it seems affordable at the time 
and he wasnt affected by the things the policy didnt cover. 
I dont know if Bradford & Bingley explained the cost of the policy clearly enough. But 
even if it hadnt done so, it seems affordable at the time and so I think Mr A would still 
have bought it. 
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
 
Ive taken into account Mr As comments, including what he said about being coerced into 
buying the PPI and not being given the correct information. But these points dont change 
my conclusion. Mr A hasnt told us exactly what was said that day and I havent seen any 
evidence of pressure on the documents Ive looked at. And I think Mr A had a need for the 
cover, so I think he probably had enough information to make a decision about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman