DRN-1504485
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the loans he took out with Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as 
Uncle Buck). He says Uncle Buck never checked whether the loans were affordable or 
asked about his circumstances.
What happened
Mr S took out six loans with Uncle Buck between June 2017 and January 2019. A summary 
of Mr Ss borrowing is shown below: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 23/06/2017 15/07/2017 3 £250 £120.01
2 22/07/2017 13/10/2017 3 £300 £146.63
3 15/10/2017 18/11/2017 3 £500 £254.45
4 20/01/2018 13/07/2018 6 £800 £255.83
5 16/07/2018 15/01/2018 6 £900 £299.55
6 20/01/2019 15/08/2019 6 £700 £224.54
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought all the loans shouldnt have been 
given. Uncle Buck disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website and Ive 
used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Uncle Buck lent to Mr S. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Uncle Buck. 
I am not quoting all the specific regulations here, because I would expect Uncle Buck to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, 
which set these rules out in more detail.It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Uncle Buck told us that, when the first loan was taken, it asked Mr S for his income and 
expenses. It also carried out a credit search. 
Ive looked at the results of the credit checks Uncle Buck carried out before agreeing loan 1. 
Although there were no defaults or delinquent accounts, I think the high number of accounts with outstanding balances might have caused Uncle Buck some concern. I can see on the 
checks that in addition to the one short term loan Uncle Buck acknowledges, there were 
several active unsecured loan accounts with repayments to be made over a number of 
months. The sums and repayment periods (generally between 3 and 6 months) involved 
suggests to me these were likely to be high cost short term lending. But, in any event, I think 
the large number of outstanding loans shown on Mr Ss credit check should have been 
sufficient to have prompted Uncle Buck to have gathered some information from Mr S - 
specifically about his other short-term loans. 
From the information Mr S has provided, I can see he was using at least four other short-
term lenders and had more than one loan with some of those lenders. So, he was already 
committed to repaying these loans around the same time as hed be repaying loan 1. I think 
that the extent of Mr Ss other short-term borrowing should have put Uncle Buck on notice 
that he was having serious problems managing his money. So, I dont think that Uncle Buck 
should have given loan 1 to Mr S.
I note that Uncle Buck says Mr Ss disposable income was quite high, indicating he would 
have the capacity to cover expenses that he may have omitted to tell Uncle Buck about.  But 
as I said above Uncle Buck was required to establish whether the loan repayment was 
sustainable and not just whether it was affordable on a pound and pence calculation.  
Proportionate checks would have shown Uncle Buck that the picture regarding other short 
term lending was similar at the time loans 2, 3 and 4 were agreed and so if Uncle Buck had 
carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that Mr S would be unlikely to 
sustainable repay these loans as well. And, as a responsible lender, I dont think it would 
have agreed loans 2-4 either.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Uncle Buck ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out five loans within 13 months. Whilst there was a 
non-borrowing period between loan 3 and 4, by loan 5 Mr S had been indebted to 
Uncle Buck for almost 11 months of the 13-month period.
 
So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Ss first loan was for £250 and loan 5 was for £900.  At this point Uncle Buck 
ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle Buck. Loan 6 was 
taken out 18 months after Mr Ss first. And it was almost three times the amount. Mr 
S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 and 6 as well loans 1 - 4 and Uncle Buck 
should put things right.
Putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should have provided loans 1-6. In order to put things right Uncle 
Buck should: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans, but not including anything Uncle Buck has already refunded. 
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C) Pay Mr S the total of A plus B. 
D) Remove any adverse information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation 
to loans 1-4. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Uncle Buck should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Ss credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP 
(trading as Uncle Buck) to refund him as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman