DRN-3654966
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd gave him incorrect and contradictory information about 
referral fees that were due to him.
What happened
Mr S says that he referred two of his friends to Revolut but was told he was ineligible for the 
referral fees due to internal policies. After one of the friends posted on social media, Mr S 
says Revolut blamed human error and paid the fees. Mr S says hed like £1,000 
compensation for the whole day he spent communicating with the complaints department.
Revolut initially said Mr S was also blocked from the current, and any future, referral 
campaigns. Following contact from this service, however, Revolut accepted this was an error 
and lifted the limitation. It also offered £50 for the inconvenience it caused.
Our investigator considered the offer of £50 compensation was a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience and distress caused by Revoluts actions.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that £50 is not an acceptable resolution for the hours 
spent trying to resolve the issues. He says his equivalent time at work is worth over £1,000. 
He added that he feared Revolut may be scamming other customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Revolut made a mistake here, but I now need to consider what, if any, 
compensation would be appropriate.
Ive read through Mr Ss online chats and I can see he was trying to resolve the issues from 
10.24am on 10 April 2022. Although initially explaining that Mr S was ineligible for referral 
fees, I can see that, after further investigation, Revolut paid both fees by 1.47pm the same 
day. I dont consider thats an unreasonable timescale to remedy its error, but I accept what 
Mr S says about the time he spent pursuing this. I also acknowledge that Revoluts letter 
about being blocked from the referral campaigns would have caused Mr S further distress.
That said, as our website says: Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free 
and we wouldnt award for things that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of 
everyday life. So just because theres been a mistake it doesnt necessarily follow that we 
would always award compensation  especially when the impact is minimal.
In this case, I consider the impact on Mr S was relatively minimal and, although I accept he 
says his time alone is worth significantly more than the compensation he has been awarded, 
this service cannot compensate customers at a rate equivalent to their professional fees 
when they are pursuing a personal complaint.
So, in all the circumstances of the complaint, I find Revoluts offer of £50 to be fair and 
reasonable.
Finally, this service can only consider individual complaints. If Mr S is concerned with 
Revoluts wider business practices, then he should contact the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My decision is that I find Revolut Ltd should pay Mr S £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman