DRN-2878239
The complaint
Mr R is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC say that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided Mr R with unsuitable advice in 2001.
What happened
Mr R met with HSBC in July 2001 and was advised to invest £20,000 into a monthly feeder 
income ISA. This was an investment that had a minimum five-year term but because of 
declining health reasons, Mr R withdrew the funds in October 2002 and received 
£16,685.15. 
Mr R contacted the CMC who complained on his behalf in 2020. The CMC said that Mr Rs 
attitude to risk wasnt fully assessed and the level of risk was inappropriate. The CMC also 
said Mr R was invested into a single fund so there was no diversification and his future 
needs and objectives were not considered.
HSBC said that the complaint had been raised too late and said it wasnt a complaint they 
could consider.
The CMC referred the complaint to the service and an ombudsman said that it had been 
made within the timeframes permitted within the rules and was a complaint that the service 
could consider.
An investigator considered the merits of the complaint and didnt think that HSBC had acted 
unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I realise that this is not the decision he would have wished 
for and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
When providing advice, a business must look at the consumers personal and financial 
circumstances and provide appropriate recommendations based on this information.
In the CMCs submission to the service, they say that his personal circumstances and future 
needs were not considered, and this led to unsuitable advice being provided. I have 
reviewed the fact find information from the initial meeting in August 2001 and Ill take each of 
the points raised and answer them in turn.
Mr Rs attitude to risk wasnt fully assessed and HSBC failed to fully know our customer 
The fact find document notes that Mr R had a balanced attitude to risk. As I wasnt at the 
meeting, Im unable to say for certain how this classification was arrived at but I think that Mr 
R would have been presented with a range of risk categories and he would have been asked 
which one best suited his attitude when it came to assessing the risk he was willing to take.
A balanced attitude to risk is described in the fact find as moderate risk to capital but 
potentially better returns over medium to longer terms.
Mr R had said in the fact find that his financial objective and priority was to maximise 
investment returns so I think that this attitude to risk was in line with meeting his financial 
objective.
Overall, I think that the fact find records Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances and 
would give HSBC enough information to know the client and provide advice based on the 
information.
The level of risk within the investments was inappropriate 
Mr R had said that he had a balanced attitude to risk and so the recommendation made by 
HSBC should have taken this into consideration and be consistent with the level of risk that 
Mr R was willing to take.
HSBC recommended that Mr R invest into a Monthly Income Feeder ISA and within the 
recommendation section of the fact find, this is described as a balanced/medium risk fund 
which matches your attitude to risk.
From what I have seen, HSBC recommended an investment which matched the risk that Mr 
R was prepared to take.
The portion of Mr Rs free assets invested into the fund was inappropriate 
The fact find records detailed income and expenditure which shows Mr Rs total income and 
liabilities at the time of the sale. Mr R had a net monthly disposable income of £406 and 
savings of over £30,000. The £20,000 used for the investment was coming from these 
savings so Mr R would still have had over £10,00 which could be called upon in an 
emergency.
From what I have seen, I think that Mr R had disposable income to invest and the 
recommendation was suitable based on this information.
Mr R was invested into a single fund with no diversification 
Due to the passage of time since the sale, there is no information on how the Monthly 
Income Feeder ISA was structured. This information would normally be found in a key 
features document or fund fact sheet.
Ive considered how these types of investments are normally structured and it would be 
highly unlikely to have little or no diversification within the fund  or in other words, I think 
that on balance, the fund would have been spread across different asset classes and would 
have been appropriately diversified to achieve the investment objective.
Mr Rs future needs were not considered I have looked at the fact find and can see that Mr Rs retirement plans and circumstances 
were discussed. Mr Rs health was also discussed and noted. 
HSBC have noted under Protecting lifestyle from critical illness you do not feel that 
protecting yourself against critical illness is necessary, due to your age and the fact that you 
would continue to receive your pension in any event.
As I wasnt at the meeting, I cant be sure what was discussed but this does indicate that 
there was a discussion about future needs.
In summary, I think that HSBC conducted a fact find to look at Mr Rs personal and financial 
circumstances and recommended investments that were suitable and could meet Mr Rs 
financial objectives.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman