DRN-3104867
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
following the transferral of his relationship to RBSs Global Restructuring Group (GRG).  
What happened
Mr E has made this complaint along with an authorised representative. For ease of 
reference, I will refer solely to Mr E as the complainant.
In 2008, Mr E obtained planning permission to convert a barn and develop six other 
properties on his land. RBS provided the finance to allow him to do so. In 2010, as RBSs 
concerns over Mr Es ability to service the borrowing grew, the relationship was transferred 
to a Specialist Relationship Manager (SRM) and then to the GRG.
RBS continued to increase the funding it provided to Mr E to enable the development to 
continue, and by July 2012 the balance outstanding had grown to £480,000. During 2013, to 
reduce borrowing with RBS and with other creditors, Mr E sold several of his other assets.
Work on the development continued throughout 2014 and at RBSs suggestion consultants 
were engaged to review the developments financing and to provide debt repayment options. 
The lending was extended through 2015 and, as properties were sold, the borrowing was 
reduced and then fully repaid in 2016.
In 2018, Mr E raised a complaint with RBS on the basis that he was unhappy with several 
aspects of how his relationship had been managed during the time that it had been assigned 
to the GRG. Specifically, Mr E felt that RBS had:
Suggested that Mr E fund the development through a buy-to-let loan which wasnt 
appropriate
Allowed the overdraft to increase to approximately £474,000 in 2011 without 
conducting affordability checks
Used aggressive bullying tactics and made threats to Mr E that he would have to sell 
off assets below the asset values
Treated Mr E unfairly with regard the distribution of proceeds from the sale of Plot 2
Unfairly charged Mr E a number of fees, including loan fees, valuation fees, and 
management and monitoring fees
RBS looked at Mr Es complaint, but with regards to several aspects of the complaint they 
didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong. But while RBS didnt uphold a number of Mr Es 
complaint points, they did acknowledge that some of the fees had been charged to Mr E at a 
rate higher than they should have been charged, and they made an offer to Mr E to 
reimburse a portion of these fees, as well as other reimbursements, along with interest.
Mr E didnt feel that RBSs response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that RBS had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably regarding Mr Es complaint points and the offers of 
reimbursement that RBs had already made on several of those complaint points. 
However, there was one exception where our investigator felt that RBS should reimburse a 
fee that it hadnt already agreed to, and so our investigator recommended that this complaint 
be upheld in Mr Es favour on that limited basis only.
Mr E remained dissatisfied at the view put forward by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
essentially the same reasons. I realise that this may come as a disappointment to Mr E, and 
I hope that the following provides a clear explanation as to why Ive arrived at the decision 
that I have.
2009 Buy-to-Let loan
In 2009 Mr E was approved for a £355,000 loan from RBS against the security of his 
residential house on a buy-to-let (BTL) basis. The complaint is that the bank suggested the 
BTL loan on the residential property, despite the fact that Mr E was living in it.
However, it seems clear that RBS only agreed to a BTL loan after they were informed by   
Mr E that he wouldnt be living in the property. Indeed, the very purpose of the BTL loan 
included that a portion of the borrowed amount be used to refurbish the property in 
preparation for it to be let, and that the proceeds of the let property would be used to repay 
the BTL loan.
It also must be noted that Mr E had attempted to obtain a standard mortgage on the property 
before the BTL loan was agreed, and that he had been unable to arrange one either with 
RBS or via alternative providers through a broker, largely because his income at that time 
didnt meet the lending criteria of any loan providers such that any offer of a standard 
mortgage was forthcoming.
Mr E has stated that he was living in the residential property during the time that it was being 
refurbished, and that RBS were aware of this. The correspondence Ive seen from RBS 
doesnt support this view, but rather appears to confirm that RBS were operating under the 
impression that Mr E wasnt living in the house and was residing between an onsite caravan 
and the barn while the residential property was being refurbished with a view to being let. 
Indeed, it appears from RBSs notes that Mr E was registered as residing in the barn so that 
it could qualify as his residential property, and so that when the barn was sold - having been 
converted - Mr E could avoid paying capital gains tax on the sale proceeds. 
half living in the barn/caravan on site to avoid capital gains tax once sold (needs 
to be there 12 months but already spent 6 months whilst upgrading house. 
As such, Im satisfied that if it were the case that Mr E was living in the residential house, he 
was most likely doing so without the knowledge of RBS, who it appears believed that Mr E was living between the barn and the caravan and had the intention of refurbishing the 
residential property and then letting it to tenants  and because of this, I cant conclude that 
the BTL loan that RBS gave to Mr E was inappropriate. 
Mr E also feels that RBS was in breach of financial regulations surrounding the affordability 
of the loan, and specifically that RBS didnt take steps to ensure that the loan was affordable 
as demonstrated by the affordability of the loan being dependent on the possibility of the 
house being let, and that Mr E wouldnt have been able to afford the BTL loan repayments if 
a tenant for the refurbished house couldnt be found.
I can appreciate Mr Es position here, to a degree. But this service isnt a court of law or a 
regulatory body. Rather, this service focuses on whether its felt that a fair outcome has 
occurred, and it wouldnt be the case that this service would look to uphold a complaint 
about a breach of regulations if no unfair outcome is considered to have arisen as a result. 
And, in this instance, given that given that it appears to be the case that RBS agreed to the 
BTL loan on the basis that the house would be refurbished and let, and that the proceeds of 
the letting would be used to repay the loan, Im satisfied that RBS did have a reasonable 
high level rationale to approve a BTL loan and that it wasnt unfair of them to have done so. 
Furthermore, given the length of time that has elapsed since the time of the loan, I dont feel 
that the absence of further point of agreement documents or records that could potentially 
cast further light on this matter - including any potential discussions surrounding affordability 
 means that it necessarily follows that the BTL loan wasnt affordable for Mr E. 
Indeed, given that Im satisfied that the high-level rationale for the BTL loan was sound, and 
given the length of time that has elapsed since the point of agreement and the 
understandable absence of records from that time, I feel that the burden of proof is on Mr E 
to demonstrate the unaffordability of the loan, rather than for RBS to still have record of the 
loans affordability. And ultimately, I dont feel that the conjectures made by Mr E in this 
regard provide such a demonstration.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly say that RBS acted unreasonably in 
providing Mr E with this BTL loan, which was intended to be repaid via the proceeds of a let 
property, and it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
2011 overdraft balance
Mr E has complained that RBS allowed his overdraft balance to grow to approximately 
£474,000 in February 2011, and that RBS didnt conduct any affordability checks before 
allowing the balance to grow to such a high level.
The overdraft was first made available to Mr E in relation to his agricultural machinery 
business, which would have been considered as being a micro-enterprise based upon 
criteria such as the number of people the business employed and the most recent annual 
accounts at that time. Importantly, micro-enterprises arent afforded some of the protections 
that an individual or consumer would be when being issued with credit, and this includes that 
affordability checks wouldnt be a requirement for lending.
Instead, the credit provider, in this instance RBS, is free to make a judgement as to whether 
it will provide credit to the borrower. And given that Mr E was an experienced businessman 
who had used a business overdraft for many years and the wider circumstances of the 
ongoing development plans, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for RBS to have 
allowed the overdraft borrowing undertaken by Mr E to have reached the level that it did.Threats and bullying by RBS
Mr E has stated that RBS became highly aggressive in its approach towards him following 
the transfer of the relationship to the GRG, and that RBS would call him unreasonably 
frequently and pressure him into agreeing to actions that werent in his best interest. 
It goes without saying that I wasnt present at any face to face meetings or on any telephone 
conversations that Mr E and RBS might have had, and so Im unable to comment on the 
tone of any such conversations. What I can do is assess the written correspondence 
between RBS and Mr E and look for instances of threats and bullying in that 
correspondence. 
Having done so, I dont feel that I can conclude that RBS can be said to have bullied or 
issued threats to Mr E in their correspondence, and while I acknowledge that some of the 
content of the correspondence might have been upsetting for Mr E, I havent seen anything 
other than RBS stating in clear terms what their intentions are so that Mr E is kept informed 
as to how RBS might act moving forwards. And it must be noted that such clarify of 
communication is precisely what this service would expect here.
An example of this is a letter from RBS to Mr E dated 17 February 2015 which Mr E 
specifically asked this service to consider as an example of what he feels were RBSs 
bullying tactics. But having read the letter, I find that it provides a clear and succinct 
confirmation of RBSs position on the state of the unpaid loan facility and of their lack of 
appetite to provide further funding. Furthermore, the letter sets out clearly to Mr E what RBS 
expect of Mr E moving forwards, as well as potential future actions  such as referring Mr Es 
account to RBSs recoveries department  should the actions described in the letter not be 
undertaken. 
As mentioned previously, while I can appreciate why Mr E might be upset at the content of 
this letter, the clarity of the letter is what would be expected here, and it doesnt follow from 
Mr E being upset that the letter provides an example of bullying. Indeed, given the general 
state of the loan facility at that time  which remained unpaid such that RBS had increasing 
concerns that their financial outlay might not be fully repaid  it doesnt seem unreasonable 
to me that RBS would confirm that their position was as was described in this letter.
Mr E has also stated that RBS threatened to sell off property assets cheaper than their 
market value, and that RBS insisted on the sale of plots for £195,000 and £225,000 that 
could have been sold at £250,000. Mr E also contends that the barn was eventually sold for 
£670,000 but had been marketed at £895,000.
However, its evident that the marketing of the properties for sale at the original asking prices 
failed to attract any buyers. And even when the asking prices for the properties were 
reduced, in August 2014, no firm offers were received. 
It must be noted that at this time that Mr E was under pressure from other creditors, as well 
as from RBS, and it was acknowledged that there was a need to sell property assets to 
service Mr Es financial position at that time. 
But the properties werent selling at the prices that Mr E was initially marketing them at, 
which means that its difficult for me to conclude that the sale of the properties at prices 
lower than the initial asking price was anything other then the result of Mr E needing to sell 
properties at a time when market conditions werent favourable for him to do so. 
And, while I can appreciate that Mr E might be displeased that he had to sell properties at 
such a time, given that RBS held a charge over those properties as security for their lending, and given that RBS were entitled to seek the repayment of their overdue lending, I cant say 
that RBS acted unfairly in seeking a sale of the properties at that time so that their overdue 
lending could be repaid. 
I also feel that it should be noted that the potential alternatives to the property sales at that 
time for Mr E  including the possibility of insolvency and receivership  would, in all 
likelihood, have left Mr E in a worse financial position than that which followed the sales of 
the properties at the prices that they eventually realised. 
Distribution of sale proceeds from Plot 2
Mr E has said that RBS held onto the proceeds of the sale of Plot 2 and that this meant that 
he wasnt able to pay invoices that were due. Mr E also contends that the proceeds of the 
sale were placed into an RE (regarding) account rather than being used to pay down the 
outstanding loan and that RBS didnt produce any statements showing what had happened 
on that account.
When RBS looked at this aspect of Mr Es complaint, they agreed to a refund of £2,664.84 
plus interest which RBS has explained represents interest charged unfairly as a result of the 
sale proceeds not being applied entirely correctly. However, Mr E doesnt feel that RBSs 
offer goes far enough and believes that more compensation is due.
Its clear from RBSs notes that they had concerns that the proceeds of the sale of Plot 2 
might not be used by Mr E to reduce the overall balance outstanding on Mr Es borrowing as 
RBS would have liked. 
Prior to Plot 2 being sold, RBSs notes confirm that they were intending to use £100,000 of 
the anticipated £220,000 sale proceeds to reduce the loan balance, with the remaining 
£120,000 being made available to Mr E to allow him to complete the refurbishment work on 
the house and provide some ongoing living expenses for Mr E. RBS note that this seems like 
a fair compromise to them, which incorporates a reduction of the outstanding loan balance 
while providing Mr E with access to money needed to complete other aspects of the planned 
development as well as for his own living expenses. 
In March 2014, Plot 2 sold for £225,000, and the sale proceeds were placed by RBS into a 
regarding account such that Mr E didnt have direct access to those funds and so that RBS 
could control how the sale proceeds were then distributed. Of those proceeds, £59,000 was 
applied by RBS to reduce Mr Es overdraft balance, and RBS wrote to Mr E to advise him 
that various sums totalling £111,500 would be released to him so that he could pay 
outstanding invoices, pay his other creditors, cover interest payments that would become 
due on the borrowing, and make purchases to better market the sale of the properties. RBS 
also advised Mr E that they would make £3,000 per month available to him for personal 
expenses.
This seems reasonable to me, and while it must be noted that RBS held a charge over Plot 2 
which meant that it was entitled to retain the sale proceeds up to the value of that charge, 
what this service would expect here would be that RBS would have made a decision on how 
to distribute the sale proceeds only after taking into account not only its own need for the 
balance of Mr Es outstanding borrowing to be reduced, but also the financial needs of Mr E, 
both in regard to his personal financial needs and the needs of the ongoing development. 
Ultimately, I feel that RBS did that here, and while Mr E might not agree with the decisions 
that RBS made regarding the distribution of the sale proceeds, I cant conclude that RBS 
acted unfairly toward Mr E in making the decisions that it did. As such, I wont be instructing 
RBS to make any further offer of payment to Mr E beyond the offer that it has already made.Fees incurred by Mr E unfairly
Mr E has complained about fees, of various kinds, and the interest rate he paid to the bank 
on his borrowing. I will comment on each of these fees in turn.
Loan arrangement fees
In June 2014, on approval of a three-month extension for the then £404,000 loan, a fee of 
£4,000 was charged by RBS. This equates to 4% of the loan on an annualised basis, which 
Mr E felt was too high. 
When RBS looked at this aspect of Mr Es complaint it agreed that the 4% charge had been 
too high, and it offered to reimburse to Mr E £2,000 plus interest. This was on the basis that 
RBS felt that a charge of 2% would have been appropriate at that time, which would have 
entailed a fee of £2,000, rather than £4,000.
Im aware that Mr E feels that even this reduction to 2% represents a fee that was higher that 
standard industry norms at that time. But my decision here isnt based on an assessment of 
standard industry norms, but on whether I feel that the fee in question is fair and reasonable 
given the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
And, in this instance, given that RBS had what I consider to be reasonable concerns over 
whether Mr E would be able to repay the full balance of the loan, I feel that RBSs perception 
of risk at that time does validate a fee of 2% such that I wont be instructing any further 
reimbursements in regards to this fee.
Overdraft arrangement fees
Overdraft arrangement fees were applied to Mr Es account at times when a review of the 
loan facility was undertaken by RBS. The fees varied in size, and when RBS considered this 
aspect of Mr Es complaint it reimbursed to Mr E the fees charged on the two occasions 
where the fee exceeded 3% of the facility amount annualised.
Again, Im aware that Mr E feels that 3% represents an unreasonably high fee and that 
further reimbursements should be provided. However, for the reasons previously stated  
based largely on what I consider to be a reasonably perception of risk by RBS  Im satisfied 
that by implementing this 3% reimbursement threshold, RBS have already resolved this 
matter in a fair and reasonable way such that I wont be instructing any further action.
Interest rate margins
There are three instances where Mr E feels that RBS unfairly increased the interest rate 
margin on the borrowing facilities. 
This first of these, in 2011, occurred when the overdraft was converted into a loan and a 
new, smaller overdraft was agreed. On this instance, the overdraft had been charged at 
B+3.15%, but the new loan was charged at B+3.00%, and so Im satisfied that this was a 
more affordable way for Mr E to structure the borrowing.
The second instance was in 2014 when the loan was restructured, and the interest rate 
margin was increase from B+3.00% to B+5.00%. Mr E contends that there was no reason for 
RBS to have increased the interest rate margin at that time. However, while Im aware that 
Mr E will disagree, I do feel that the circumstances that were present at that time  including 
that property assets werent being sold and that repayments to the loan werent being made because of this  do mean that it was reasonable for RBS to have a heightened perception 
of risk such that the increase to the interest rate margin at that time wasnt unreasonable.
Finally, the third instance was in 2015, where Mr E believed that the interest rate margin had 
been increased again by RBS, this time to B+7.00%. However, its evident that while this 
possibility was discussed, such an increase was never actually implemented. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that RBS havent acted unfairly or unreasonably 
regarding the interest rate margin increases, and it follows that I wont be upholding this 
aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Management and monitoring service charges
Mr E was charged a quarterly account monitoring service charge. RBS have advised that 
these charges commenced in 1999 and that it wasnt the case that they began to be charged 
upon the transfer to the GRG in 2010. As such, it may well be the case that these charges 
fall outside the remit of this service to consider, given the length of time that has elapsed 
since the commencement of the charges and since Mr E ought reasonably to have known 
that he could have complained about them.
Notwithstanding the length of time thats elapsed, its also evident, given that these charges 
commenced in 1999, that these are charges that Mr E would have agreed to, and RBS have 
confirmed that they were a standard charge which it applied to business current accounts at 
that time. And because of this, I find it difficult to conclude that Mr E incurred these charges 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
RBS changed its charging tariff in 2013, at which time the amount that Mr E was charged for 
account management and monitoring was drastically reduced. But it doesnt follow that RBS 
electing to implementing a much lower charging structure means that the earlier higher 
charging structure was applied unfairly.
Valuation Fee
In February 2014, a valuer was instructed by RBS, at Mr Es expense, to value the 
properties over which RBS held a charge and which were at that time being marketed for 
sale. The properties hadnt been valued since 2008 and given the length of time that the 
properties had been up for sale without success, it seems reasonable to me that RBS would 
want to confirm that the asking prices of the properties were reasonable and inline with 
current market values. Furthermore, its common practice in such circumstances that the 
cost of the valuations be met by the borrower and not the by the bank.
However, the complaint is that eight months later, RBS instructed a further valuation by the 
valuer which resulted in Mr E having to pay a further valuation fee of £900. Mr E feels that 
this second valuation was unnecessary and that it led to him paying a fee that was unfair.
RBS have stated that this second valuation was instructed to take account of any 
construction work that had taken place since the first valuation. However, given that a 
valuation had only recently taken place, what this service would expect would be that RBS 
would have sought Mr Es consent before instructing the second valuation at Mr Es 
expense. 
But Mr Es consent wasnt sought, and had it been I feel that Mr E would have had a strong 
argument that a second valuation wasnt necessary so close to the prior valuation and that if 
RBS did feel that it was necessary that it shouldnt have been undertaken at Mr Es expense.As such, I will be upholding this particular aspect of Mr Es complaint and instructing RBS to 
reimburse to Mr E the £900 cost of the second valuation along with 8% simple interest.
I realise that in a general sense, this wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting, but I hope 
that he can understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
Putting things right
In addition to the reimbursements to which it has previously agreed, RBS must make a 
payment of £900 to Mr E along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date of the 
valuation fee in question to the date of the payment to Mr E.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman