DRN-2690797
The complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in 1998. Mrs S 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because Barclays recommended the policy to her 
but I dont think it was suitable. I say this because the policy would only pay disability or 
unemployment benefit if the customer was in paid employment for at least 16 hours or more 
a week. Mrs S has said throughout her complaint that she was employed part-time for less 
than 16 hours a week when she took out the policy. So she wouldnt have been able to claim 
as she expected to.
Mrs S hasnt been able to provide evidence of her working hours, which isnt surprising given 
the amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold. But Im mindful that what shes 
said has been consistent throughout her complaint. So I dont think its unreasonable for me 
to accept what shes said about the hours she worked.
I dont think Mrs S would have bought the policy if Barclays had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mrs S has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
  
Putting things right
Mrs S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Mrs S needs to get back the extra shes 
paid. 
So, Barclays should:
- Work out and pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs S paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
compensation to Mrs S in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman