DRN-3191873
The complaint
Ms J has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) unfairly reduced her no 
claims discount (NCD) under her motor insurance policy and failed to properly explain its 
NCD terms.
  
What happened
Ms J took out insurance with Soteria in December 2019 via an online comparison site. She 
was unfortunately involved in an accident in March 2020 and made a claim and the accident 
was recorded as a fault claim against her policy. 
Ms J had 16 years NCD when she took out her policy which was recognised by Soteria on 
her policy schedule. Ms J made an amendment to her policy on April 2020 and the policy 
documents then referred to her having 10 years NCD. When the policy was due to end in 
December 2020, Soteria gave Ms J proof of only three years NCD. Soteria said that Ms Js 
NCD was stepped back in accordance with its policy due to the fault event and as the NCD 
was not protected.
Ms J was unhappy that her NCD had been reduced from 16 years to three years. She said 
that this wasnt explained in the policy documents or the comparison website and that shes 
had to pay extra for her insurance as a result. In response to her complaint, Soteria said that 
the step back arrangement was in line with standard industry practice. It said that the 
industry generally allowed a maximum NCD of five years, with a step back of two years 
following a single fault incident. It said that the resulting three years NCD was therefore 
correct. It thought that the step back process was made clear in the policy.
Ms J said she wouldnt have bought the policy from Soteria had she understood how it would 
deal with step back to her NCD.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Js complaint and partially upheld it. She didnt think 
that Soteria had treated Ms J fairly and reasonably by reducing her NCD to three years. She 
thought the details online didnt make it clear that five years NCD was the maximum allowed 
by Soteria. It also didnt show how NCD years would be reduced after a claim.
Our investigator thought that Soterias step back to three years was significant and onerous, 
given Ms Js 10 year NCD entitlement and should have been drawn to Ms Js attention by 
Soteria. It was her view that Ms J was disproportionately affected and penalised for making 
one claim and it was; out of kilter with the rest of the market whereas consumers normally 
only experience a step back of two years following a claim. She didnt think Ms J was 
placed at a disadvantage, however she thought that Ms J should have been provided with 
enough information during the application process in order to make an informed decision.
In the circumstances, our investigator thought that Soteria should provide a letter to Ms J 
confirming the position regarding her NCD and pay a modest sum in compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Soteria didnt accept our investigators view and the matter has been referred to me to make 
a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering Ms Js complaint, Ive thought about whether Soteria explained its NCD 
step back process to Ms J, and whether Ms J would have acted differently had it done so. 
Ive concluded that Soteria didnt treat Ms J fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
The relevant policy terms and conditions, under the heading; No claim discount state; - 
If a claim has been made or arisen under this insurance in any one period of insurance Your 
No Claim Discount will be reduced at the next renewal in accordance with the Insurers step 
back scale applicable at the time of renewal (usually to the equivalent of 0, 1 or 2 years) 
subject to any No Claim Discount Protection condition that may apply to this insurance.
Our service acknowledges that NCD provides a system of discretionary discounts and that 
the discount an insurer might give is up to each insurer. Most insurers give a maximum 
number of years that theyll take into account, and often, a period of NCD over perhaps five 
years or ten years may be considered irrelevant by particular insurers. 
We also accept that its common practice for NCD to be reduced by two years in the event of 
a fault claim. This can sometimes cause confusion for consumers, particularly if the policy 
documents dont fully explain the insurers specific arrangements or it wasnt explained when 
the policy was being purchased. This is particularly the case when policies are purchased 
through comparison websites, which often dont provide information about NCDs upfront.
Ive considered Soteiras position carefully. It said that when Ms J spoke to its agent in 
December 2019, the agent explained that NCD entitlement would be reduced in the event of 
a claim. It said that Ms J didnt specifically query step back terms and the agent didnt clarify 
the reduction in NCD should a claim be made. It said that the reduction of NCD entitlement 
in this case from 16 to three years was in line with the policy terms.
Soteria explained that, whilst it will state NCD entitlement on policy documents, its maximum 
NCD is five years. Following a fault claim, the maximum would be stepped back by two 
years, so reducing the NCD to three years in total. One of Soterias agents initially thought 
that following the incident, the NCD should have been stepped back to seven years in total 
and not three. The agent later stated; I did think it was originally a mistake as some insurers 
dont step back this many years for 1 claim, but unfortunately, in this instance, this insurer 
does. The agent also explained that comparison sites usually gives the price of the NCD 
protection and compares that price with or without protection in the event of a claim. 
With regard to comparison websites, Soteria stated that the process is that the consumer is 
transferred to the insurers website where the policy terms are available. As to the telephone 
call when Ms J arranged cover with Soteria, it said it was clear that Ms J understood NCD 
principles and that she had consciously decided not to protect her NCD for over 10 years. 
Ms J was also asked if she was happy with the information shed provided on-line. Soteria 
didnt think it was required to go over each piece of information that Ms J had provided 
online. Finally, it was explained that if Ms J had a fault claim in the next 12 months her NCD 
would be reduced as it wasnt protected.Soteria then referred to the policy documents which it said made it clear that Ms J needed to 
check her documents and to contact Soteria if she was unhappy. It referred to the policy 
terms above and stated that as the NCD had been reduced to three years rather than by 
three years, Ms J was in a better position than the policy terms allowed for. In conclusion it 
considered that Ms J had all the necessary information as to her cover. Whichever insurer 
Ms J chose, Soteria said that a similar step back NCD arrangement would have applied. 
Ive also considered what Ms J says. Shes acknowledged that her NCD was not protected 
and would be reduced as a result of her accident, however she considered it unfair and 
unreasonable that her NCD had been scaled back from 16 to three years. She said that at 
no time were the step back scales highlighted to her when she took out her insurance policy. 
Had she been made aware of the impact, she said she would have either taken out NCD 
protection or searched for an alternative provider. 
Ms J said that she had read the terms and conditions, however she thought that Soteria 
should have made it clear as to the maximum number of years NCD would count. She said 
she thought that the broker was the insurer, had never heard of Soteria and therefore had no 
reason to visit its website to double-check any information about step back, nor was she 
asked to do so. She thought it was unreasonable for Soteria to enter into a contract and then 
to have some of the terms and conditions online only, without making this clear. She 
considered the step back arrangements to be material provisions which should be in the 
policy booklet and highlighted explicitly, not hidden within many pages of a website.
Having considered what both Soteria and Ms J have to say, I conclude that Soteria didnt 
provide a sufficient explanation about the maximum NCD years which would count. I also 
conclude that it didnt provide enough information about the impact a claim would have upon 
NCD. The step back arrangements led to a significant reduction in NCD from ten years to 
three years. This policy term wasnt drawn specifically to the attention of the consumer. The 
first time Ms J knew how her NCD was affected was when she received her renewal notice 
in November 2020 and I can understand that this will have come as a shock to her.
This services approach is that insurers should make it clear in the sales process and in the 
policy documents what the maximum NCD allowance is and what the reduction will be in the 
event of a fault claim. This is so that the consumer can make a fully informed decision. If the 
insurer doesnt do that, we consider whether the consumer would have acted differently.
Ive also listened to the sales call and although Ms J was adamant that she didnt require her 
NCD to be protected, I note that Soterias agent didnt remind Ms J of the specific 
consequences under this policy. The impact of not protecting Ms Js NCD was explained in 
general terms. Soterias policy documents sent to Ms J didnt have an NCD table to clearly 
set out what happened in the event of a claim. Im satisfied that Ms J couldnt be expected to 
seek it out without being referred to a specific page in a website.
In any event, Im satisfied that the online information didnt make it clear enough that, 
regardless of the number of years discount earned previously, ten years was the maximum 
that Soteria would count. I also dont think its clear enough that the step back in the event of 
one claim would be to reduce the NCD to two years rather than by two years. Also, contrary 
to this wording, it was reduced to three years. Im not convinced that Soteria was clear 
whether the maximum NCD it counted was ten, nine or five years. Also it wasnt clear 
whether the result of one claim would be to reduce NCD to or by two years. The agent 
dealing with Ms Js complaint was also confused by Soterias terms and conditions regarding 
its step back arrangements and its therefore not surprising that Ms J was also confused.
 
In conclusion, I think its more likely than not that Ms J would have purchased protection for 
her NCD or bought a policy elsewhere if the effects of a claim upon her policy had been fully explained. I have therefore considered to what extent Ms J was prejudiced by what 
happened. Im satisfied that she received an NCD from Soteria in line with what other 
insurers would have provided, as its standard for NCD to be reduced by two years in the 
event of a fault claim. What remains as an issue is the fact that Soteria only provided proof 
of three years NCD for Ms J to take to her new insurer, rather than the eight years which it 
would have been reasonable to expect.
Finally, I consider that Ms J has experienced distress and inconvenience for a considerable 
period of time in trying to resolve unnecessary confusion and consider that it is reasonable to 
award modest compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
 For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Js complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited to:
- send Ms J a letter (which she may show to current and future insurers) confirming 
how many years NCD she had in December 2019 and that she had one fault claim in 
March 2020; and
- pay compensation of £200 to Ms J for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman