DRN-2274593
The complaint
Mr E complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Limited didnt deal fairly with a claim 
he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E told us initially that Collingwood had declined the claim he made (following an 
accident). Collingwood said that wasnt the case, but that Mr E had complained to it about 
the way the claim was handled (and in particular, the way his dash cam footage was dealt 
with). It also said Mr E had complained about its lack of adherence to its own rules, plus 
group bias and racism. 
Collingwood didnt uphold Mr Es complaint, except in relation to one call with a deputy team 
leader, who it said could have handled the call better. It didnt accept that any of its advisors 
had shown bias or racism. It said the claim had been dealt with correctly and that its internal 
file-handling guidelines (referred to by Mr E as rules) had been met. 
The claim was disputed by the other insurer, and Collingwood said there was no 
independent evidence to prove what had happened. It said Mr Es dash cam footage didnt 
show the accident  and his witness hadnt come forward. It said the claim was likely to be 
settled with liability split between Mr E and the other driver.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint. She noted that the claims handler had 
first reviewed the dash cam footage within five working days, in line with internal guidelines. 
But it then had to be downloaded again, with sound and the right way up. It was another five 
days before she was able to review it in the correct format. The investigator said the 
timescale that Mr E was relying on (three to five days working days to review items received 
by Collingwood) wasnt a fixed rule. She didnt think there were any unnecessary delays. In 
her view, 10 days to review the evidence in the correct format wasnt unreasonable. 
The investigator noted that Collingwood had accepted that a call between Mr E and a deputy 
team leader wasnt handled well. But she thought it was for Collingwood to address the issue 
as an internal matter. Mr E didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was 
passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E made the claim on 2 December 2019 and was asked for the dash cam footage, plus a 
sketch and a description of the accident, two days later. A week after that, Collingwood 
chased him for the information. Mr E provided the footage on 21 January 2020, but not the 
sketch and the description of the accident. That was provided in May 2020.
In a conversation with the claims handler (advisor S) shortly before this point, Mr E had 
asked if he had to submit the sketch and description as well as the dash cam footage. Mr Es 
recollection was that she said the footage alone would be enough. But having listened to the 
call, I can confirm that advisor S said it would only be enough on its own if it was clear.
 
Advisor S reviewed the dash cam footage within five working days. I think it was unavoidable 
that there was then a delay whilst it was downloaded again in the correct format. But 
meanwhile, Mr E had spoken to another advisor (advisor D) who told him there was an issue 
with the footage, but that it shouldnt be a problem. I think the call recording with advisor D 
shows that he only had a very quick look at it during the call. He said that - apart from being 
upside down - the footage seemed to be working. He didnt note the lack of sound on it.
After that conversation, Mr E wasnt happy when advisor S said the problem with the footage 
was such that hed have to submit the sketch and description of the accident. She told Mr E  
that the dash cam was pointing forwards, but the accident was at the side of the car. So the 
footage didnt show what had happened. Mr E didnt accept that hed need to provide more 
evidence. And he seemed to think advisor S was being unhelpful or awkward.
 
When Mr E first spoke to the deputy team leader (P) Mr E was upset because another 
advisor (advisor E) had just said she couldnt give him an average time for a case to be 
concluded. She said all claims were different. Mr E said he wanted to make a complaint. He 
told P that advisor S was making his life difficult, when in his view the dash cam footage was 
clear. He said he knew there was something seriously wrong - and that he suspected what it 
was - but that he wouldnt be telling P. It was agreed that Mr E would make a formal 
complaint about advisor S not meeting Collingwoods internal guidelines.
  
In his second conversation with P, Mr E mentioned advisor S again and asked about 
Collingwoods disciplinary process. P said that wasnt Mr Es concern, but that Collingwood 
doesnt hit its advisors if they miss a deadline. Mr E was concerned about Ps use of that 
word and queried why hed used it. He asked P whether he thought it was discriminatory or 
racist. P said hed only used the word as an example of what might be a disciplinary step, 
perhaps in relation to training a dog. 
 
In my opinion, Ps use of the word hit and the example he used were very odd, so I can see 
why Mr E picked up on what he said. But I dont think theres any reason to assume that P 
wouldnt have used the same word or the same example had he been talking to any other 
consumer about discipline in general. In my opinion, part of the reason that Mr E was upset 
by it was that he was already convinced that Collingwood wasnt providing good service to 
him for some reason. And hed already said he had suspicions about why that was the case. 
 
Mr E didnt get the outcome he was sure he should have done, based on the evidence hed 
provided. He thought the process was delayed by Collingwoods advisors, for no good 
reason. He believed that some advisors werent giving him the correct facts and had avoided 
answering his questions. He was convinced that advisor E had pretended she couldnt hear 
him clearly (although the call recording shows his voice was muffled at the time). In these 
circumstances, I can see why Mr E genuinely felt he was being treated badly - and that it 
was or could be due to bias or racism.
Under the policy, Collingwood has the right to deal with any claim as it sees fit. If we think it 
has acted reasonably in doing so, we dont intervene. In this case, there was no independent 
evidence. I think it was reasonable for Collingwood to decide that it couldnt argue 
successfully that the other driver had deliberately opened his door into Mr Es car. So, in 
deciding that liability should be split, I dont think it treated Mr E any differently to the way 
any other consumer would have been treated in similar circumstances. 
I dont think theres evidence of bias or racism in the way Collingwoods advisors dealt with 
the claim in general, either, including in the calls between them and Mr E. It accepted that one call could have been handled better, and provided internal feedback, which I think was a 
reasonable way to deal with it.
As I dont think Mr E has shown that Collingwood acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his 
complaint. I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to 
know that his complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman