DRN-4217470
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Bastion Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his GAP motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B took out a GAP insurance policy through Bastion. But when he made a claim under the 
policy it avoided his policy (treated it as if it never existed) and refused to pay his claim as it 
believed Mr B had misrepresented. It felt Mr B had failed to disclose that his car had been 
deemed a total loss on two separate occasions which Bastion felt was deliberate. So, Mr B 
complained to Bastion about this. 
Bastion maintained its position. It felt Mr B should have disclosed two total losses in relation 
to his car and that it considered this failing to be a deliberate, or at least reckless, qualifying 
misrepresentation which meant it could avoid his policy, decline his claim and retain his 
premiums. But Mr B felt his policy should be restored, and his claim met as he wasnt 
specifically asked about his previous losses, so he approached this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and upheld his complaint. She explained to 
Bastion that as Mr B wasnt specifically asked any questions during the sales call about 
previous losses and there was no mention in the policy documentation, including the 
Schedule of Insurance, sent to Mr B of the need to declare such losses (which Bastion 
accepts) that there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Initially our investigator thought the claim should be paid in full before eventually agreeing 
with Bastion that this would lead to an unfair outcome as it would be overly beneficial to Mr 
B. But she thought Mr B should be paid £250 by way of compensation for the stress of 
having his claim refused and policy avoided. And suggested Bastion should pay Mr B £6,771 
which was in line with the actual value of Mr Bs car (taking into account it was previously a 
total loss) as opposed to the full market value. 
Mr B didnt agree, maintaining that the full market value of his car should be paid. He said 
the fact that his car had been a total loss previously shouldnt be taken into account. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree the complaint should be upheld. And I also agree that to pay Mr B 
the full market value of his car (when it wasnt worth that much when he took the policy out) 
would put him in a far better position than he ought to have been. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B but Ill explain why.
As both sides now accept there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation, as Mr B wasnt asked 
any questions about whether the car was previously a total loss or not, I dont propose to go 
over this point again now. It is clear that there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation and so I 
will move on to the key remaining issue  how the claim should be settled now, and the level 
of compensation Mr B should be paid. 
I know Mr B would like the full market value of his car from the time he took out the policy to 
be used in settling his claim. However, I think that would put him in a far more beneficial 
position than he should be. I say this as the actual value of his car at the point he took the 
policy out was far less than the full market value as it had been declared a write off 
previously. So, I think it would be fairest to use the market value of his car factoring in that it 
had been a total loss. And ordinarily cars that have been declared a total loss have a market 
value of around 20% less. 
As our investigator explained Mr Bs insurer said that the cars market value at the time of 
claim was £55,000 and it went on to deduct 20% from the valuation as his car had been 
written off previously. And while this matter has been with this Service for consideration 
Bastion suggested settling the claim in line with this. It offered to pay the difference between 
the purchase price (£61,771) and the market value his insurer used at the time of claim 
(£55,000) before the previous total loss deduction as a way of settling Mr Bs claim  in 
effect pay £6,771 in order to settle the claim.
Ive considered this and I agree with our investigator that this seems a fair and reasonable 
way to settle this case. I say this as it wouldnt be fair for Mr B to get more than his vehicle 
was actually worth at the time of loss under his GAP insurance policy as I feel this would be 
betterment. Plus, I think it must have been clear to Mr B that his car was worth less as it had 
been written off when he took out the policy. But it wouldnt be fair not to pay out under the 
claim either as I agree that there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation here. 
Given this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Bastion to pay Mr B £6,771 plus 8% simple interest for the time Mr B has been 
without the money from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And I agree that Mr B 
should be paid £250 compensation in acknowledgement of the delay and inconvenience all 
this has caused him. 
Finally, I agree that Mr Bs first policy should be reinstated to allow payment under the policy. 
However, the second policy should remain cancelled, but Bastion should return any premium 
if applicable. The first policy covered the claim and the second policy would have to be 
reworked if it was to stand in any event as the agreed value would be significantly less given 
the car had been written off on two occasions. And Mr B is free to look to gain cover 
elsewhere now on the basis of the true value of the car now if he wishes and he still has the 
car.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. 
I require Bastion Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £6,771 plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And to refund the cost of his second policy 
and pay £250 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman