DRN-2762936
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc has registered a marker against his name at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K says that the marker was unfairly added. He was out of the country at the time and told 
Santander he would deal with this when he returned. The marker has resulted in other 
accounts with different financial businesses being closed.
Santander said it wouldnt be removing the marker. It said that it had received reports that 
payments into Mr Ks account of £660 on 1 November 2019 and £500 on 5 November 2019 
were fraudulently obtained. It had closed his account and registered the marker. When it 
issued the final response on 18 December 2019 it said that Mr K could appeal the decision 
by providing evidence that he was entitled to the funds.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He had reviewed the 
documentation that Mr K had now provided. Mr K hadnt been able to show he dispatched an 
item he said he sold for £660. Or that he had made a refund of £500 of the down payment 
for the other item as he said the buyer had changed their mind. Although he had provided 
some emails about that refund the figure quoted was for a different amount of £600 and it 
wasnt possible to verify who he was in communication with. While it was possible that these 
were trade disputes Mr K hadnt shown he was entitled to the funds and so Santander had a 
basis to register the marker.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he had tried to communicate with Santander when abroad. And 
he says he went to a branch with the information when he returned. Santander had seized 
this money and there was no proof of any investigation. He said he intended to pursue legal 
action against the people who claimed he had acted fraudulently and against Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I appreciate Mr K feels that Santander didnt allow him the opportunity to put his case 
forward. And I can see that when he raised a complaint on 7 December 2019 he told 
Santander he was out of the country. So, when it issued a final response on 18 December 
2019 he felt that it hadnt investigated things. And also, that he had been to a branch on his 
return. 
The point now is that he has had the opportunity to provide the evidence to show he was 
entitled to these funds. And this was something Santander had said he could do following its 
final response too. Ive looked closely at what he has provided. I agree with our investigator 
that he hasnt shown that he sent the item relating to the payment of £660. The person who 
paid for it says it hadnt been received. And I cant say that Mr K was a result entitled to this 
money. The email hes provided he says is from him to the buyer telling that person that the 
item was posted  but thats not proof.
He says he took a deposit of £500 for the other item and was importing it. He didnt receive 
the full amount that had been agreed. So, he says he refunded the money even though he 
didnt have to. Again, I cant verify who he is communicating to in emails when he says he 
has refunded the money. He refers to a different amount of £600  which might be a simple 
mistake  and also claims that this person has retracted the fraud claim. But there is no 
evidence of that. Im afraid again he hasnt shown that if this was a buyer seller dispute he 
has resolved it.
Santander had two reports of fraud against Mr K through different financial businesses and 
so account holders within a month. Mr K has now had the full opportunity to evidence these 
transactions  even if he felt Santander didnt allow him to. It was his responsibility to 
account for this money and he has been unable to do so. I dont have a basis to find 
Santander made a mistake  even taking into account the time when Mr K says he was 
abroad and couldnt deal with this effectively.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr K received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr K received fraudulent funds into his account.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr K had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
It was entitled to decide to close his account under the terms and conditions. I appreciate 
what Mr K says about the impact the marker is having on him. If Mr K doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court as he says he intends to do and 
subject to any relevant time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman