DRN-4475719
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Santander UK Plc should have paid compensation following 
complaints she made about purchases paid for using her Santander credit card.
What happened
In January 2012, Mr and Mrs M purchased holiday club membership from a business called 
Club La Costa (the Supplier). This cost £8,0991 and was paid by Mrs M paying £4,000 on 
her Santander credit card and Mr paying £4,099 on his credit card provided by a different 
business. But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to the Supplier, rather it went to 
a different business, FNTC.
In November 2019, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs M made a claim to 
Santander under ss.75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).2 In short, PR 
said the Supplier made misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, 
Santander was jointly responsible to answer. PR also said there was an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship arising out of the sale that, under s.140A CCA, Santander was also 
responsible to answer.
Santander responded to say it was investigating, but by March 2020 it hadnt responded to 
PR, so Mrs M asked our service to look into a complaint.
After that, Santander said the claim under s.75 CCA had been raised too late and, as the 
total purchase price was over £30,000, s.75 CCA couldnt apply. It didnt deal with the 
allegation that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything further. He thought that, due to the way Mrs M paid for membership, ss.75 and 
140A CCA didnt apply to the problems Mrs M said there were. He pointed to the judgment in 
the case of Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner), 
which meant that as the payment went to FNTC and not the Supplier, Santander didnt need 
to pay anything to Mrs M. 
PR asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It agreed that the judgment in 
Steiner applied in the way our investigator had said, but it argued that an ombudsman didnt 
have to follow the law if it doing so didnt reach a fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 The membership application form says the price was £8,099, but the pricing summary prepared on 
the same day says the cost was actually £43,599, but an allowance of £35,500 was given for the 
trade in of other memberships held with the Supplier. If the actual cost was above £30,000, this would 
mean Mrs M wouldnt be able to make some of the claims that she has, but for the reasons set out in 
this decision, Ive not needed to make a finding on the actual purchase cost.
2 As the credit card used was in Mrs Ms name, only she was able to make those claims and bring this
complaint.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mrs Ms behalf under ss.75 and 140A CCA. I think it is helpful to set 
out the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the lender (here 
Santander) to be liable to the borrower (here Mrs M) for the misrepresentations of the 
supplier (here the Supplier). 
As our investigator noted, the judgment in Steiner considered the application of these 
provisions to determine whether there was a D-C-S agreement in place in the circumstances 
of that case. Steiner considered a claim where FNTC took payment on a credit card in 
relation to the purchase of timeshare membership from the Supplier. The court considered 
the arrangements between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to the Supplier 
was made outside of the credit card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S 
agreement in place.
The circumstances of Mrs Ms case are very similar. Here, the same businesses were 
involved and payment was taken in the same way. So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I 
think a court would come to a similar conclusion and say that there was no D-C-S agreement 
in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim as the Supplier wasnt paid under an 
agreement involving Santander.
Ive also thought about the claim made under s.140A CCA and whether a court would 
conclude the relationship was unfair. However, a court could only consider how the 
agreements between Mrs M and the Supplier affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, as already explained, I dont 
think such an arrangement was in place.
It follows that I dont think the claims PR advanced on Mrs Ms behalf would succeed for the 
reasons set out above and PR accepts that is the case. But under the rules set out above, I 
must take into account the law, but come to my own determination of what is fair and 
reasonable in any given complaint. PR has argued that it would still be fair to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint, even when Santander might not be legally liable.
Having considered everything, I dont think it would be fair to make Santander responsible 
for the Suppliers alleged failures when the law doesnt impose such a liability. I say that I 
cant see that Santander and the Supplier were connected in any way nor is there any other 
reason to say Santander should be responsible for the Suppliers alleged failings, other than 
by the operation of the CCA.
It follows that I dont think Santander needs to do anything further to answer this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman