DRN-4265026
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service hes received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) following two separate claims he made.
Where Ive referred to British Gas, this also includes any actions carried out by the agent 
handling the claim on British Gas behalf.
What happened
Mr G has a HomeCare policy with British Gas and this provides, amongst other things, cover 
for blocked drains and plumbing issues.
In January 2023 Mr G contacted British Gas due to the downstairs shower being blocked, 
which was the bathroom his relative used. An appointment was booked for the following day, 
however this was cancelled on the day and rescheduled. The appointment was rescheduled 
after this too and there were missed appointments when engineers didnt arrive. And it 
wasnt until a week after first being raised that the works were carried out to resolve the 
problem.
In March 2023 there was a further issue with the same shower and again British Gas were 
contacted, and an appointment made for the following day. This was again rescheduled, with 
missed appointments, with works ultimately being completed just over a week after first 
being raised.
Mr G complained to British Gas about the service hed received including the missed and 
rescheduled appointments and the amount of time hed spent on the phone trying to speak 
to British Gas.
British Gas initially offered £50 compensation, which ultimately was increased to £100. As 
Mr G remained unhappy, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He recognised 
the service Mr G had received had fallen short, but he thought the £100 compensation was 
reasonable, so he didnt recommend British Gas do anything further.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr G, I think the 
£100 compensation already offered by British Gas is reasonable, so I wont be directing 
them to increase this.
I dont intend on commenting on every event that occurred. I dont mean this as a 
discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal nature of this service and my role 
within it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information provided 
when reaching my final decision.
There were two separate claims for blockages in the same shower. On both occasions 
appointments were made for the following day, but were rescheduled, more than once. 
There were also missed appointments. And ultimately, this resulted in delays in repairs being 
completed.
British Gas has explained there was delays due to a shortage of engineers. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr G doesnt agree, one of the engineers also refused to attend due to an 
interaction at the property on a previous occasion. I dont know what happened at that 
previous appointment, and Mr G disputes what happened, but ultimately this caused the 
initial delay in the first appointment.
I do appreciate what Mr G has said about his relative needing to use the bathroom upstairs 
in the interim and the impact of this. And I also acknowledge Mr G says he had to spend a 
considerable amount of time trying to reach British Gas by telephone.
However, British Gas recognised the service they provided fell short and offered 
compensation. And having taken all the information provided into account, I think the £100 
compensation already offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, so 
Im not going to direct British Gas to increase this.
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay the £100 offered, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman