DRN-2559913
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society was unable to find a large amount of 
money he transferred to it.
What happened
Mr G says he transferred about £50,000 into his Nationwide account in August 2020. He 
says the money didnt credit his account and Nationwide told him it hadnt received the 
money. Mr G says that caused him a significant amount of distress and inconvenience in 
attending a branch and not knowing the location of his money. He says eventually 
Nationwide found the money after about two months, but its compensation offer of £100 is 
too low.
Nationwide has apologised and paid £100 compensation. It has also backdated the payment 
so there has not been any loss of interest.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought Mr 
G would have been caused distress and inconvenience and that a large amount of money 
had gone missing. The investigator didnt think Mr G had suffered any financial loss, but 
recommended Nationwide increase its compensation offer by £100.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says that amount isnt enough for the problems he was 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a mistake and ought to have been able to 
tell Mr G far sooner than it did where his money was. I accept Mr G made a number of visits 
to a Nationwide branch and would have been caused distress and inconvenience. This was 
a significant amount of money that couldnt be traced for about two months. 
The key issue is the level of compensation. Im satisfied Nationwide has apologised for its 
mistake and I dont think Mr G suffered any financial loss as the transfer has been 
backdated. I think the recommended compensation offer of £200 is fair and reasonable and 
fairly takes into account the length of time this took to sort out and that there wasnt a loss.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, but his acceptance of this decision 
would be in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Nationwide to increase its compensation payment to £200 in total.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr G a further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman