DRN-4116739
The complaint
Ms G complains that when her computer was damaged Great Lakes Insurance SE asked 
her to obtain an independent report, at her own expense, before theyd accept it for repair.  
What happened
Ms Gs claim has been dealt with by intermediaries acting on behalf of the underwriters of 
the policy. For ease of reading I intend to refer to all correspondence being sent to and 
replied to by Great Lakes.
Ms G has gadget insurance underwritten by Great Lakes. On 6 September 2022 she 
contacted Great Lakes online to make a claim as her computer had been damaged. Great 
Lakes responded on 12 September 2022 telling her that her policy only covered breakdown 
claims, and to ensure her claim met the policy criteria shed need to obtain an independent 
inspection report showing the cause of the problem.
Ms G replied to them on 14 September 2022 saying that her policy didnt make any mention 
of her needing to provide an independent report to support a claim. She also said shed 
already established she had a valid claim by providing the proof of purchase and 
photographs of the damage to her computer, the policy said were required.
Great Lakes maintained that for them to consider the claim Ms G needed to provide a report, 
so she raised a complaint. They responded to her complaint saying that to progress her 
claim she needed to provide an independent report confirming that the problem with her 
computer met the policy definition of breakdown. They also said that they it was for her to 
prove she had a valid claim, and they didnt have to provide confirmation of where it stated 
she was required to provide and pay for the report they wanted.
Ms G wasnt happy with Great Lakes response and complained to our service. Our 
investigator considered the case and upheld Ms Gs complaint. She said Ms Gs policy didnt 
require her to provide an independent report before her claim was accepted. It simply says, 
we will repair or replace your gadget if it suffers breakdown, provided the gadget is returned 
to us.
Our investigator said that Great Lakes had told us that they wanted Ms G to obtain a report 
so she didnt have to pay the high policy excess if the claim wasnt valid. And that theyd 
refund the cost of the report if there was a valid claim. But they hadnt explained this to her, 
in fact theyd said, we will not be responsible for any costs involved in obtaining this report.
Our investigator said that poor communication had led to unreasonable delays with the 
claim, so Great Lakes should pay Ms G £100 compensation for this and proceed with her 
claim.
Ms G accepted our investigators opinion, but Great Lakes didnt respond. Since our 
investigator issued their opinion Ms G has advised us that Great Lakes have confirmed that 
they accept her claim.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Gs policy states that in the event of a claim she needs to provide proof of purchase of 
her gadget. Great Lakes need the purchase receipt and proof that the computer was in use 
from the date the policy started until the event leading to the claim. I accept that she 
provided these documents when she registered her claim.
Theres no mention in the policy of the need to provide an independent report. And Great 
Lakes dont refer, in any of the correspondence they sent Ms G, to asking for a report to 
ensure she didnt have to pay the policy excess in the event of not having a valid claim. Nor 
did they tell her that theyd refund the cost of the report if her claim was accepted.
So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to ask Ms G to provide and pay for 
such a report. Shed provided the proof of purchase and usage the policy said was required. 
And by requiring her to obtain a report they unnecessarily delayed her claim.  
Putting things right
To put things right I require Great Lakes to accept Ms Gs claim for the repair of her 
computer. And to pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delay in accepting her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint about 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
And to put things right I require them to take the steps detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman