DRN-2641330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE (Aioi)
repudiated a claim made on their motor insurance policy and then cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy about how the claim was handled and the time taken.
Any reference to Aioi includes its agents. Mr P is assisted in this matter by Mrs P.
For ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr P throughout this decision as he has primarily been dealing
with the complaint. 
What happened
On 28 June 2020 Mr P says his car was involved in an accident. He reported the accident to
Aioi on 30 June.
On 1 July Aioi let Mr P know that theyd made arrangements for a repair centre to contact
him regarding any repairs needed. A courtesy car was arranged and the repairs were put on
hold whilst the claim validation process was ongoing.
Aioi said they inspected Mr Ps car but were unable to inspect the third-party car as itd been
taken to a salvage yard.
On 20 July Mr P contacted Aioi for an update as his courtesy car was due to be collected the
following day. Aioi say they told Mr P that it was likely his vehicle would be declared a total
loss and under his policy there was no entitlement to a courtesy car in these circumstances.
They also told Mr P that theyd be arranging to take a statement from him.
Mr P expressed dissatisfaction at this point about the time it was taking and what he felt was
a lack of communication. Aioi registered this as a complaint.
An interview took place on 23 July via video, rather than in person. On 6 August Aioi let Mr P
know that they didnt accept his account of how the collision happened and referred to a
number of inconsistencies. They declined the claim and cancelled his policy. Mr P
responded with an explanation for the alleged inconsistencies. Aiois decision remain
unchanged.
On 26 October Aioi let Mr P know that theyd not be upholding his complaint. They
apologised for the time taken, but explained the reasons why things took longer than Mr P
wouldve liked. Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service for an
independent review.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence but didnt recommend that the complaint be
upheld. He found that Aioi hadnt acted unfairly when declining the claim and cancelling the
policy. Additionally, he also found that the time delays were understandable as Aioi had to
fully investigate the claim.
Following the assessment - which Mr P didnt accept, he responded with some further
comments including that he didnt receive a copy of his statement to sign before it was
submitted and that he wasnt contacted by Aioi following the collision, despite his car being
fitted with a telematics box. Our investigator considered these points but still didnt
recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, so their complaint was passed to me for a
decision. I issued my intended findings, a copy of which Ive included below.
Both parties have now responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Copy of provisional decision
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision, the key considerations I need to make are:
Has Aioi fairly repudiated the claim  in line with the policy terms, before then
cancelling the policy? And;
Has Aioi treated Mr and Mrs P fairly overall?
Having done so, I have to tell both parties that I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Ill
explain why below.
The decision to repudiate the claim
Im sorry to hear about the impact that this incident and subsequent claim has had on Mr and
Mrs P. As our investigator has pointed out already, its not the role of our service to decide
how authentic a claim may be or to decide liability. Thats something that a court of law is
better suited to decide - rather than our service. I also note that Mr P has referenced
potential legal action within his complaint. Our role here is to decide if the insurer has
investigated the claim and reached their decision fairly and reasonably - based on all of the
evidence.
Aioi told Mr P in their repudiation letter: From the information you have supplied throughout
the claims process we believe the account into the accident circumstances to be false. They
go on to explain the specific reasons as:
When you reported the incident you advised that the third party vehicle was parked
in a parking bay when you collided with it, the images you have supplied do not
support this
The box installed in your vehicle shows that your car has visited the address of the
third party driver prior to the collision. At interview you were asked to provide an
explanation in respect of this however could not do so and you maintained that youdid not know the other driver prior to this incident
The damage to your vehicle is not consistent with the reported incident
circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr P was made aware of the concerns Aioi had about the circumstances of
the incident and subsequent claim. I consider this fair as he needed to know why and have
the opportunity to answer their concerns. I also consider it fair that Mr P was given an
opportunity to dispute what Aioi had alleged, and in an email dated 16 August 2020 he
responded to each of the allegations listed above with his explanations.
For example, Mr P explained that the reason his car visited the address of the third-party
driver of the other car involved in this incident, was because his wife had regularly visited
somebody on the same road.
The third-party vehicle couldnt be inspected by Aioi as itd already been taken to a salvage
yard. This is unfortunate. But Ive also kept in mind that Mr P didnt report the accident until
30 June 2020. Mr P has referred to the policy terms and queried why Aioi didnt contact him
when the incident occurred as the telematics box recorded an incident. But the relevant
terms state:
12.3 Accident and claims procedure
You, or any person driving or using your car with your permission, as long as this is
allowed by your Certificate of Motor Insurance, or any passengers travelling in or
getting in or out of your car, claiming under this policy must:
give us full details of any incident that may give rise to a claim under your
policy (for example, accident or theft) as soon as possible, and at least within
24 hours of discovery of the incident occurringYou must not assume that
we are aware of any incident that has occurred, or that we will contact you,
the police or other emergency services. You must take the above action to
notify us of any incident that might give rise to a claim under this policy.
So, under the terms, Mr P had a responsibility to let Aioi know within 24 hours of the incident
- but he didnt. Had he done so, its a possibility that Aioi couldve acted sooner in being able
to inspect the third-party car. However, Im satisfied that the third-party engineers report into
it gives a fair account of the damage sustained by the third-party car and that it was
reasonable for Aioi to consider it as evidence alongside the circumstances of the incident
and damage to Mr Ps car when coming to their decision.
Mr P has expressed dissatisfaction at not seeing his statement before signing it (hed
conducted his interview via video) and it being considered as evidence. But in later
responses to Aioi he referred to wanting to remain consistent about my previous statement.
This, in my opinion, suggests he was happy with his statement. Ive also noted that our
investigator asked Aioi about this and theyve said:
Under normal circumstances the insured would be asked in person to read and sign
the statement however; due to the current pandemic they are being emailed to the
insured, post interview with the insured asked to sign and return the document. On
occasions they are not signed and sent back but to cover this, the interviews are
video and voice recorded and, has been sent a copy of the recording I believe.
Overall, Im satisfied that Aioi gave Mr P an opportunity to present his side of the story
before coming to their decision to repudiate the claim.Its also positive that Aioi continued to further engage with Mr P after theyd told him they
were repudiating his claim. This allowed him the opportunity to explain some of the
inconsistencies in the evidence. For example, this led to Aioi making arrangements to
interview an individual that Mr P said witnessed the incident and supported his claim. Aioi
said the third-party witness testimony didnt change the decision they reached and I note the
third party didnt actually witness the incident.
Mr P has described a low speed, less than 10mph impact. The data from the telematics box
installed in the car supports that this was a low impact collision. Mr P has said that the
impact pushed the third-party car into the final position that photographs of the scene show.
An important part of the evidence here is the expert engineers report  as its largely what
Aioi have based their decision to repudiate the claim on. The key relevant points from the
report are:
The incident in the car park was most likely nothing more than a minor contact and it
points to the lack of debris at the scene relevant to the damage shown.
The damage to Mr and Mrs Ps vehicle isnt consistent with damage that would be
expected given how the incident was described - particularly the low speed involved.
The fitted telematics box data supports that this was a low impact collision. The engineers
report also refers to the possibility of another impact to Mr and Mrs Ps car as the engineer
concludes theres other significant damage inconsistent with the incident as described by
Mr and Mrs P. The report considers it to be more likely caused by the car hitting a low, likely
rounded item  such as a bollard.
Ive considered this point carefully and have concluded that theres not currently enough
evidence to support the position Aioi has taken here in repudiating the claim.
I say this for a number of reasons:
The report refers to no rainfall around the time of the crash:
I can see no evidence in the images however that there has been any recent
rainfall, there are no visible rain spots on any of the vehicles present and no
puddles apparent on the ground, in fact the ground does not even appear to be
wet..
Ive already pointed out to Aioi that historic local weather records for the date in
question show there were rain showers and from the photos which both parties have
seen, there is evidence of rain on the ground. This is a basic observation and in my
opinion slightly impacts the credibility of the report. Aioi have pointed to Mr P stating
there was heavy rainfall at the time of the incident but that there was no evidence of
rain on either car. Whilst I cant say how much rainfall there was, the photos show
and weather records support there was rain at that postcode on the date of the
incident.
The engineers report also relies on the lack of debris at the scene as evidence that
the incident didnt happen as described by Mr and Mr P. But Im not persuaded by
this as there may be debris under the car or simply not visible based on the photos
provided.
A key point in the report is the possibility of another impact - possibly with a rounded
item - like a bollard, at some point. Another engineer, on behalf of the insurer, saw
Mr and Mrs Ps car and took photos of it when thered been some issues with the
telematics box around two weeks prior to the incident on 28 June 2020. Ive seen
copies of these photos and they do appear to show the exterior of the car, damagefree with a mileage of around 40 miles less than at the time of the 28 June incident.
This leads me to the question of how Mr and Mrs Ps car sustained the additional
damage that the engineer concludes may not have been caused by the 28 June
incident as described. Id have reasonably expected that, if between the telematics
engineer seeing the vehicle around 18 June 2020 and the incident being claimed for
here on 28 June a collision or other incident had occurred, then the telematics box
data would show this. But based on what Ive seen - it doesnt.
The photos taken from the earlier visit show no obvious damage to the car and the
telematics box data hasnt recorded another collision or impact between that date
and the incident on 28 June. Crucially there is a photo of the engine area with the
bonnet lifted that doesnt appear to show any damage. Therefore, the other evidence
in this case doesnt explain or support the conclusion reached by the engineer.
The damage that Aioi say isnt consistent with the circumstances of the incident is in
very close in proximity to the point of impact towards the side of the car. Its not my
role to speculate on the exact circumstances of the incident, but it seems reasonable
to conclude  because of all the other evidence including the telematics box not
supporting that there was another impact/collision, that it possibly may have been
caused by the incident as described by Mr and Mrs P. Im not persuaded by Aiois
explanation that the telematics box may not have recorded a separate impact.
The other reasons provided by Aioi for repudiating the claim are, in my opinion, not
persuasive. Ive asked Aioi about the telematics box recording Mr and Mrs Ps car at
or near the third-party drivers address prior to the 28 June incident. I find that this
isnt reliable evidence to support the position Aioi have taken here because Mrs P
has provided a reasonable explanation (that she was visiting a friend who lived on
the same road) and theres nothing else provided to support that Mr and Mrs P and
the third-party driver knew each other.
Aioi say the position of the cars following the incident doesnt support Mr and Mrs Ps
version of events. Again, its not my job here to decide how exactly this incident
happened and whilst its a possibility that the third-party car wasnt parked exactly in
the bay as described, I also cant ignore that both of these cars are relatively light
and there was some moisture on the ground around the time of the incident. I also
find it likely that when the cars were separated, the bumper may well have come off
as shown by the photos.
On balance, when Ive considered all of the evidence from both parties alongside the
circumstances of the claim (including the value and age of Mr and Mrs Ps car - alongside
what has been claimed for) I dont currently intend to find that Aioi have done enough here to
be able to repudiate this claim for the reasons theyve given and therefore theyve unfairly
declined this claim.
Aioi will know that the bar for the allegations theyve made is very high, particularly given the
longer-term impact on customers and Im satisfied that they havent been able to support the
conclusions theyve reached with credible and persuasive evidence.
I currently intend to direct Aioi to:
reinstate the policy (as they had already cancelled the policy after repudiating the
claim);
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms; andensure that any policy cancelation is corrected and not recorded on Mr and Mrs Ps
record and any relevant insurance databases where its recorded - including the
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is to ensure there are no adverse
effects for Mr and Mrs P related to the earlier cancelation moving forward.
Should Mr and Mrs P remain unhappy with Aiois decision once theyve reconsidered their
claim, theyll have the option of bringing a new complaint to our service (once Aioi have first
had an opportunity to address it).
Other issues raised by Mr and Mrs P
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps point about how Aioi handled this claim and the time taken.
But I find that given the complexity of their investigation and the issues they were
considering, they didnt cause any unnecessary or unreasonable delays for Mr and Mrs P.
The time taken to investigate the claim wasnt unreasonable given everything involved and
the backdrop of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic when all these events were taking place.
This has caused delays for many businesses as they continue to try and offer their services
during an unprecedented time. I dont award any compensation for the time taken to
investigate the claim.
Thats not to take away from the impact the time taken to fully and fairly investigate this claim
has had on Mr and Mrs P. For example, I note that Mr P told us about being unable to have
access to a car for everyday tasks and having to use public transport during this pandemic.
In line with the policy terms, Aioi provided Mr P with a courtesy car during the early stages of
their investigation into his claim. I consider that fair.
Mr and Mrs Ps response to my provisional decision
In response to my initial provisional decision, Mr and Mrs P provided a detailed response
outlining what they felt needed to happen to put things right. Whilst my overall outcome
remains the same, Ill address their points below.
1. To remove our details from the Anti-fraud database and other relevant
organizations where our details are shared. (Attached list of organizations where
details are shared.)
I intend to direct Aioi to ensure that any policy cancelation is corrected and not recorded on
Mr and Mrs Ps record or any relevant databases, including - but not limited to: the Claims
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and SIRA. This is to ensure there are no adverse effects
for Mr and Mrs P moving forward as a result of how Aioi may have previously recorded this
claim.
2. Compensate us for the hardship, inconveniences, and stressful life we have faced
in the last year due to all these.
3. Compensate us for the fraud allegations that Aioi made against us.
4. Compensate us for treating us unfairly despite we were insured with them for the
last 8 years as a loyal customer and paid premium regularly.
Although I empathise with Mr and Mrs P, I wont be directing Aioi to compensate them. As
outlined already, I feel that Aiois investigation was proportionate to the concerns they had
with this claim. Although Ive found in Mr and Mrs Ps favour overall, Im not stating that Aioi
were wrong to carry out a detailed investigation of this claim or that theyve caused
unnecessary delays.5. Compensate us for the challenges we have faced and the high premium which we
have to pay to get a new policy on our car due to policy cancellation and fraud
allegations. E.g. previously we were paying around £500/year for car policy but now
we have to pay around £1300/year.
Mr and Mrs P have clarified that their car is still awaiting repair and theyve taken out a new,
separate policy on another car with a different insurer. Aioi need to reinstate the policy they
cancelled (for the purpose of reconsidering this claim) and reconsider the claim inline with
the remaining policy terms.
Although the earlier policy cancellation may be a contributing factor to the higher premiums
Mr and Mrs P are now paying, there may also be a number of other reasons why the
premiums are higher - including the model and age of car they bought.
I intend to direct Aioi to provide a letter confirming that this policy was cancelled and the
claim repudiated incorrectly. Mr and Mrs P can then speak to their new insurer about a
reimbursement of premiums with this new, updated information.
To be clear, Im not directing Aioi to cover the cost of any increase in premiums that Mr and
Mrs P chose to pay. This letter can also be used by Mr and Mrs P to satisfy or clarify with
any future insurer about the claim they made on their Aioi policy.
6. Compensate us for the cancellation charge which we will have to pay to the
current Insurance Company when Aioi will re-instate our policy.
As Mr and Mrs Ps new policy is on a different car, they wont be double insured on the
same car, and wouldnt need to cancel the new policy. However, if Mr and Mrs P decide to
cancel their new policy with the other insurer, then Aioi should cover that cancellation cost.
My reason for this part of the direction is the action taken by Mr and Mrs P to get a new car
and new insurance policy has come about because of what Ive found to be the unfair and
unreasonable decision by Aioi to cancel their policy and repudiate the claim. To be clear, this
is limited solely to the cancellation charge under that policy and not the cost of any
outstanding premiums.
My intended direction:
reinstate the policy (as they had already cancelled the policy after repudiating the
claim);
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms;
ensure that any policy cancelation is corrected and not recorded on Mr and Mrs Ps 
record or any relevant databases, including - but not limited to: the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and SIRA. This is to ensure there are no adverse 
effects for Mr and Mrs P moving forward as a result of how Aioi may have previously 
recorded this claim;
Provide Mr and Mrs P with a letter to explain that this policy was wrongly cancelled
and unfairly repudiated to show to any existing or future insurers; and
Reimburse Mr and Mrs P for any cancellation charge if they decide to cancel the new
policy theyve taken out on another car as a result of this policy being wrongly
cancelled and repudiated.
Both parties provided additional responses after my latest provisional decision.   
Mr and Mrs P responded with the following points: 1. When Aioi reconsiders and settles my claim, Aioi should pay interest on my claim 
settlement amount. 
2. Aioi should also cover any cost of a third partys insurer. I have attached a letter 
from a third partys insurer about this.
My direction remains the same as previously. To be clear and to draw attention to the 
relevant part of the direction in relation to this point; Ive directed Aioi to reconsider the claim 
only. Im not making any instruction to settle the claim. My ultimate finding is that based on 
what Ive seen Aioi cant fairly repudiate the claim for the reasons theyve given as they 
havent been able to support the conclusions theyve reached with credible and persuasive 
evidence. 
Again, my direction is that Aioi should reinstate the policy for the purposes of reconsidering 
the claim. Mr and Mrs P will need to speak to Aioi about any third-party claim made against 
their policy  as I consider that a separate matter to the complaint brought to our service. 
Aioi responded with a number of reasons why they disagreed with my intended findings. I 
dont consider any of these to be materially new points. Ive already explained my reasons 
for reaching the outcome Ive reached so wont revisit this again. However, Id point out that 
my reason for not placing much weight on the evidence of the independent witness was 
because that individual didnt witness the accident happening.
Putting things right
I direct Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps policy (as they had already cancelled the policy after 
repudiating the claim);
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms;
ensure that any policy cancelation is corrected and ensure that any policy
cancelation is not recorded on Mr and Mrs Ps record or any relevant
databases, including - but not limited to: the Claims and Underwriting Exchange
(CUE) and SIRA. This is to ensure there are no adverse effects for Mr and Mrs P
moving forward as a result of how Aioi may have previously recorded this claim;
Provide Mr and Mrs P with a letter to explain that this policy was wrongly cancelled
and unfairly repudiated to show to any existing or future insurers; and
Reimburse Mr and Mrs P for any cancellation charge if they decide to cancel the new
policy theyve taken out on another car as a result of this policy being wrongly
cancelled and repudiated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance 
Company of Europe SE to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman