DRN-3748052
The complaint
A company Ill call B has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close its business premises due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms L, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea.
B claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses caused by the Covid-19 pandemic 
after it was forced to close during the lockdown. Covea declined the claim. It said the claim 
wasnt covered because Covid-19 wasnt on the list of specified diseases covered by the 
policy. 
B complained to Covea. Unhappy with Coveas response, B brought its complaint to us. 
Our Investigator investigated Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
B asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Bs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy which 
might be relevant to Bs claim in turn.
The core business interruption cover in the policy relates to business interruption caused by 
physical damage to property. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused 
physical damage to Bs property. While the pandemic caused substantial financial loss, I 
havent seen any evidence that Covid-19 caused damage to property which led to an 
interruption in Bs business.
An extension to the core cover under the policy covers business interruption loss caused 
by:
the compulsory closure of the premises by order of any competent public authority 
following:
i) the occurrence at the premises of murder or suicide
ii)the occurrence at the premises of any outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or 
contagious disease.
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is defined as:
those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 1988, 
namely 
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, food 
poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia, (without 
meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing 
fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, 
Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping 
cough, Yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without [Coveas] prior written consent.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge  in 
fact, the opposite is the case as Covea said no other disease should be added to the list 
without its prior consent.
I think the purpose and effect of Bs policy was to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy definition of notifiable human infectious or contagious disease in the 
policy. There are other notifiable diseases that the policy does not cover. That indicates to 
me that Covea wanted to limit the risks it was willing to cover. So, I dont think the policy can 
or should fairly be read as covering any diseases such as Covid-19 that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above. 
Ms L has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in The Financial Conduct Authority 
& Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 which she believes is relevant to this 
aspect of the complaint but, as our investigator explained, Bs policy has a definitive list of 
specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case.
My decision is based upon the wording of the policy in force at the time the loss arose. 
Although Covea might have decided on renewal to state explicitly that Covid-19 wasnt 
covered, it doesnt follow that Covid-19 was covered under the earlier wording. I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that the policy under which B is claiming provides cover for 
its claim. And before it is necessary to consider any exclusion that may or may not be in the 
policy, it must first be shown that a relevant claim falls within the cover provided.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to B. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman