DRN-4380533
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a claim she made on her Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) pet insurance policy, which was declined.
Mrs H says C&G treated her unfairly and wants them to accept her claim.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint but I shall refer to all submissions as being her own 
for ease of reference.
What happened
Mrs H took out a C&G pet insurance policy in November 2022. During the policy year her 
dog became unwell, vomiting and experiencing increased effort in breathing. After taking him 
to the vet, scans and X rays revealed it was likely that aspiration pneumonia was secondary 
to the vomiting. Overall, the vet concluded the cause of the illness was a one off episode of 
gastroenteritis, most likely picked up from another contagious animal- namely another dog 
that lived with him who was also unwell with the same symptoms. 
C&G declined the claim. They initially referred to the dogs clinical history which included 
various instances of illnesses in relation to his digestive system which suggested the illness 
was pre-existing and therefore not covered. C&G had applied a policy exclusion in relation to 
the dogs digestive system, but they also agreed not to apply that in this case because this 
incident was unrelated to the previous illnesses he had. Despite this they didnt cover the 
claim.  Unhappy, Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered her complaint and upheld it. He said C&G should reconsider the 
claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms because theyd agreed not to apply the 
policy exclusion applicable to the dogs digestive system. 
Mrs H agreed with the investigators findings, but C&G didnt. They said that as the dog was 
exhibiting breathing problems, the claim still wasnt covered because this was a pre-existing 
issue too. The investigator disagreed.  He said the medical notes supported that the claim 
wasnt for respiratory issues so it was unfair for the claim to be declined and should therefore 
be reconsidered. C&G didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They exclude:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms before 
Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period;
The issue for me to determine is whether Mrs Hs dogs illness being claimed for here 
showed signs or symptoms before the start of the policy. 
The claim made was for urt and vomiting but its clear from the evidence provided from the 
treating vet that the condition being claimed for was a one off standalone gastroenteritis, 
most likely picked up from another contagious animal. The vet goes on to say that This 
episode of vomiting has nothing to do with BOAS- aspiration pneumonia. In addition, the 
hospital discharge sheet sets out that aspiration pneumonia was likely to be secondary to 
the vomiting, following scans and X rays. As such Im persuaded that the condition being 
claimed for wasnt vomiting on a standalone basis but rather for a standalone condition that 
happened to present with these symptoms. This is supported by the fact that Mrs Hs other 
dog was also presenting with the same condition with the same symptoms and had to be 
treated for them too.
In light of this, Im not satisfied the standalone episode being claimed for showed signs or 
symptoms before the start of the policy. C&G have already accepted that the digestive 
system exclusion it placed on the policy isnt being applied here because this is a standalone 
condition. But they also say that as the dog presented with aspirational pneumonia, the claim 
wasnt one that they would cover because the dog had experienced breathing problems 
several times before the policy was in place and, as such they were pre-existing.
Ive thought about this. The claim itself wasnt for breathing problems, although they were 
symptoms of the condition itself. The hospital report sets out that the likelihood of aspiration 
pneumonia was secondary to the vomiting.  And Mrs Hs vet has provided evidence to say 
that the vomiting wasnt as a direct result of an underlying breathing condition and that any 
breed of canine is susceptible to aspiration pneumonia following inhalation of vomit.  So, 
whilst I take on board that Mrs Hs dog did have a history of breathing problems, Im not 
satisfied that these were the cause of the condition being claimed for given the hospital 
notes and Mrs Hs vets diagnosis. And theres nothing in the opinions given by C&Gs vet 
that supports this was the case.
In light of the above, I cant say that Mr Hs claim for cover should be turned down on the 
basis that the condition being claimed for is pre-existing because the signs or symptoms 
dont appear to be related to the illness the dog was diagnosed with. In light of that C&G 
should put things right in the way Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
C&G should reconsider Mrs Hs complaint in accordance with the remaining policy terms, but 
they must not apply any policy exclusions related to digestive system issues and breathing 
problems in doing so. 
If C&G pay Mrs Hs claim, they should pay interest at a rate of 8% per year simple from a 
months after the claim was made, until its paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Hs complaint Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-VennOmbudsman