DRN-3070410
The complaint
Mr A complains Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited (Bollington) mis-sold a landlords 
insurance policy to him. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr A owns a MOT garage which he leases out. His understanding was that all 
of his MOT equipment would be covered by the policy. There was a break in at the garage 
and Mr A claimed on the insurance. He then found out only MOT equipment fixed to the 
building was covered by the policy. Mr A wants Bollington to cover the items which the 
insurer wont and pay compensation for the stress hes been put under.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I do so for the following reasons:
Having listened to the calls Mr A had with Bollington Im satisfied they centred around 
the MOT equipment that was fitted to the building. In the calls, Mr A explained there 
was a separate dispute about the ownership of this equipment with a previous tenant. 
He said he had sought legal advice and was told he was legally the owner of them, 
so he wanted to ensure he had the correct coverage 
Mr A was initially told by email that these items were unlikely to be covered if there 
was a dispute about the legal owner. The email referred specifically to the fixtures 
and fittings discussed so I think it is clear only the MOT equipment fitted to the 
building was being queried
I accept when Mr A was told the equipment would be covered by the insurer, 
Bollingtons representative said theyll cover the MOT equipment  theyll cover 
everything However based on the previous conversations and emails, Im satisfied 
they were only referring to the fitted equipment
The policy document from the insurer which Bollington sent to Mr A shows that it 
doesnt provide cover for landlords contents 
While there has been a misunderstanding here, I dont think Bollington has done 
anything wrong. It was able to arrange the cover Mr A had asked for based on the 
conversations that were held 
I do realise that the sum insured of the policy was increased to the amount Mr As 
surveyor had suggested, and this included an amount for fixtures, fittings, plant and 
machinery  so an amount to cover other MOT equipment that was not fitted. 
However, this doesnt indicate to me, given the reasons Ive explained above that 
Bollington failed to arrange the policy in the way Mr A had requested 
Items not fitted would have needed to be covered under landlords contents and this 
wasnt cover Mr A had held previously or had he specifically requested. When 
speaking about MOT equipment Mr A may have been intended to refer to everything 
related to performing a MOT. However, this wasnt clear in the conversations held 
with Bollington as only fitted equipment was discussed. So, Im not persuaded it 
acted incorrectly in the way it set the policy up
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Bollington Insurance 
Brokers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman