DRN-2442014
The complaint
Mr M complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) had taken payment from him by a 
direct debit he disputes that he set up for a HomeCare insurance policy. Hes now 
complained that BG hasnt paid him the compensation BG agreed to pay him for this 
What happened
Mr M initially complained that as part of his energy tariff, a direct debit had been set up with 
BG for a HomeCare policy that he didnt want and without his consent. He brought a 
complaint to this service on 4 March 2020. There was no financial loss to Mr M and the 
complaint was resolved.
 
Our investigators view, issued on 28 August 2020, was that BG shouldve resolved the 
matter much earlier than it did, and that it would be fair for BG to pay Mr M £50 
compensation. BG accepted the investigators view on 22 September. Mr M said hed like to 
receive this payment by cheque as he didnt wasnt it added as a credit to one of his energy 
tariffs. BG said it would send a cheque following receipt of this services closure letter, which 
was issued the same day.
Mr M hadnt received a cheque by 20 October. On 27 October BG said it would raise a 
cheque (which suggests it hadnt previously done so) and this was sent to Mr M on 3 
November. BG has provided evidence of this. This cheque still hadnt been received by 23 
November.
To avoid any further problems with missing cheques, on 23 November BG was asked to 
make payment to Mr M by BACS directly into his account, details of which BG had. On 30 
November, BG replied to say that it needed to locate the missing cheque and see if it had 
been cashed. It would then send payment. 
On 16 December 2020 BG confirmed that the second cheque hadnt been cashed and that a 
request for it to be reissued had been raised and Mr M should receive this within 10 days. 
On the same day Mr M said he wanted a final decision from an ombudsman on the basis 
that BG had failed to make payment after both several months and excuses, and because 
the investigators view wasnt legally binding. Mr M has now asked that BGs compensation 
be increased to £100. The same day our investigator told BG to stop any payment being 
made until a final decision had been issued.
As Mr M and BG both agreed with our investigators view as to the reasonable outcome of 
the initial complaint about the direct debit, Im confining my decision to the payment of the 
compensation that BG agreed to pay when accepting our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider that BG has been fair to Mr M in that it hasnt acted with reasonable speed to 
make payment to him to such an extent that he had to engage the assistance of this service. 
BG shouldve made payment of £50 shortly after it accepted our investigators view on 22 
September 2020.
I consider that in these circumstances it would be fair for BG to pay Mr M a further £50 to 
compensate him for not having received the agreed payment in a timely manner and for the 
inconvenience of having to raise the matter through this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M 
compensation of £100, such sum to be paid within 10 business days by direct transfer to Mr 
Ms bank account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman