DRN-3250214
The complaint
Miss S, through a representative, says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S took out a 24-month instalment loan for £1,000 from 118 118 Money on 10 March 
2016. The monthly repayment was £79.61 and the total repayable was £1,910.64. 
Miss S says she could not afford the loan, her debt was increasing, and she borrowed as the 
loan was easy to get.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders 
checks didnt suggest the loan would be unaffordable for Miss S, and nor did the information 
Miss S has provided since.  
Miss S disagreed, saying she was always overdrawn; her income was partly child benefit 
which is not guaranteed; and as she took out this loan for debt consolidation 118 118 Money 
should have done more to check it would improve her financial position. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when 118 118 Money lent to Miss S required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 118 118 Money had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply 
think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss S. So to reach my conclusion I have
considered the following questions:
- did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
- did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of her income and living costs. It says it completed a third-party 
income verification check but hasnt provided the results of this and that it would have sense-
checked her expenditure against reasonable averages. It carried out a credit check to 
understand Miss Ss credit history and existing credit commitments. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined 118 118 
Money concluded Miss S had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan. 
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances. It was Miss Ss first loan from 
118 118 Money and the monthly repayments were less than 5% of her declared income. I 
dont think there was anything in its initial checks that should have prompted it to complete a 
fuller financial review.  So I now need to consider if 118 118 Money made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered.
Miss S declared a monthly income of £1,640 and expenditure of £840. She didnt declare 
any credit repayments, but the lender could see from the credit check it carried out that she 
was repaying some credit accounts. 
It could see Miss S had a relatively low level of active debt of £1,981 across five accounts. 
She had only opened one new account in the previous six months. The check showed she 
had an overdraft limit of £280 and was using £210 of that January 2016  but she hadnt 
been using the facility at all in the previous six months suggesting it was as a result of 
seasonal costs in December.  I can see there was some adverse data on her credit file: a 
settled default from 2013, a defaulted loan from early 2014 that was almost settled (£79 
outstanding) and a mail order account that seems to have been in an arrangement to pay 
since September 2015. But given the value and term of this loan, the level of disposable 
income the lender understood Miss S to have, and the fact Miss S was borrowing to 
consolidate debt, I dont think there was such a level of adverse data that 118 118 Money 
ought to have been concerned the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable. It may be Miss Ss full credit file would have shown different information  lenders can often 
only see part of the file, or there are timing differences, and not all lenders report to all the 
credit reference agencies. But I can only fairly expect 118 118 Money to react to the 
information returned from its credit check.
It follows I dont think it was wrong to lend to Miss S.
In response to the adjudicators assessment Miss S said she was always overdrawn. But this 
isnt what the lender could see on the credit check it completed and, as Ive concluded its 
checks were proportionate, it needed only to respond appropriately to the information it 
gathered. She also raised that her income included benefits which are not always 
guaranteed. But it is reasonable for a lender to consider these regular payments in addition 
to salary, they are no less guaranteed than employment. Miss S says 118 118 Money 
should have done more to understand which debts she was planning to consolidate but for 
the reasons I have set out above I dont agree, in the circumstances of this loan, that it 
needed to carry out a fuller financial review.
I have found no evidence 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in 
any other way.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman