DRN-3650323
Complaint
Mr O has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr O with a first loan for £1,600.00 in October 2017. This 
loan had an APR of 199.6% and a term of 12 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £2,629.56, including interest, fees and charges of £1,029.56, was due to be repaid 
in 12 monthly instalments of just under £220. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr O with a second loan for £2,000.00 in January 2020. This 
loan had an APR of 97.3% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,705.60, including interest, fees and charges of £1,705.60, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just under £155. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Os complaint and she thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loan 2. But she also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr O with loan 2. So she thought that Mr Os 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Mr O agreed with our adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans disagreed with the 
outcome on loan 1. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As the 
parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 2, this decision on only 
looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Mr O with loan 1.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr O could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 1 was provided. The results of which showed that Mr O already had a significant 
amount of existing debt with high cost and payday lenders. Furthermore, the credit search 
showed that Mr O use of such credit wasnt a one off and hed been taking out such credit 
for an extended period. The bank statements Everyday Loans obtained also show that Mr O 
was at the maximum amount of his overdraft too.
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Mr O right to the margin of his disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Os living expenses when arriving at 
its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that Mr Os credit file showed 
he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower and the copies of Mr Os statements provided 
show that Everyday Loans circled payments and added comments such as previous rent, 
which suggests that Mr O might have been in recent rent arrears. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr O has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Os financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Os version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Os existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 1, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mr O. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr O with loan 1, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr O ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr O lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr O by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr O paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr O to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Os credit file as a result of loan 1. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman