DRN-2658142
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Provident) gave 
her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss M took seven loans from Provident between July 2008 and January 2017. A summary 
of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us by Provident, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 12/07/2008 outstanding 56 £300.00
2 25/09/2015 10/02/2016 32 £500.00
3 24/12/2015 22/07/2016 52 £280.00
4 12/02/2016 30/09/2016 52 £1,000.00
5 22/07/2016 30/09/2016 52 £280.00
6 04/11/2016 outstanding 52 £1,000.00
7 13/01/2017 outstanding 78 £1,200.00
The most recent correspondence from Provident shows there is an outstanding balance on 
loans 1, 6 and 7. Its not clear if these loans have been assigned to a third-party.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ms complaint. By loan 7, the adjudicator thought 
Provident ought to have realised that Miss Ms pattern of lending was showing signs that 
these loans had become unsustainable for her. So, the adjudicator upheld Miss Ms last 
loan.
Provident agreed with our adjudicators opinion and made an offer in-line with our 
adjudicators recommendations for loan 7. 
Miss M disagreed. In response she said she doesnt think Provident has compensated her 
for putting her in debt and in a vulnerable situation. This led to her depending on Provident to 
offer her another loan in attempt for her to get out of a financial mess.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were provided. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Provident should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld loan 7. Provident has already agreed that loan 7 shouldnt have been 
approved and has offered to settle this loan. Providents offer is in-line with this services 
recommendations where a loan should not have been lent, Im not considering this loan 
further. This decision will focus on loans 1-6 and whether Provident should have approved 
them.
Loan 1
When Miss M applied for her first loan, Provident wouldve likely asked her to declare her 
monthly income and expenditure before approving the loan. Provident has been unable to 
provide the details it gathered about Miss Ms income and expenditure for this loan. But as 
the loan was taken out around 12 years ago, I dont find this unreasonable due to the times 
thats passed since the application. 
As this was Miss Ms first loan with Provident, the repayments appeared fairly small and it 
was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable that Provident 
approved Miss Ms first loan.
Loans 2-6
It appears that Miss M ran into difficulty repaying her first loan as she did not repay the 
outstanding balance in full. In December 2008, the statement of account for this loan shows 
an amount was written off. But this could mean that the debt was passed to Providents 
collections team or sold to a third party around this time. 
Firstly, Im satisfied there are two lending chains  loan 1 and loans 2-7. Miss M took out her 
second loan around seven years after the problems she had with her first loan. So, I think this amount of time was sufficient enough for Provident to have assumed that Miss M had 
overcome whatever financial difficult she may have been in at the time, that caused her to 
have some repayment problems. 
When Miss M applied loan 2, she declared she was receiving benefits and tax credits 
amounting to £347.75 a week and her weekly expenditure was around £148. This would 
have left her with a disposable income of around £200 of which to meet the repayments of 
£25 a week. So, I think the repayments appeared affordable based on the information she 
declared to the lender.
Provident also completed a credit check for each loan and it has provided the results of 
these checks. At the time of loan 2, Miss M had seven defaulted accounts. But as the 
defaults had occurred around three years prior to her application, I dont think this would 
have concerned Provident enough for it to either have prompted it to carry out further checks 
or decline her application for credit. And I havent seen any other information which suggests 
Miss M would not be able to comfortably fulfil her repayments.
When Miss M applied for loan 3, I think the information Miss M told Provident about her 
circumstances suggested the loan repayments were affordable. But there is an argument to 
say Provident may have needed to have done more checks for this loan.  
Miss M was still repaying loan 2, so she now had two loans running alongside each other. In 
addition to this, Miss M was committing herself to be indebted to Provident for at least an 
additional year. So, I think that these circumstances couldve led Provident to have verified 
the information Miss M gave to it. One way to do this would have been asking Miss M for her 
bank statements. This would have helped the lender understand if Miss M was able to afford 
as well as sustain the repayments over the term of the loan. But Provident hasnt shown us it 
did this.
Miss M went on to take out further loans with no considerable gaps in between them. 
Sometimes, she was repaying two loans at the same time. So, I think Provident ought to 
have continued to have made further enquires.
But I dont know what Provident may have seen had it carried out further checks, so in the 
absence of any information showing that these loans were unaffordable, Im unable to 
conclude that Provident was wrong to approve them.
Im sorry to hear that Miss M was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. I acknowledge that Miss M was offered higher loan amounts whilst she was 
repaying her loans, but the offering of the loan in itself may not be wrong, as long as the 
lender carries out proportionate checks.
Loan 7
Provident has already agreed to settle these loans in-line with our adjudicators 
recommendations. So, I have no reason to comment on this loan as Provident has already 
agreed that something went wrong when it approved this loan. Ive outlined below what 
Provident needs to do to put things right, which is what it has already agreed to do. 
  
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Provident should, if it wishes, buy the debt
back and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt
back, then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance on 
loan 7.
Provident should rework the loan so that Miss M only has to repay the principal
borrowed for loan 7. It should treat any repayments made by Miss M (and the third 
party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If or when Miss M has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, 
Provident should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Miss M to repay the
balance. But Id remind Provident of its obligation to treat her fairly.
Provident should remove loan 7s entry entirely from Miss Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Provident should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint in part.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for Miss M as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman