DRN-3305944
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint against The Prudentail Assurance Company Limited, made through his 
representative, is that he should not have been committed to an annuity paying a level 
income when he took his pension in 2007. He says he only wanted to take tax-free cash 
and wasnt informed of the alternative options available. He also says he wasnt properly 
warned about the effects of inflation on the annuity that he bought.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 28 January 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint were set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant parts of the decision 
here, and it forms part of this final decision.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment 
of the complaint to both parties on 3 December 2020. The investigator set out the 
background and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why she didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld in that assessment.
In brief, Mr B contacted Prudential in October 2007 and requested quotes to take his 
pension. The pension had two parts to it  protected and non-protected rights. 
Quotations were sent setting out various income options, with and without taking a 
cash sum. Mr B chose to take tax-free cash with a fixed income payable in advance, 
guaranteed for 10 years.
The investigator noted that in making his complaint Mr B had said he only wanted to take 
the tax-free cash at the time and leave the remaining pension fund invested. She said Mr 
Bs representative hadnt explained his motivation for wanting to take his benefits early - 
he was in his early fifties at the time. However she said it seemed that Mr B wanted his 
benefits promptly as evidenced by his chaser calls and letter following the delay in its 
payment.
The investigator said shed thought about what Mr B had said he wanted to do instead 
of buying the level annuity. Shed thought about whether Prudential could have provided 
him with more information than it did; about where to get advice or about the open 
market option for example. But she said she didnt think it would have made any 
difference to Mr Bs decision.
The investigator said that Mr B wasnt eligible to take the whole of his pension as a lump 
sum at the time as he didnt qualify for trivial commutation given his age. She said that in 
order to take the tax-free cash Mr B would have had to do something with the remainder 
of the pension funds. She said the total fund value was approximately £15,587, so it was 
unlikely he would have qualified for a drawdown option as it was likely most providers 
would have required a higher pension value. So she thought that as Mr B wanted to take 
the benefits early, he would most likely have had to buy an annuity with Prudential, or 
with another annuity provider in any event.
The investigator said she had looked at the Key Features document for the annuity 
which had said:
Its aims  to let you choose a guaranteed income that: stays the same throughout your 
life, or goes up each year by a fixed amount, or matches yearly changes in inflation.
Risk Factors  Inflation will reduce the spending power of your income in the 
future, especially if you choose a level income.
Questions and Answers -You can buy a pension [] from any company. This is known 
as your open market option.
Any questions? - - Please talk to your financial adviser.
She said this document explained in fuller detail how each income option worked, and 
included factors for consideration. The investigator concluded that Prudential had 
provided Mr B with enough information to know the benefits or otherwise of the options 
he chose.
She thought that if Mr B wanted to explore alternatives, he had the opportunity to do 
so. The investigator thought that Prudential had been obliged to carry out Mr Bs 
instructions to buy the level annuity which it did.
Mr Bs representative said that he didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that he 
didnt need additional income in 2007 and he didnt, as suggested, have to buy an annuity 
in order to take the tax-free cash he wanted. It said Mr B could, for example, have 
transferred to another provider, taken the tax-free cash and left the remainder invested. It 
said a level annuity starting at such an early age would almost certainly see an enormous 
reduction in its purchasing power over time, and Mr B should have been properly warned 
of this.
The investigator responded saying she had considered the points the representative had 
made but it hadnt changed her view of the complaint. She said she thought Prudential 
had provided Mr B with sufficient information regarding the risk of inflation. And although 
Mr B could have transferred the pension elsewhere in order to just take tax-free cash and 
invest the residual value, she thought it was unlikely he would have been able to do so in 
any event given the modest value of the pension fund.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence suggests Mr B approached Prudential for retirement quotations and they 
were sent to Mr B. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Prudential provided advice 
about the suitability of the options available; Im satisfied the annuities were arranged on 
a non- advised basis.
I also consider that Mr B was given sufficient warnings about the effects of inflation on 
the type of annuity that he selected. In the Key Features document; under Risk 
Factors it specifically referred to inflation and especially if you choose a level 
income. The Key Features document went onto say:
FLEXIBILITY AFTER YOU HAVE BOUGHTThere is no flexibility once you have bought a Guaranteed Pension Annuity. So, before 
you buy it is very important to consider your possible future needs, as w/ell as your 
present ones. Once your income starts you cannot:
Cash in your annuity investment
Move to another annuity provider
Change your annuity options
Mortgage or change your annuity.
So I think this ought to have alerted Mr B to think carefully before making a decision. And 
the Key Features document went onto outline the different annuity options that were 
available, including an annuity providing a level income. It said:
This option will pay you the highest income at the start  but you wont get any increases 
in the future. So your income will stay the same throughout your retirement.
Effect on your income: Although youll start off on a higher income its buying power will 
go down as the cost of living goes up. Even at low rates of inflation, such as 3% a year, 
the spending power of your income could be reduced by a quarter in just 11 years.
The Key Features document also explained there was an option to select an inflation 
proofed income, and how the starting amount would be lower. Illustrations for both a 
level annuity and increasing annuity were shown in the quotations provided to Mr B. So 
I think Mr B was reasonably alerted to the different annuity options available, and the 
potential effects of inflation on the type of annuity that he selected.
Mr Bs representative has also said that Mr B didnt need additional income in 2007; it 
said he could have taken the tax-free cash and left the reminder invested. Whilst I accept 
this was a possibility through a drawdown arrangement, as explained by the investigator, 
this wasnt possible with the Prudential plan, and Mr B would have needed to transfer to 
another provider. I agree with the investigator that this would likely have been problematic 
given the size of the pension fund. This wouldnt usually be suitable given the costs 
involved. No persuasive evidence has been provided to suggest it would have been 
suitable for Mr B in his particular circumstances, including the risks associated with 
pension drawdown. Or that he would more likely than not have opted to seek financial 
advice and go into drawdown if hed been alerted there were other retirement options 
available.
Taking all the above into account, I said my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr B, through his representative, said that he accepted my provisional decision.  
Prudential said that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision outlined above 
which was not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman