DRN-1922430
 
The complaint
Mr T says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL), trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card in 2000. 
Ill refer mainly to CSOL throughout my decision for consistency.
Background
I can see that Mr T has already been offered some money for the commission CSOL 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr T had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr T disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. He asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T.
CSOL sent us its computerised records which show the card was taken out over the internet. 
We know quite a bit about these sales because weve seen a few of them and weve spoken 
in considerable detail to CSOL about how they were normally carried out.
CSOL also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Mr T would have 
used during his online credit card application. It says he would have been presented with a 
yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. CSOL says he would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through to the next stage of the 
application and that he must have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr T was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. Ive been sent evidence of CREDIT CARD PAYMENT PROTECTOR 
being listed on these. I also think Mr T would have been sent a welcome letter explaining 
the PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. CSOL also sent us 
a library copy of what this letter would have been like in 2000.
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Mr T asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring.
CSOL didnt provide an advised sale because I think Mr T would have made his own way 
through the on-line application in his own time and without any direct help from CSOL. So
CSOL needed only to provide him with enough information so he could decide for himself 
whether or not he wanted PPI and whether it was right for him.
I can accept CSOL might not have done everything right. But the application process 
contained an electronic link to information about what the PPI covered. The cost of the 
cover was also shown beside where he was invited to make his choice. So I think hed have 
had enough information on which to base his decision.
I also dont think Mr T was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.59 for every £100 outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it would have been affordable for Mr T. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mr T wouldve also been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 
10% each month for up to 12 months. 
Looking at his overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think its more likely he selected the cover.
Which means CSOL doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But it has 
agreed to pay back to Mr T the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all the cost of the PPI to Mr T. 
But it does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman