DRN-1845191
The complaint
Mrs H complains that, in 2016, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account (PBA).
What happened
In February 2016, Mrs Hs bank account was changed to include a Home Pack. This meant 
she started paying £6.00 each month. In return she was no longer charged overdraft fees if 
she kept within her overdraft limit  before that shed been charged 75p for every day her 
account was overdrawn. The Home Pack also gave a few other benefits such as extended 
warranties, accident and breakdown cover for satellite and TV equipment, and various 
advice and assistant helplines.
Mrs H says she was misled about the PBA. She says Barclays recommended it and it wasnt 
suitable for her. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs representative says that Mrs H was concerned about her account charges being 
added to her overdraft, and so went to her branch to ask advice. The representative says:
she was told the only way to avoid charges was to pay [off the] overdraft or take 
out a [home pack] account. This would be £6.00 [per] month and could be stopped 
after the overdraft was clear. Not having money to clear the overdraft she went 
with [the] advisers advice.
If this is what the adviser told Mrs H, then this would seem to be accurate  she would be 
able to stop overdraft fees by taking the Home Pack costing £6.00 each month; and she 
would be able to cancel that when she cleared her overdraft.
I can see that, in the month before she took the Home Pack in February 2016, the bank 
charged her £7.50 in overdraft fees. This was because she had used the overdraft for 10 
days, costing 75p each day. She did then pay in a large sum a couple of weeks after the 
Home Pack started, and so wasnt using the overdraft for a while. But on 4 March 2016 
she used the overdraft again  and, over the month of March, she used the overdraft on 
10 different days, which would have cost her £7.50. She however was instead charged 
only £6.00 for the Home Pack, with no overdraft fees. 
Barclays says it didnt advise Mrs H, in the sense of assessing her circumstances and 
telling her that the Home Pack would fit her situation and needs. It says it just gave her 
the information for her to make up her own mind. However, even if it had made a 
recommendation of the Home Pack, I cant see that it would have been inappropriate. It 
would have seemed that Mrs H could save money by taking the Home Pack. Barclays 
wouldnt have known if Mrs H would use the overdraft in future  if she didnt, it probably 
wouldnt have been worth the monthly fee. But her representative has anyway said Mrs H 
knew she could cancel the Home Pack once her overdraft was paid off. 
Mrs H has said the extra benefits were of no use to her, and she objects to having paid for 
them. But many people would have seen these as fairly minor benefits, and the reason it 
was worth her taking the Home Pack was that it stopped the daily overdraft fees. So, even 
if she had been aware of the added benefits, I dont think that would have made her 
decide against taking the Home Pack. 
Mrs H has also said she understood the £6.00 would also go towards paying off her 
overdraft. She says she told the bank adviser she didnt understand what the account 
meant or what it was she was signing. This was in part because of health problems she 
has.
Its hard now to know what happened during that conversation. I would need stronger 
evidence to show that the adviser should have known Mrs H didnt understand what she 
was being told. 
But also, I can see from Barclays internal records that, over the years, Mrs H challenged 
charges shed incurred. So I think its likely shed have understood something of how her 
account operated; and also that shed have noticed the fees for the Home Pack going out 
and whether these were acting as credits to pay off her overdraft. 
Also, even if the adviser had made sure Mrs H fully understood what the Home Pack 
meant, I think its unlikely shed have made a different decision. I cant of course be sure, 
but I think its quite likely that shed still have wanted to save overall on overdraft charges 
by paying the Home Pack fee. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman