DRN-4328294
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Advantage also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident whilst driving his car. He contacted Advantage to make a 
claim. Initially Mr H was told the car could be repaired, but eventually, Advantage said it was 
a total loss, and Mr H was offered £3,440 for its value. 
Mr H complained about this offer, and the service hed received. He raised numerous 
complaint points which in summary were:
That his vehicle had been declared a total loss when hed been told it could be 
repaired.
The amount offered for his vehicle wasnt enough for him to be able to replace it.
When he was sent the settlement cheque, it was short by over £150.
There were issues with the hire vehicle, and he was without a car for about a week.
Communication issues with phone calls and letters.
Advantage issued a final response to the complaint in February 2023. It said it thought its 
settlement offer was fair, but it accepted there had been issues with the claim. Mr H was 
given a total of £75 compensation for various service issues, including being without a 
courtesy car for longer than he should have been and being on hold for a long period of time 
during a phone call.
In March 2023, Advantage issued a further final response letter. Mr H had raised a further 
complaint that he wasnt told his insurance policy would be cancelled if he hadnt changed 
the vehicle in 30 days. Advantage accepted it didnt give Mr H this information, which had 
resulted in his policy being cancelled. It gave Mr H £140 in compensation to reflect the 
distress caused by that error.
Unsatisfied with that response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recognised there were mistakes in the service provided to Mr H. But she thought the 
decision to write-off the car and the settlement offer was fair. She didnt think Advantage 
needed to pay any more for the time he was without a hire car, as under the policy he wasnt 
entitled to one. She was satisfied that the compensation offered to Mr H was enough to 
recognise the inconvenience caused by its mistakes.
The investigator did say Advantage should have allowed Mr H to add a car onto his policy 
after it was cancelled, since it hadnt made him aware of the 30-day period. But Advantage 
later confirmed it had offered a further 30 days to Mr H as a resolution. Our investigator said 
this was fair.
Mr H replied with several points. The main ones were that he was initially told the car could 
be repaired. He couldnt source a replacement vehicle for the price offered by Advantage. 
His new policy had cost around £500, he wouldnt have had to pay that had Advantage not 
cancelled the insurance and it had done so before hed received a full settlement. He said 
hed been left in a worse position even though he wasnt at fault for the accident. He also 
raised a number of points about who the complaint was set up against, given the branding 
on his insurance shows a different name. 
He also said hes never received anything from Advantage saying it would extend the cover 
for him, for a further 30 days. And that hed been told by a hospital doctor hed suffered a 
whiplash injury, but the solicitors recommended by Advantage hadnt progressed matters.
Our investigator addressed the above points but didnt change her outcome. She told Mr H 
hed need to complain separately to Advantage about any personal injury claim and that it 
wouldnt be considered as part of this complaint. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised a number of points in relation to this complaint. As an informal service, Im 
not going to answer each point hes made. My role is to focus on what I consider to be the 
key issues. Mr H has also raised various questions about the branding on the policy he took 
out, and who the insurance is underwritten by. Our investigator has explained the role of the 
different businesses and why the complaint is set up against Advantage. So Im not going to 
repeat it here. Im also not going to go into detail about the claim timeline. But I would like to 
reassure Mr H and Advantage I have read and considered everything both parties have 
provided, even if I dont refer to it. 
Ive firstly considered if Advantage acted reasonably in saying Mr Hs car was a total loss. 
Advantage accepts it first told Mr H it expected the car to be repairable. It seems to me this 
was done before it had been inspected. Nevertheless, I accept he was told that initially. After 
it was inspected, Advantage decided it would cost more than the vehicle was worth to repair 
it, so it was declared a total loss. Mr H has said this isnt fair, as it was a non-fault claim, so 
he shouldnt be penalised. But under the terms of his insurance policy, Advantage has the 
right not to repair a vehicle if it is uneconomical to do so. And that applies irrespective of who 
is at fault for the accident. 
When Mr H complained about the car being a total loss, Advantage offered to have it 
inspected again. Ive reviewed both reports. Im satisfied that based on those reports, 
Advantage made a reasonable decision to say the car was a total loss. I cant see that Mr H 
provided any evidence from his own engineer that would suggest the car was repairable for 
a reasonable amount. 
I accept it would be disappointing for Mr H when hed first been told it could be repaired. But 
it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Advantage to that, given what the engineers reports 
concluded. 
Ive next considered the valuation offered by Advantage, which was £3,440. Having done so, 
Im satisfied Advantage offered a reasonable amount, so Im not going to interfere with its 
decision. 
Advantage says it based its valuation on two trade guides. It didnt provide evidence of the 
information it used to get these figures, so like our investigator, Ive considered all of the 
trade guides this service uses to assess fair market value. There was a range between 
£3,290 and £3,790. So Advantages offer is within this range. I accept it isnt at the top end 
of the range, but we wouldnt expect it to simply offer the highest price a guide offered. That 
is because all of the guides assess the market and update their data with different 
frequency. And Advantage doesnt need to provide an average of all of the guides, but for 
this service to say its made a fair offer, it should be within the range. As it is, Im not going to 
interfere with its offer. Mr H has asked for details on how often the guides are updated. I dont consider this 
relevant to the outcome. Im satisfied the guides provided a picture of the market when his 
car was involved in an accident.
There was a long delay between the initial report being carried out on the car in December 
2022 [which said it was a total loss] and the second engineers report  which was done in 
April 2023. Im satisfied this delay wasnt caused by Advantage. The valuation provided by 
the second engineer was around £150 higher than what Advantage had already offered Mr 
H. So Mr H has queried why this wasnt paid. Having considered everything, Im not going to 
ask Advantage to increase the settlement. Im not persuaded that this report means 
Advantage made an unreasonable offer in January 2023. It could be that the value of cars 
generally had gone up over those months, and Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, that Advantages original offer was fair. 
Turning to the cancellation of the policy, Advantage accepts it didnt make it clear to Mr H 
that he only had 30 days to add another vehicle. Its not clear to me exactly when Advantage 
considers the 30 days to have started. However, when Mr H complained about the 
cancellation, Advantage said it would give him a further 30 days to add another vehicle on. 
And it said if he needed more time it may be able to consider this. I think this is reasonable 
of Advantage, and what Id expect it to do given its mistake. 
Mr H says he never received a communication from Advantage confirming that. Advantage 
has provided evidence it was sent by email in March 2023. I can see where the confusion 
may have occurred. Mr H had asked for his complaint to be responded to by letter, which it 
was. And Advantage didnt mention extending his cover when it responded to his complaint 
in March 2023. I think it would have been helpful if it had done so. 
However, Im satisfied that it did send an email to Mr H about extending the cover around the 
same time the letter was sent. It was sent to the email address they had on file for Mr H, and 
Mr H has since confirmed hes received other emails from Advantage. So whilst its 
unfortunate that Mr H may have not received this one, Im not going to ask Advantage to do 
anything more on this point. 
There were some issues with the handling of the claim, and Advantage has paid a total of 
£215 to apologise for this. I understand the investigator quoted a higher figure than this to Mr 
H, but those additional payments were not compensation for its handling of the claim. When 
Mr H was initially told the car could be repaired, he was offered a hire vehicle, but there were 
delays in sourcing one. And Advantage should have been clearer, initially, about Mr Hs 
options for putting another car on cover, and there were other issues, such as with phone 
calls. But Im satisfied that the compensation provided is fair to cover the distress and 
inconvenience caused by those errors. 
Overall, whilst Advantage did make mistakes during the claim, Im satisfied that it took 
appropriate steps in paying compensation and offering to extend the cover. So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman