DRN-2302362
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Northridge, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had completed about 12,800 miles. 
I think this car was provided with an inherent defect. I say that because the manufacturer 
has taken responsibility for the fault and the dealership have accepted that engines of this 
type are prone to failing in this way. 
Whilst I understand that Mr S has been able to cover a reasonable mileage in the car I dont 
think a reasonable person would consider it of satisfactory quality as it clearly had a fault that 
was developing and that has subsequently led to the engine needing to be replaced and    
Mr Ss car to be off the road for several weeks.
Relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault that was developing 
at the point of supply. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell Northridge to allow Mr S to reject 
the car. The repair has now been completed, and Mr S was provided with a courtesy car 
throughout, so no further remedial action needs to take place.
But its not fair for Mr S to have had to pay for work to the engine when the issue was due to 
a fault that had, in all likelihood, been developing since he took receipt of the car. 
Putting things right
Northridge should refund the cost of the work Mr S had done when he was attempting to 
resolve the engine issue his car was experiencing. Theyll need to add interest to that refund 
as Mr S has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell N.I.I.B. Group Limited to 
refund the £571.04 Mr S spent having his car repaired and to add 8% simple interest per 
year to this refund from the date of payment to the date they settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman