DRN-4370419
The complaint
Mr H complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited (MICL) unfairly declined his claim 
on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was in the garage for an MOT and he was advised the timing chain needed 
replacing. So he claimed on his policy with MICL. 
MICL reviewed the claim and declined it. It said Mr Hs car was overdue its service and 
because of this his claim wasnt covered. Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. He 
said the cars computer notified him when it needed a service and it wasnt showing as 
needing one. 
MICL reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Mr Hs car required a service every 
two years or 21,000 miles, and that his car had exceeded the mileage limit by around 4,000 
miles. Mr H didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. He provided a screen 
shot of the service indicator for his car saying it didnt need a service for around another 
6,000 miles. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that the 
owners manual for the car didnt specify a time or mileage requirement for it to be serviced, 
but instead notified Mr H depending on how the car was used. He also found Mr H had 
bought the car around a year earlier and it had been serviced just before he bought it. 
Furthermore, our investigator also didnt think MICL had shown that even if the car was 
overdue its service, that it was material to the loss. He therefore recommended MICL 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions and pay Mr H £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
MICL didnt agree. It said the online record for Mr Hs car didnt show it had been serviced 
and thought the car being overdue the service was material to the loss. 
As MICL didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy covers him for the sudden and unexpected failure of a covered part. It doesnt 
appear to be in dispute that Mr Hs car has suffered an insured event, so Ive not considered 
that further here. However MICL has declined the claim on the basis Mr Hs car is overdue 
its service by around 4,000 miles. Its referred to the following terms in doing so: 
When You have Your Vehicle serviced, You are allowed 1,000 miles or 
one month either side of the specified service interval, in the event of a 
claim if the fault is deemed to have been as a result of lack of servicing 
or maintenance this Warranty and any associated insurances will not 
apply.
MICL has declined Mr Hs claim as it said hes driven more miles since the last service than 
he should have. Its said this is because Mr H should service his car every 21,000 miles or 24 
months. To evidence this MICL has referred to the owners manual, however the manual its 
referred to says:
Traditionally, a service would be due after a vehicle has reached a 
certain mileage or elapsed time. The flexible service on your vehicle 
takes into account individual driving styles and conditions to determine 
when and what type of service is due.
The vehicle is fitted with a service interval indicator in the instrument 
panel. When a service is due, and when the ignition is switched on, the 
relevant service message and estimated distance or time to the next 
service is displayed. On completion of a service, the instrument panel 
countdown feature is reset.
So, while I can see Mr H appears to have driven more miles than MICL has said he should 
have between services, Im not persuaded hes gone over the service requirement for his 
car. I say this because the service indicator on his car is still showing that he has a few 
thousand miles before it needs a service. In any event, even if I was persuaded, he had 
exceeded the mileage, Im not persuaded MICL has shown its fair to decline his claim. 
I say this because MICL needs to show that Mr H breaching a condition of the policy is 
material to the loss. In other words that Mr H not servicing the car in line with the 
manufacturing requirements has contributed to the timing chain failing. I can see MICL has 
said its possible that exceeding the mileage on a service could result in the timing chain 
failing prematurely. And while I understand that is what could happen, Im not persuaded 
MICL has done enough to persuade me thats whats happened here, as its not shown that 
the Mr Hs car having low oil and/or exceeding the service requirements is what has caused 
the timing chain on his car to fail. Im therefore not persuaded MICL has acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Hs claim. To correct this MICL should reconsider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can also see by MICL declining Mr Hs claim, its caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. This is because hes had to arrange for the car to be repaired and also to 
repair it without knowing if its covered by his policy. To compensate him for this MICL should 
pay Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Motors Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Reconsider Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
2. Pay Mr H £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman