DRN-3691327
The complaint
F complains that Hubener Versicherungs AG (Hubener) declined its claim under its 
commercial buildings insurance policy following an escape of water.
Mr M owns F, a small hotel, and his claims consultant brought the complaint on Fs behalf. 
For ease, Ill refer to F throughout my decision, but any such reference includes the actions 
of Mr M and his claims consultant.
What happened
A water pipe burst causing damage in parts of Fs business premises. F claimed under the 
commercial policy held with Hubener. However, on reviewing the claim, Hubener found that 
the hotel hadnt been occupied by guests. 
Hubener declined Fs claim relying on the unoccupancy clause of the policy. Hubener said if 
F had told it when buying the policy, or at any time thereafter, that the hotel wouldnt be 
occupied, it wouldve reduced the cover to exclude water damage during unoccupancy.
F complained to Hubener about its decision because the premises were occupied by a 
caretaker who carried out routine inspections. Nevertheless, Hubener repeated its decision 
to decline because it said F had misrepresented the occupancy status of the premises when 
taking out the policy.
Our investigator thought Hubener declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. She said that under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act), a business customer is 
obliged to volunteer information which might be relevant.
F didnt agree. It said there was no definition of occupied, so it was unfair that Hubener 
declined the claim based on that term. F wanted Hubener to settle the claim and pay interest 
on the outstanding settlement.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Fs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The key issue for me to decide, here, is whether it was fair for Hubener to decline Fs claim 
for the reason it gave. Hubener said F had misrepresented the facts when it declared that 
the premises were fully occupied by the business, so it declined the claim under the 
unoccupancy condition.
Firstly, I should be clear that anything to do with the policy sale is out of jurisdiction. Ill only 
be looking at what was asked during the sale to decide whether Hubeners subsequent 
decision to decline was fair.
Looking at the statement of fact when F bought the policy, Hubener asked the following 
question:
Are the premises fully occupied solely by the business and not vacant for more than 
14 consecutive days at a time?
F replied, yes.
Having considered the question, two things occur to me. The first is that the question is 
ambiguous. Its not clear whether its asking if the premises were occupied fully by just Fs 
business, rather than, say, shared with other unrelated businesses using just some parts of 
the building.  
The second thing is that when considering Fs business is that of a hotel, its unreasonable 
to expect that the hotel would be fully occupied all the time. So, would a vacant room mean 
the premises is classed as not fully occupied? While I dont think thats what Hubener 
means, theres no definition so its difficult to say exactly what would be classed as fully 
occupied.
Crucially, the policy doesnt provide a definition of occupied.
The situation here is that F had a caretaker living on site five days each week, with the 
building empty over weekends. I accept that the caretaker wouldve been restricted to living 
in certain parts of the building, but his duties included inspection of the building on a regular 
basis. 
So, based on the question asked, I can understand why F wouldve said yes, the building 
was occupied. It wasn't empty, so I think thats a fair response.
Hubener referred to the policy conditions for unoccupied premises. The policy says:
You must tell Us immediately You become aware that any Premises or part
of a Premises has become unoccupied.
Again, this is unclear when considered in the context of a policy for a hotel. For example, I 
wouldnt expect F to let Hubener know every time some of its rooms werent booked. 
Looking back at the statement of fact, Hubener also asked 
Are the premises occupied over night ie. Proposer/Manager living on site or 24hr 
Security?     
F answered, no. 
This throws further confusion on the matter because F did have a caretaker living on-site. 
So, its clear Hubener sold the policy to F on the understanding that the property was not 
occupied overnight, yet it didnt apply any unoccupancy conditions.
Had Hubener applied unoccupancy conditions, it wouldve included shutting down utilities 
and draining water. Doing so would likely have prevented the caretaker from living on site. 
Therefore, it suggests unoccupied means that the premises are completely empty such that 
the utilities arent needed.
I find that the two questions asked are contradictory and, therefore, I dont consider it fair or 
reasonable for Hubener to rely on the answers as a misrepresentation by F.
Very simply, F bought the hotel expecting to trade, suffered restrictions because of 
lockdown, but had a caretaker on site for five days each week. The evidence F provided in the form of council tax bills and video footage supports this. So, I dont think, in the 
circumstances, it was reasonable for Hubener to decline the claim under the unoccupancy 
condition because Fs caretaker was living at the premises.
In summary, then, the evidence suggests that Hubener declined Fs claim by relying on a 
policy condition which it applied unfairly in the circumstances. To put matters right, Im 
minded to require Hubener to reconsider the claim.
To be clear, Im not instructing Hubener to accept the claim. Thats because it must have the 
opportunity to consider the cause of the damage and assess the claim against the remaining 
terms of the policy.
I said I was minded to require Hubener Versicherungs AG to:
reconsider Fs claim for water damage under the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Hubener repeated its opinion that the complaint was outside jurisdiction for this service. That 
said, Hubener challenged whether my view had taken into consideration that F made an 
incorrect disclosure about occupancy given the reintroduced lockdown rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Fs complaint.
Firstly, its important to point out that I wont deal with the issue of jurisdiction here. That 
matter has been dealt with separately. For clarity, the issue Im deciding is whether Hubener 
declined Fs claim fairly, for the reason it gave, and in line with the policy. 
Put simply, Hubener declined Fs claim for water damage caused by a burst pipe because it 
said the hotel wasnt occupied when the peril occurred, or indeed at policy inception. Under 
the policy, F is required to declare when the premises become unoccupied.
In my provisional decision, I said F provided sufficient information to show that the property 
was occupied, and F said it was open for trade. Ive reconsidered the evidence provided, 
which includes recordings from internal cameras, a photo of people in the hotel, and the 
caretakers council tax bill for the premises. The dated videos show people entering the hotel 
- although they dont stay long  and, on a separate day, the caretaker carrying out what 
appears to be cleaning duties. The photo shows someone sitting at the hotel bar with 
evidence of drinks, and someone else using their phone as if taking photos of the bar area.
I dont think Hubener is disputing that the caretaker lived on-site. It says the issue is whether 
the hotel was operational. Hubener said the hotel wasn't open for trade so the policy 
unoccupancy endorsement wouldve been active. But, looking at the videos and photo, it 
appears that the hotel was open and available for trade. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why I dont think the occupancy clause is the same 
as operational. Nevertheless, Ive thought about Hubeners claim that the hotel was never 
operational. I asked F for its previous insurance policy, which confirmed that the cover was for an unoccupied business premises. F said it cancelled the previous policy when the hotel 
was due to open for trade, and I note that the date matches exactly the date that the policy 
with Hubener started. This suggests to me that its more likely than not that the hotel status 
had changed from unoccupied/non-operational to occupied and available for trade. I see no 
reason for F to have cancelled a valid policy for an unoccupied hotel to start a new one with 
Hubener unless, as F said, it was to cover a now operational hotel.
While I appreciate that the policy requires F to notify Hubener if any part of the property 
becomes unoccupied, I cant reasonably say F failed to do so. Thats because the evidence 
indicates it was open to customers. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for F to declare it was 
unoccupied just because it hadnt yet attracted overnight guests. Hubener confirmed that the 
lockdown rules for that time had been lifted and, when reintroduced, allowed hotels to trade 
in a limited capacity.
Overall, then, Im persuaded by the evidence that F was open for trade and didnt need to 
declare the premises as unoccupied. Therefore, I dont find that Hubener declined the claim 
fairly for the reason it gave.
As Ive said, that doesnt mean Hubener should settle the policy. Firstly, its for F to show 
that it suffered an insured peril  loss covered under the terms of the policy - and then 
Hubener must have an opportunity to look into Fs claim and consider it in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Fs complaint 
and Hubener Versicherungs AG must:
reconsider Fs claim for water damage under the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman