DRN-3708958
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) hasnt reimbursed the money he 
says he transferred to a fraudster. 
What happened
What Mr C says
Mr C says that he and his wife wanted to have a garden room built to use as a gym. They 
found a company Ill refer to as H on an online marketplace and the owner, who Ill refer to 
as D, came to their property. He gave a quote that was similar to others Mr C had obtained 
but Mr C felt that D had greater knowledge. Following the visit there were a number of calls 
and emails before D asked Mr C to pay a deposit of £6,495. He said the price was 
discounted and he could only stand by it if Mr C made the payment by the end of January. 
Mr D made the payment on 29 January 2021.  
After hed paid the deposit Mr C said D stopped communicating with him and he had to 
chase him to get a receipt. D said the works would start in a couple of weeks. After this 
period had expired Mr C says he contacted D and was told it would be a further week. Mr C 
contacted D by phone, text and email but didnt hear back so became concerned and he and 
his wife did some research into D. At this point he found negative reviews, that D had been 
on a television programme about crime, had operated a previous scam and set up multiple 
companies to scam people.
Mr C says he continued to try to contact D and that family members called pretending to be 
potential customers, but D didnt answer or respond to any voicemail messages. Mr C has 
also confirmed that no date was agreed for the work to start, no materials were delivered, 
and no work completed. 
Mr C reported what had happened to the police and was advised to contact Co-op. He says 
the service he received was very poor, he got mixed messages and wasnt given an answer 
for a long time. In the end, Co-op told him the bank that received his funds said it had been 
provided with evidence to confirm Mr C had a civil dispute with D and wasnt the victim of a 
scam. Mr C is unhappy with Co-ops decision not to reimburse him and with the service he 
has received. 
Mr C has provided evidence to support his belief he is the victim of a scam which Ill refer to 
later. This includes:
- A county council order in respect of D from 2018. There were 25 points covered in 
the order including not making false statements to induce customers to enter into 
contracts and not falsely claiming his business was family run.  
- An advert for H (after 2018) saying it is a family run business since 1972. 
- A newspaper article discussing Ds involvement in a scam in 2012 and forum 
comments in relation to this. 
- A review written after Mr C made payment saying the writer was scammed by Ds 
previous company. 
What Co-op say
Co-op say this is a civil dispute not a scam and so isnt covered by the Lending Standard 
Boards CRM Code (the CRM Code). But if it was a scam Co-op say Mr C isnt entitled to a 
refund because it provided an effective warning and Mr C didnt meet the standard expected 
of him. 
Co-op say the bank that received Mr Cs funds say this is a civil dispute between the parties. 
It has asked the receiving bank for the evidence it has relied on to reach this conclusion but 
hasnt been provided with anything. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Cs complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. He 
noted that Co-op hasnt provided any evidence that this is a civil dispute and said the 
available evidence led him to believe Mr C was the victim of a scam. This was because:
- After Mr C paid a deposit no work was done, and no materials were delivered.
- The trader stopped communicating with Mr C after he had paid the deposit.
-  Mr C has provided newspaper reports that demonstrate H was involved in past 
scams.
- Mr C has provided reviews from others who have been scammed by D.   
Like Co-op, the investigator asked the bank that received Mr Cs funds for the supporting 
evidence it relied on to say this is a civil dispute - but didnt receive a response. 
The investigator went on to note that Co-op hasnt demonstrated that an exception to 
reimbursement applied so should provide Mr C with a full refund.
Co-op didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, it said:
- The bank that received Mr Cs funds confirmed that it had no fraud concerns but 
hasnt provided Co-op with the evidence it relied on in reaching this conclusion. Co-
op asked this service to obtain this information to fairly consider the complaint. 
- The investigators conclusions rely on forums and reviews from customers who may 
not have legitimate reasons to complain and some reviews are historic. 
- Mr C did receive a service from H as he received plans that will have taken time to 
draw up. 
Mr C added that H has been removed from search engines, the link to Hs website no longer 
works and H is no longer on social media.
Once the complaint was passed to me to consider I was able to get a response from the 
bank that received Mr Cs funds to explain why it determined this is a civil dispute between 
the parties and not a scam. The information provided was largely confidential, so I was 
unable to share it. As I had new information, I issued a provisional decision on 5 September 
2022. I have reproduced what I said the What Ive provisionally decided  and why section 
but have omitted a paragraph:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Its really important in this case to first decide if this is a civil dispute or a scam. I say this 
because the CRM Code doesnt apply to civil disputes. The CRM Code says it doesnt apply 
to, 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in someway, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
To decide that Mr C is the victim of a scam I need to be persuaded, on the balance of 
probabilities, that D deceived Mr C into making payment for financial gain  and that it was 
always Ds intention to do so. 
The fact that the receiving bank determined this is a civil dispute doesnt mean that I must 
reach the same conclusion. I can understand though why Co-op felt it was unfair to reach a 
decision without taking this evidence into account and appreciate that Co-op tried to get this 
information.
[paragraph removed]
The receiving bank also discussed Ds interactions with Mr C with him. I have been provided 
with details and with the evidence D provided to his bank, all of which Mr C has already 
provided to this service. The account D gave his bank is very similar to that provided by Mr C 
in terms of how D was contacted, the request for a quote and the fact a deposit was paid but 
differs when it comes to contact with Mr C and the start date. 
I will set out a chronology based on information provided from Mr C and the receiving bank. 
Mr C has provided screenshots of his call history with D for January and February, which is 
where this information has come from. 
-26/01/21  revised quotation provided to Mr C including photos of what the garden 
room would look like.
-29/01/21  email from Mr C to D acknowledging above and saying hell make 
payment.
-30/01/21  outgoing call from Mr C to D (two seconds)
-01/02/21  email from D to Mr C  please find attached payment confirmation
-02/02/21  email D to Mr C referring to email the previous day
-02/02/21  call from Mr C to D (30 seconds)
-08/02/21  call from Mr C to D (5 seconds)
-08/02/21 - email from Mr C to D saying he had called and not got an answer. Mr C 
asked for an update. 
-09/02/21  call from Mr C to D (2 minutes 11 seconds). Mr C says in this call D told 
him work would start in a further week.
-15/02/21- call from Mr C to D (34 seconds)
-15/02/21  Mr C sent an email to D suggesting additional work. He said hed forgot to 
ask about a shed and said he may as well kill two birds with one stone. Mr C says he 
sent this to try to get a response from D as he was ignoring all communication from 
Mr C.
-17/02/21  call from Mr C to D (5 seconds) and text message from Mr C to D saying 
he has tried to call but hasnt been able to get through. 
-19/02/21  call from Mr C to D (7 seconds)
-Text message from Mr C to D saying hes called multiple times and sent an email but 
not received a response. Mr C asked for a text or call back. 
-23/02/21  missed call from D to Mr C (this was after Mr C had reported the matter to 
Co-op and says he was told not to answer or tip D off).The chronology of events supports the fact that after hed paid the deposit Mr C regularly 
tried to contact D but didnt receive a response. His call history for the period before the 
deposit was paid shows regular contact though.
D told his bank that a start date of 8 March 2021 was agreed but there is no reference to this 
date in any of the communications between the parties. Both have referred to the fact that 
Mr C wanted the work to be done quickly though (and Mr C says this is partly why he chose 
D/H). D also referred to calls to Mr C but there is no record of any except the one on 23 
February 2021. This call was made after D was aware there were problems with his account. 
D told his bank that he had lost £11,000 from his deal with Mr C. His bank didnt ask him to 
provide any evidence that hed, for example, ordered materials though. If D had lost such a 
significant amount, I question why D hasnt pursued Mr C for the debt or taken court action 
against Mr C to recover the funds. 
H wasnt registered at Companies House and I note that Hs website no longer exists. I 
consider that if he was operating a legitimate business it would be properly registered. 
This service has contacted Trading Standards to see if it has any evidence that might assist 
our investigation of this case but has not yet received a response. I think I have enough 
evidence though to say that Mr C was the victim of a scam at this point and so am issuing 
this provisional decision. If more information becomes available, I will update both parties 
before I issue a final decision but, as Ive said, Im satisfied I have enough evidence to 
conclude Mr C was the victim of a scam in any event. 
Im mindful that it is for Co-op to show this is a civil dispute and not a scam. The only 
evidence Co-op has provided is that the bank that received Mr Cs funds reached this 
conclusion. In response to the investigators view Co-op said Mr C did receive a service as 
plans were drawn up which will have taken time. Ive seen the emails exchanged between 
Mr C and H and havent seen any plans or reference to them.  
Im persuaded the available evidence supports a finding that after Mr C paid a deposit for the 
garden room D stopped communicating with him and never confirmed a date for the work to 
start. Overall, Im satisfied D didnt intend to complete the work Mr C paid a deposit for. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mr C has provided in support of his belief hes been the 
victim of a scam.   
I agree with Co-op that some of the information provided by Mr C doesnt directly impact this 
case. For example, evidence that D was involved in a different type of scam in 2012 doesnt 
affect this complaint. And reviews from unhappy customers arent always helpful. But the 
general picture presented is that D hasnt traded honestly in the past. A court order issued in 
2018 shows D was ordered not to do things like make false statements to customers to 
induce them to enter into a contract and not to claim he was running a family run business. 
But Ive seen online and social media references to H being a family run business founded 
around fifty years ago.  
Having provisionally decided Mr C was the victim of a scam Ive gone on to consider his 
complaint under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM 
Code (the CRM Code). Co-op says that even if the CRM Code applies Mr C isnt entitled to a 
refund. 
Co-op is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
Co-op says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It says that Mr C ignored 
an effective warning it gave during the payment journey and he made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was 
transacting with was legitimate.I have carefully considered Co-ops representations, but they do not persuade me that Mr C 
shouldnt receive a full refund under the CRM Code.  In particular, I am not persuaded that 
Mr C failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Co-op say Mr C ignored an Effective Warning. I have set out below the warning Mr C was 
given,
Are the bank details youre making a payment to new, or recently changed?
Scammers pose as genuine organisations and trick you to transfer money. Call the payee to 
double-check it is them. Always use the number you find on their official website. 
If you have been contacted unexpectedly and asked to transfer money, this is likely to be a 
scam and you shouldnt continue.
Im not persuaded this warning is effective. The warning is geared towards scams involving 
altered payment details or scammers posing as other organisations and unexpected 
payment requests, none of which are relevant here. And the actions suggested to avoid 
falling victim to a scam wouldnt have made a difference in this case. Even if Mr C had called 
D and checked the payment details, he would still have lost his money. The warning also 
doesnt set out the consequences of continuing with the payment which is another 
requirement for a warning to be effective under the CRM Code. 
Given that Im not satisfied the warning Co-op gave Mr C was effective it follows that he 
didnt ignore an effective warning and so Co-op cannot rely on this exception to 
reimbursement. 
Co-op has said Mr C only researched D and H after hed paid the deposit and so lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief. I disagree for the following reasons:
-Mr C checked Hs website and didnt find anything concerning.
-Mr C used a marketplace to find local traders.
-Mr C asked D to come to his property and provide a quote. He found D to be 
knowledgeable and professional. Mr C has provided a record of his calls to and from 
D in January which show there were a number of calls on 28 and 29 January 2021. 
These calls took place before Mr C paid the deposit for the garden room and gave 
him confidence that D was a legitimate trader. 
-Mr C was provided with a quotation that looked genuine. He noted that the quotation 
included Ds home address which reassured him. 
-The price for the work was in line with other quotes Mr C obtained but Ds knowledge 
was superior. 
-I dont consider the warning Co-op provided at the time of payment would have 
influenced his belief he was making a payment to a legitimate trader. The warning 
gave no advice at all about how to check a trader is legitimate. 
I appreciate that Mr C has now found a lot of information about D and the companies he was 
involved in before H.  In the call when he reported the fraud, Mr C explained that his wife 
was a social media detective and was really good at finding information online. I think Mr 
Cs wife has found information that wouldnt normally be found when searching for a local 
trader. And much of the negative information Mr C and his wife found were as result of 
searching Ds name rather than the company name (H). Ive thought about whether there were any other reasons why Co-op should have done more 
to prevent Mr Cs loss, but I dont think there are. Whilst I recognise the amount Mr C lost 
was significant to him, I dont think it was so unusual or suspicious that Co-op should have 
asked Mr C any questions about it before releasing the payment. I note that Mr C made a 
payment in September 2020 for £11,750. And even if Co-op had, I dont consider it would 
have had any concerns that Mr C might be the victim of a scam. Mr C contacted D himself, 
was provided with a quote that was in line with others hed received, hed met the owner of  
H and thought his knowledge was good and was paying a deposit rather than the full price 
upfront. So I dont consider Co-op should have intervened when the payment request was 
made. 
Im aware Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Co-op. I can see that Co-op 
tried to obtain information from the bank that received Mr Cs funds and understand why it 
wanted this evidence before it determined how to progress Mr Cs case. I understand how 
frustrating this must have been for Mr C and that the delay has increased the stress he has 
experienced. But in the circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair to ask Co-op to 
compensate Mr C. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Co-op can rely on any of the exceptions to reimbursement in the 
CRM Code and so it should refund Mr Cs loss in full together with interest as set out below.
Co-op responded to my provisional decision. It accepted that Mr C was the victim of a scam 
but said that it has concerns that the receiving bank is also at fault and so liability should be 
shared between Co-op and the receiving bank in accordance with the CRM Code.
Mr C also responded to my provisional decision. Overall, he was happy with the outcome but 
asked me to consider some additional points in respect of compensation. Mr C noted that 
part of his original complaint related to lack of contact and poor communication from Co-op 
and that he wasnt advised that Co-op was waiting for information. Mr C felt Co-ops 
comment that he didnt complete any research before paying the deposit was indicative of 
the level of service it provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the points raised by both parties Ive reached the same 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision (and set out above) and for the same reasons. 
Ill comment below on the responses I received.
Co-op has referred to potential liability of the receiving bank. The CRM Code makes it clear 
though that once a decision to reimburse has been made the sending firm should reimburse 
its customer without delay and that reimbursement shouldnt be delayed by any question of 
the allocation of the cost of reimbursement. So Co-op should provide Mr C with a full refund 
and may discuss allocation with the receiving bank if it chooses to do so. 
I turn now to Mr Cs points about compensation. I appreciate that Mr C wanted his complaint 
to be resolved as quickly as possible and this is why he called Co-op so regularly initially, but 
Im afraid things dont progress that quickly. I also understand Mr Cs frustration that Co-op 
didnt advise him what information it was waiting for from the receiving bank (although it did 
say it was waiting for a response from it). In this case the information Co-op was seeking 
was confidential and there were limits to what Co-op could disclose to Mr C so I dont 
consider it could have done much more. I also have no power to punish or fine Co-op so I 
cant consider Mr Cs point about ensuring Co-op improves the service it provides to other 
customers. 
Overall, I consider Mr C was the victim of a scam and should be reimbursed in full together 
with interest as set out below, but I am not awarding any compensation to Mr C. My final decision
I require The Cooperative Bank Plc to refund the £6,495 Mr C lost in the scam together with 
interest at account interest rate from the date Co-op should have made its decision under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman