DRN-3187972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited have dealt with a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
A number of items of jewellery were stolen from Mrs B whilst she was abroad in 2018. Mr 
and Mrs B made a claim to Aviva for the loss of those items.
Aviva were able to replace or make a payment for most of the items however one remained 
outstanding, an opal and diamond pendant. Aviva appointed jewellers to source a 
replacement opal however it proved difficult to match the size and brilliance of the stone. As 
an alternative, Aviva offered a cash settlement of £8,000 which Mr and Mrs B rejected as 
they didnt feel it would be sufficient to replace the pendant. They provided a replacement 
quote from a jeweller which totalled £17,995.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. He 
recognised the opal was difficult to replace and therefore accepted it may take a long time to 
do so. He was satisfied Aviva was doing what it could to source a replacement. He also 
thought it fair Aviva had offered to cash settle the claim instead of replacing the pendant.
Further developments
Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy that, to date, Aviva has been unable to source a replacement 
opal for the pendant. They said they would accept a cash settlement, but it would need to be 
of sufficient value to replace the pendant as a whole. They didnt think Avivas offer was fair.
Having initially looked at the file, I wrote to Aviva asking why it didnt consider the quote Mr 
and Mrs B provided as being a true representation of the value of replacing the pendant. I 
also said that given it is now nearly three years since the loss, albeit with the impact of the 
global pandemic being taken into account, I thought the best way to settle the claim was to 
provide an adequate cash settlement. I pointed out to Aviva, that the jewellers it had 
appointed put a potential replacement value of the pendant, at todays cost, of being nearly 
£19,000. Which was close to the original quote Mr and Mrs B provided. I asked Aviva to 
reconsider the cash value it was prepared to offer and to consider making a payment to Mr 
and Mrs B to reflect how long the claim had been outstanding.
Aviva responded saying it was prepared to increase its offer to £13,500 and make a 
payment of £200 compensation for the delay. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this offer as they 
still didnt think, based on the research theyd undertaken that theyd be able to replace the 
whole pendant for that amount. Mr and Mrs B also said there were three other items from the 
claim which hadnt been settled. I asked Aviva to look into the other items and it replied 
saying all other issues had now been resolved.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 12 November 2021. I said the complaint should be 
upheld for the following reasons:
I intend to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
I understand from all of the evidence available to me that Opals are notoriously 
difficult to value and replace, as no two stones are ever exactly the same. The value 
is also dependant on the origin of the stone with Australian opals commanding a 
higher value than Ethiopian opals. I can understand therefore why it has taken quite a 
long time to try and source a replacement and why Mr and Mrs B may be unhappy 
with the replacement value they have been offered.
There is some debate around whether the stone was of Ethiopian or Australian origin 
and this is important as it has a great influence on the value of the stone. There is no 
way for say for sure now, and therefore in situations such as this I need to make a 
decision based on the evidence available to me. Having considered everything, Im 
persuaded its more likely than not the opal was of Australian origin. As such, any 
valuation should be made on this basis
Given how long has passed since the claim was made and the great difficulty there 
has been in sourcing a suitable replacement which Mr and Mrs B are happy to accept. 
I think the most sensible way to settle this claim is for a cash settlement to be made.
Mr B provided an estimate early in the claims process of £17,995 to replace the 
pendant as a whole. The most recent commentary from a jeweller instructed by Aviva 
is that potentially a high-quality replacement pendant could retail in the region of
£19,100.
Having considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
make a cash settlement of the amount stated in the original quotation £17,995. It 
should add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount from the date of claim to the 
date of payment.
I do consider Aviva missed some opportunities to resolve this case sooner and 
therefore Mr and Mrs B have been caused inconvenience. I think Aviva should pay
£200 compensation to reflect this. In proposing this award, I have taken into account 
the wider impact the global pandemic had on everything and the availability of gems.
 
My provisional decision
For the above reasons, I intend to uphold this complaint.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B responded saying they accept my provisional decision. 
Aviva responded saying it didnt agree and thought the offer it had previously made was 
more than reasonable. It pointed out it had already given Mr and Mrs B the benefit of doubt 
with regard to the origin of the opal, it feels its already sourced adequate replacements and 
reassessed the market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
As I set out in my provisional findings, the estimate Mr and Mrs B received near the start of 
the claims process isnt too far different from the estimate Aviva was able to obtain from its 
nominated jeweller more recently. So, considering this, I dont think it was an unreasonable 
amount to start with. 
Giving Mr and Mrs B the benefit of doubt on the origin of the opal means they should be fully 
indemnified on that basis. As I have set out, based on the information available to me on file, 
Opals can be very hard to source, and no two stones will be the same.  So, while Aviva may 
believe it has sourced an adequate replacement, Mr and Mrs B do not agree. Im not an 
expert in such matters and therefore I have to rely on the information made available to me. 
And, having reviewed everything, I think the most practical resolution in this instance is for 
the claim to be cash settled so Mr and Mrs B can source their own stone and replace the 
pendent.  
Im still of the opinion Mr and Mrs B have been caused inconvenience so I will be awarding 
compensation to reflect this.    
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva should do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs B £17,995. 8% simple interest per annum should be added to this 
amount from the date of claim to the date of payment.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited it 
should put things right as I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman