DRN-3253311
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms L complained to Lloyds that she was suffering from financial hardship due to charges 
applied to her account. Lloyds says Ms Ls financial difficulties were short term and it 
assisted Ms L by refunding a large proportion of charges to her account and that all charges 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And as Ms L was dis-
satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Ms L was experiencing financial difficulty from 4 March 2020 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Ls 
overdraft from 4 March 2020. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms L was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms L had already notified Lloyds of a change in circumstances and drop in 
income and her financial difficulties. And on review of her account activity it can be seen Ms 
L wasnt receiving funds into her account regularly and wasnt able to pay back her overdraft 
within a reasonable period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests that overdrafts are for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Ms Ls overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Ms 
L wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. I accept that Lloyds did offer some assistance in the short term by refunding a 
proportion of charges and putting her in touch with the financial assistance team. But I dont 
think this went far enough as Lloyds continued charging Ms L without establishing that her 
position had improved and that she was able to once again pay back her overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Lloyds says Ms Ls financial difficulties were short term as she had recently been able to 
bring her overdraft right down. But this is over a year since she contacted it for help and 
during that time Ms L continued to live month after month heavily into her overdraft. 
Ms L ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Ms L fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ls complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ls current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 4 March 2020 are removed - any refunds already provided by 
Lloyds can be used to reduce this amount.  
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Ms L to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Ms 
L is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Lloyds to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Ms Ls credit file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 4 March 
2020. Lloyds can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Ms L over 
her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms L along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Ls credit file. Lloyds can also 
reduce Ms Ls overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman