DRN-3496482
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that One Insurance Limited declined a claim on his breakdown cover. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr P called One Insurance to use his breakdown cover, which came with 
his motor policy, to request assistance. He had a flat tyre, caused by a puncture, outside his 
home. During the call Mr P told One Insurance hed tried to replace the tyre but had 
accidentally broken off part of the wheel locking nut key in the process. One Insurance said 
he wasnt covered as the problem was down to human error rather than a mechanical 
failure. So Mr P paid for a local garage to recover his car instead. 
Mr P subsequently complained to One Insurance about having to arrange his own 
assistance. The insurer responded to say the claim had been declined due to the following 
exclusion in the policy terms: Vehicles that have not been regularly serviced or breakdown 
as a result of inadequate repair/unsuccessful DIY; any reoccurring claim no remedial action 
has been taken to correct the fault. Unhappy with the response, Mr P referred the matter to 
our service for review.
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld. In her view, One Insurance 
hadnt fairly applied the term in question  as the breakdown wasnt the result of any 
inadequate repair or unsuccessful DIY, the punctured tyre was. One Insurance responded 
to say claims for wheel changes were also excluded if there wasnt a locking wheel nut. But 
the investigator explained there was a locking wheel nut  but the key was damaged during 
Mr Ps attempt to change the tyre. She recommended One Insurance covered Mr Ps outlay, 
less the applicable excess, and paid an additional £50 compensation for the trouble caused.
One Insurance didnt agree the claim ought to have been covered and so the complaint was 
passed to me, an Ombudsman, for a final decision on the matter. I wrote to One Insurance 
to say I didnt consider any of the three reasons it had given Mr P fairly applied in the 
circumstances. But ultimately the claim wouldnt have been covered, as the policy excluded 
Assistance at your home or within 0.5 miles of your home address, and Mr P had told One 
Insurance during the initial call hed broken down outside his house. 
I told the insurer I planned to award £100 compensation for Mrs Ps wasted effort and the 
poor service. I explained that was because hed had to go through a protracted complaints 
process in order to get the simple explanation he should have got during the initial call. One 
Insurance didnt agree  it said Mr P was never eligible for assistance, so it was 
unreasonable for me to deem compensation payable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint  and Ive decided to award him £100 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Mr P was, over time, provided with three reasons by One Insurance as to why his claim 
wasnt covered. He was initially told over the phone that assistance wouldnt be provided 
under his policy as the problem was down to human error rather than a mechanical failure. I 
dont agree that was a clear explanation  there isnt a term in the policy relating to human 
error, and puncture assistance is covered. The agent might have been trying to allude to the 
unsuccessful DIY term, but as Ive explained below I dont agree that was relevant.
One Insurance has since pointed to two other terms in the breakdown cover, which it has 
said means the claim wasnt covered. One of those, listed under exclusions, was: Vehicles 
that have not been regularly serviced or breakdown as a result of inadequate 
repair/unsuccessful DIY; any reoccurring claim no remedial action has been taken to correct 
the fault. But I dont agree that term fairly applied in the circumstances  the breakdown 
wasnt the result of Mr Ps attempted repair, it was down to the punctured tyre (which the 
policy did cover).
The other term One Insurance wanted to rely on was: Wheel changes, burst tyres and 
puncture assistance, a further £35.00 excess is applicable for these claims. (Excluded if 
there is no locking wheel nut). Again, I dont agree that exclusion fairly applied here  as 
there was a locking wheel nut. I appreciate Mr P had snapped off part of the wheel locking 
nut key, but Ive seen nothing that persuades me the locking nut wouldnt have been easily 
removed  particularly given the type of equipment Id expect a breakdown recovery service 
to have when providing assistance. In any event, the policy covered recovery to a garage, 
even if the nut couldnt be removed at the roadside.
There was another exclusion in the policy that I consider did apply: Assistance at your home 
or within 0.5 miles of your home address. During the initial call to request assistance Mr P 
told the agent he had a puncture/flat tyre outside his house  so a call out wouldnt have 
been covered. That means hed have always had to spend the money he did on arranging
his own breakdown assistance. Ive considered One Insurances response to my provisional 
thoughts, but that hasnt changed my mind about compensation being payable though.
I still find that not giving Mr P the correct (and only) reason for why his claim wasnt covered, 
during the initial call, has resulted in some wasted effort on his part. Mr P has had to wait this 
long, and ultimately come to us, before getting a satisfactory explanation. Hes also been left 
with the feeling that the insurer used whatever term/reason it could, to avoid providing 
assistance. Regardless of whether Mr P was ever eligible for assistance, that poor service 
from One Insurance has resulted in some inconvenience and frustration. Taking account of 
all the above, I consider £100 to be the fair amount to compensate that impact. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ps complaint about One Insurance Limited and direct the 
insurer to pay him £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman