DRN-4444139
Complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In April 2019, Moneybarn provided Miss S with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £4,600.00. Miss S didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 60-month conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the entire £4,600.00. The loan had interest, fees and 
total charges of £4,297.20 and the total amount to be repaid of £8,897.20 was due to be 
repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £150.80. 
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Miss S complaint should be upheld. Miss S disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss S could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss S. During this assessment, Miss S provided details of her monthly 
income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Miss S which showed that 
Miss S had no County Court Judgments withing the past 12 months but had some defaults 
with the most recent being seven months or so prior to this application. 
And when the amount Miss S already owed plus a reasonable amount for Miss S living 
expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss S says she was already struggling at 
the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss S and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, Moneybarn will have seen adverse information recorded on Miss S 
credit file as a result of the credit search carried out. I dont think that the adverse information 
in itself meant that Moneybarn shouldnt have lent. But Im satisfied that Moneybarn needed 
to take further steps to verify Miss S actual living costs, rather than rely on average data, in 
order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Id normally go on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Miss S. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Miss S regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
To be clear, given what Miss S has done in terms of colour coding her expenditure and 
considering the order of her payments, I think its important for me to explain that Im not 
going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were affordable. Im 
simply going to consider what Moneybarn is likely to have done if it obtained the information 
I think it should have done, which is get an understanding of Miss S living costs. And as 
Moneybarn didnt have to request bank statements to do this, the level of granularity Miss S 
is now employing to assess affordability simply wouldnt have been proportionate here. 
Ive considered the information Miss S has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Miss S committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from her monthly income, she did have the funds, 
at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
It might also help to explain that what Im required to think about here in order to determine 
whether Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss S, is whether Miss S had 
sufficient disposable income to enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. 
Whilst its possible that she may have had to reorder her payments, Im satisfied that the 
available information indicates that Miss S had sufficient funds in order for the monthly 
payments to this agreement to be made in a sustainable manner. 
Furthermore, while Miss S has referred to her gambling, which I consider was for a 
potentially significant amount given the amount of it and the monthly repayment for this loan, 
Moneybarn wasnt aware of this. And its difficult for me to see how Moneybarn could have 
factored this information in given it wasnt aware of it and Miss S didnt volunteer it either. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Miss S did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. Overall Ive therefore not been persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly towards Miss S 
when it lent to her and Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman