The complaint
Miss H says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Miss H has said she should have been given the loan as she 
already had county court judgments (CCJs) against her and other debts and defaults on 
her credit file. She couldnt afford to meet her essential household expenditure.     
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Satsuma provided to Miss H in June 2016. The 
amount borrowed was £200 which was to be repaid over 30 weeks at a cost of £13.27 per 
week. My understanding is the loan balance is still to repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to her were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving Miss H the loan. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said that based on her credit file and the number of defaults and 
CCJs that showed, she didnt think she should have been given the loan. She said she 
wasnt asked for any evidence of her income and expenditure, the latter of which she had a 
lot. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
DRN-1464903the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loan. This 
included information about Miss Hs income and expenditure to establish whether the loan 
was affordable for her. It also included a credit risk assessment. 
Miss Hs income was recorded as being £2,800 per month. Her expenditure was £1,263 a 
month to which Satsuma added a buffer amount of £196.31 per months. So, this would leave 
Miss H with a disposable monthly income of £1,287 after taking account of the monthly loan 
repayment. Taking this into account I dont think the loan looks unaffordable on a pounds 
and pence basis. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Miss H provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned 
that she was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Miss Hs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if her 
circumstances were different  which Miss H has said is the case  Miss Hs actual financial 
position may well have been more apparent if further information  such as bank statements 
or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. Miss H has given us a copy of her 
credit report and I see it shows two CCJs (2014 and 2015) and she had been using other short-term credit providers, but I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to have gathered such 
detailed information at the first point of lending to her. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loan was the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or unsustainable 
for Miss H. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Miss H for evidence of her income and outgoings 
which Satsuma could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by, Satsuma 
before it lent to Miss H. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led 
Satsuma to conclude that it should decline Miss Hs application for the loan. And there isnt 
anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Miss H. So, I dont think 
Satsuma was wrong to have provided this loan, based sold on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Miss H wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Miss Hs complaint will be a disappointment to her, but I hope I have managed 
to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not uphold Miss Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15July2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman