DRN-3356920
The complaint
Mr C complains Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold a flexible share endowment policy. 
He says the amount of monthly fees and charges are too high. Additionally, he is unhappy 
with how Phoenix dealt with the complaint and that hes unable to switch funds. 
What happened
Mr C took out a unit linked endowment policy in 1984. The premium was £58.82 per month 
with a sum assured of £59,063. The policy commenced in March 1984 with a maturity date 
of March 2030. 
In April 2021, Mr C complained to Phoenix. His concerns included that hed been sold a 
policy which wasnt suitable, and the associated fees and charges were too high. There was 
complaint correspondence in May and June 2021 and Mr C became concerned with how his 
complaint was being handled. He was also told he was unable to switch funds. 
 
Phoenix provided a final response to the complaint in June 2021. They apologised for 
addressing Mr C as Mrs and for the delay in responding to his complaint. They arranged a 
payment of £100 to be sent by cheque. They didnt uphold the other issues which had been 
raised by Mr C. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Our Investigator felt the £100 already 
paid to Mr C was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he said: 
 
- He was surprised the Investigator had relied on the marketing leaflet even though 
Phoenix had not been able to provide a signed agreement to underpin their 
extortionate fees.
- Under Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FCA) our service has fair and 
reasonable jurisdiction and his complaint should be upheld because of the 
exploitative commissions charged. 
 
- In the case of Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd (Plevin) a judgment was made 
about the use of commissions and this authority should be applied here. Also, that 
we should diverge from previous decisions on endowment policies as the law has 
now been clarified. 
Phoenix had nothing further to add. Therefore, the complaint has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale
Phoenix have explained that there was a marketing campaign which lead to the distribution 
of leaflets. They were posted to potential customers and appeared in the newspaper. Having 
reviewed a copy of the leaflet, I cant see it confirmed any advice would be provided with the 
sale.  
Ive also seen the policy schedule issued at the time and correspondence which confirmed 
the payment provision from May 1984. They do not contain any reference to advice being 
given. Based on what Ive seen and on balance, Im satisfied its unlikely Phoenix gave 
advice at the point of sale and so didnt provide advice about the appropriateness of the 
policy. As there was no requirement for them to do so, Im not persuaded they did anything 
wrong here. 
 
Nevertheless, I would still expect them to provide reasonably clear information about how 
the policy worked so an informed decision could be made. I do have to bear in mind this 
policy was sold in 1984 and a lot of time has passed. As a result of this, not everything from 
the point of sale is available but Phoenix have confirmed they have sent their file. I must 
weigh the information I do have and decide what I think is more likely to have happened on 
balance. 
Ive seen the marketing leaflet offered a free illustration and specimen policy to customers 
who provided some information. Also, Ive reviewed the policy schedule and can see it does 
set out important information. For example, it sets out the sum assured, premium amount, 
investible premium and maturity date. 
The schedule also confirmed the policy was issued on the terms set out in the terms and 
conditions. Ive reviewed this document and can see it provided more detail about the policy 
including information about the Multiple Growth Fund. 
Overall, Im content its likely from what I have seen that sufficient information was provided 
at the point of sale to enable an informed decision to be made about taking out the policy. 
  
Charges and Fees
I appreciate Mr C is very concerned about the fairness and transparency of the fees he has 
been charged and referred to Plevin. However, the supreme court decision focused on the 
non-disclosure of commission paid when Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) was sold. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have confirmed it doesnt apply to other insurance types 
other than PPI. PPI is a type of insurance built into the debt. The ruling doesnt apply here 
because this complaint is about a standalone endowment policy which is a different type of 
policy altogether. 
Ive reviewed the policy schedule and can see it confirmed the premium was £58.82 per 
month. Also, that the investment commencement date was 6 October 1986. From then, the 
investible premium was stated to be £55.10. The terms and conditions also provided 
information about the mortality charge and the investment fund charge. So, I can see 
Phoenix sought to provide information about the deductions from the outset.  
Ive also seen a copy of annual statements provided by Phoenix. Additionally, Ive seen a 
letter dated 23 September 2019 in which Phoenix set out charges as required under newly 
introduced legislation (Insurance Distribution Directive). The later annual statements did 
include indicative information about the relevant charges (charges on new premiums; 
charges taken by the cancellation of units; and unit-linked investment fund charges). Prior to 
this, the annual statements did not contain this information specifically, but I wouldnt 
necessarily expect them to as it hadnt previously been required. Moreover, Ive seen Phoenix also provided information when Mr C complained. Phoenix 
provided information about the fees and charges in their letters dated 23 April, 15 May and 
18 June 2021. This included information about the policy fee, unit allocation charge, mortality 
charge (also called life cover charge) and investment fund charge. It also covered the full 
duration of the policy.
Ive also considered the level of charges and I dont consider them to be unusually high. For 
example, Im content a 1% annual management charge is within a reasonable range of what 
Id expect to see. And the charges have increased from when the policy was first incepted as 
a result of Mr Cs getting older and the overall fund value increasing. 
Therefore, I can understand Mr Cs concern about the impact of the charges on the growth 
of the fund value. However, a major factor of this was the general performance of the fund 
and the stock markets not performing as well as expected. This is outside of Phoenixs 
control and couldnt have been foreseen at the outset of the policy. So, I cant conclude the 
limited growth of the value shows the charges were excessive. 
I understand what Mr C has said about a signed agreement, but this doesnt persuade me 
the charges were unreasonable or unfair because there was information provided at the 
outset and throughout the duration of the policy. Moreover, Ive not seen evidence Phoenix 
have administered the policy differently to their predecessors. They dont need consent 
when taking over the policy on the same terms. Therefore, Im not persuaded theyve done 
anything wrong here.
 
I also appreciate Mr C asked to change the fund. In their letter of 18 June 2021, Phoenix 
explained the Multiple Growth Fund was the only fund available for this type of policy. I can 
understand why this would be disappointing for Mr C and I do recognise that such switches 
are possible with some policies. However, its not unusual for this to be limited on older 
policies. And it wouldnt be reasonable for me to determine Phoenix should offer a fund 
switch, where its not available as part of the policy which was sold.
 
Phoenix have accepted they should have responded to Mr Cs concerns sooner and that 
there was an error in how they addressed Mr C in the correspondence. Theyve already paid 
£100 to recognise the error in their correspondence and delay in responding to the 
complaint. This is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im not persuaded theyve 
done anything wrong in respect of the charges or sale of the policy. Having considered 
everything, Im not going to ask Phoenix to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint as Phoenix Life Limited have paid Mr C £100 to settle the 
complaint and this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman