DRN-3744124
The complaint
Mr H complains that Caxton Payments Ltd failed to release his own funds for use whilst he 
was abroad.
What happened
Mr H opened a Caxton card for use whilst he was travelling abroad and loaded it with his
own funds. During a trip to Europe, he attempted to withdraw some of his funds from an
Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
Once Mr H put his card into the ATM, it gave an error message and released his card, but
didnt dispense any funds. Mr H noticed that the withdrawal attempt was showing as a
pending transaction in his app and contacted Caxton the same day and explained what
had happened.
Mr H asked Caxton to reverse the transaction to allow him to use his funds loaded on the
card whilst he was on his trip. Caxton replied to Mr H and told him that the transaction was
cancelled by the merchant but was still pending. Caxton further explained they had to wait
for 21 days before it could be released unless the merchant gave their authority earlier, but
this was the responsibility of Mr H (to approach the merchant) and Caxton couldnt approach
the merchant on his behalf.
Mr H didnt think this was correct and believed the type of authorisation system used for
ATM transactions prevented them from being held in a pending state. He continued to ask
for the return of his funds. After 21 days the funds still hadnt been released and Caxton
manually released the funds back to Mr Hs card and admitted theyd had a technical error.
Mr H complained to Caxton, who after looking into the matter offered Mr H £10 to recognise
the delay in releasing his funds. Mr H rejected their explanation about what had happened
and their offer. He then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an
independent review. Caxton also agreed to remove their transaction fee (£1.50) for moving
Mr Hs money back to his account.
Mr Hs complaint was looked into by one of our Adjudicators who reviewed the information
provided by both parties. He thought that it was reasonable for Caxton to rely on their
procedures to wait for the ATM merchant to release the funds. He also thought that the £10
offer was fair to recognise the error when Caxtons automatic system didnt release the funds
after 21 days.
Mr H disagreed with the Adjudicators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint. Mr H thought that Caxtons reliance on their policy was wrong and continued to
comment that the type of authorisation system used for ATMs prevented pending
transactions.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H tried to use the ATM, it returned his card without dispensing any cash. Caxton
explained to Mr H that the ATM withdrawal was declined due to a counter reset timeout,
and as such, cancelled your withdrawal request.
When asked about this, Caxton explained that the transaction was still pending and
couldnt be released until 21 days had passed, when their own system would automatically
release the payment. This didnt happen and it took a manual intervention by Caxton to
release the funds from its pending state.
Caxton informed Mr H that they couldnt release the funds without express permission from
the merchant and they (Caxton) werent able to approach the merchant on Mr Hs behalf.
The information that Caxton were able to see when they looked into the issue seemed to
indicate that Mr Hs withdrawal request had been cancelled. Caxton argued that this still
meant that the payment was pending on their system and couldnt be released  but they
also told Mr H that they were unable to contact the merchant themselves  despite their own
agreement with Mr H that stipulated the release of payments was at Caxtons discretion:
Once a Transaction is Authorised, it cannot be withdrawn or revoked unless both the
Merchant and We agree to allow You to revoke it at Our discretion.
Im unsure why Caxton wouldnt contact the merchant in this particular case. The information
they had about the transaction from both Mr H and what they could see on their own system
indicated the funds hadnt been dispensed. In fact, it said the transaction had been
cancelled. Whilst I appreciate Caxton considered the transaction was still pending, it would
seem reasonable for them to have cleared this up with the merchant.
It doesnt seem likely that a transaction that was identified as cancelled would later be
claimed by the merchant  and if it was, Mr H would have grounds to dispute it. If, on the
other hand, Caxton had released Mr Hs funds earlier based on his statements and the
information they already had about the transaction  and it turned out that the merchant had
dispensed the funds  Caxtons agreement with Mr H enabled them to claim those funds
back from him.
Caxton informed Mr H that their policy was to wait for 21 days and referred to their website
FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) to highlight where this information was available.
Having viewed the website on the link provided by Caxton, I wasnt able to determine that
the information concerning the pending transactions wait time was available to Mr H either
when he signed his agreement with Caxton or when the aborted transaction took place.
Thats because it appears that the website was only recently updated with this information.
Ive also thought about what Mr H argued concerning the type of authorisation used when he
attempted to withdraw cash from the ATM. Mr H argued that the single message system
used for these types of transactions negated the possibility of a pending transaction because
it was either authorised or not. Whilst that may be the case, I dont think its central to the
issue here.
Caxton were aware from information available to them at the time that the transaction had
been cancelled because thats what they told Mr H. Their position then seems to have been
to rely on their policy of waiting for 21 days before releasing the funds. They could have
clarified this with the merchant at the time and released the funds to Mr H but chose not to.
In fact, they told him they werent able to contact the merchant and it was up to Mr H to do it
himself.I found that comment unhelpful in the context of Mr Hs circumstances. He was abroad at the
time and was looking to Caxton to assist him as it was their card that was used at the ATM.
Mr H was told to contact the provider of a foreign ATM to sort it out himself before Caxton
would release the funds. I dont think it would have been particularly straight forwards for Mr
H to do that.
The funds also werent released automatically and it then took a manual intervention to do
that  something that Caxton could have considered doing at their discretion much earlier in
the process.
I appreciate Caxton cant control the actions of merchants and its reasonable for them to
have a policy to deal with payment issues. But here, my current thoughts are that rigidly
sticking to that policy hasnt resulted in a fair outcome for Mr H.
Caxton agreed to remove the transfer costs (£1.50) which I think was a reasonable response
to the situation, but I dont think their offer of £10 adequately recognises their lack of service
to Mr H when he was asking Caxton for their help whilst abroad.
Im currently intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Caxton to pay Mr H £75 for
the unnecessary stress and inconvenience they caused him.
I invited Mr H and Caxton to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr H accepted my decision and Caxton didnt 
have anything further to add about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Putting things right
Caxton are now required to pay Mr H £75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Caxton Payments Ltd are instructed to 
settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman