DRN-2083539
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms S. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996 alongside a store credit account. Ms S 
was sold the policy when she applied for the account by filling in a credit application form. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms S has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Ms S filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make 
by ticking a box. So I think Ms S would have known the PPI was optional.
Ive looked at whether Allianz assessed Ms Ss personal circumstances and then told her (or 
led her to believe) that, based on those circumstances, the PPI was a good fit for her. This is 
what, in the insurance world, would be called a recommended or advised sale. This can 
sometimes be significant because it means we would hold Allianz to a higher standard in its 
sales process  we would want to see that the PPI was actually suitable for Ms S.
I know that, on the form, it said We strongly recommend you take this cover by ticking the 
box; and Ms S has referred me to the dictionary definition of recommend to say it supports 
her case. But I dont think Ms S, at the time, would have taken the printed statement as 
meaning a personalised assessment had been made  clearly everyone receiving the form 
would have read the same thing. It was rather that Allianz was saying it thought the PPI was 
a good idea for all its customers. And I dont think there is evidence that Allianz made a 
personal assessment of Ms Ss needs. So I dont think it had a duty to check the PPI was 
suited to Ms Ss circumstances. Instead it was for her to decide on that. 
I would though add that, even if it had made a recommendation in that higher sense, I still 
wouldnt say it had failed in that duty. From what Ms S has told us of her circumstances, she 
was eligible for the insurance, and so could make a claim if the need arose. The PPI would 
potentially have paid out for longer than any employer sick pay (and at the same time); and it 
also would have paid out on top of any redundancy pay. And I havent seen evidence of 
significant savings Ms S could have fallen back on. Ms S has mentioned help she could 
have received from her family, but the PPI would have meant she wouldnt need to call on 
that help so soon. Also, she wouldnt have been caught by any of the significant restrictions 
in the policy. 
Even though it wasnt recommended, in the insurance sales sense of the word, Allianz did 
still have to give enough information for its customers to make an informed choice. I can see 
the form does give some basic information about the formula for the cost, but I dont think 
that was enough. It could have made it clearer what the formula meant, and the fact that the 
premiums would attract interest in the same way as if theyd been a credit card purchase. 
Also, there could have been information about how long benefits would be paid, and what 
the main exclusions were (such as pre-existing medical conditions). Its possible this 
information was supplied at the time in some other format, but Ive not got evidence of this. 
That doesnt, by itself, mean the PPI was mis-sold. Instead I have to look at the likely 
consequences of insufficient information  in particular, would better information have led 
Ms S to change her mind and not take PPI? I cant of course know for sure what Ms S would 
have thought, so instead I must decide on whats most likely.
My conclusion is that better information probably wouldnt have made a difference. It looks 
likely that, at the point of filling in the PPI, Ms S did decide she wanted PPI and was 
prepared to pay a premium for it. And I dont think the higher potential cost from the interest 
is likely to have been significant enough to change her mind; and shed have seen that the 
PPI would have paid out potentially for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. So better 
information isnt likely to have made the PPI significantly less useful.
Overall, I cant say I have strong enough evidence to decide this PPI was mis-sold to Ms S. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman