DRN-1772989
 
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC have treated her across several 
issues and feels Barclays has discriminated against her.
What happened
Ms B feels Barclays has discriminated against her because of her disability and breached 
the Equality Act by not making reasonable adjustments.
Ms B raises four issues:
receiving marketing communications
usage of the instant messaging service
being sent letters after she has requested only email or secure messaging contact
being asked to call Barclays after she had told them she couldn't speak on the phone
 
After contacting Barclays several times about the issues, Ms B remained unhappy 
and brought her complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into 
things.He thought Barclays fell short by both sending letters, and asking Ms B to call, when 
she had told them she wanted only email or secure message communications. For this he 
thought Barclays should pay £100 to acknowledge the frustration caused; to which they 
agreed.
Ms B still felt strongly about the issues saying she didn't think Barclays were taking the 
matter seriously, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has complained that Barclays has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In 
other words, has failed in their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 
2010. I've taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint - given that 
it's the relevant law - but I've ultimately decided this complaint based on what's fair and 
reasonable. If Ms B wants a decision whether Barclays has breached the Equality Act 
21010, then she'll need to go to court.
Ms B hasn't provided Barclays, or this service, with details of her disability. Our investigator 
asked Ms B for more details about her disability, but I can understand her want for privacy. 
What is clear to me is that what happened has caused Ms B a great deal of anxiety 
causing effects such as difficulties talking on the phone, visual disturbance, dizziness and 
loss of train of thought.Ms B has provided a lot of information about her complaint. She feels strongly about what 
Barclays should do, and why she feels she has been discriminated against. I want to 
reassure Ms B that I've read and considered everything she has provided, even if I do not 
mention all the detail. I've condensed all the information into a brief summary which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. I'm satisfied I understand the crux of the problems which 
fall under the four following headings.
receiving marketing communications
Ms B was unhappy because she was receiving marketing material such as letters and 
emails that she didn't want. Barclays looked into this and opted Ms B out of marketing for 
all areas of the Barclays group. They explained there might be a delay of up to eight weeks 
due to how the marketing works, but that it should stop soon. 
Ms B received some marketing material after this date and was unhappy about the 
continued inconvenience. 
From what I've seen this material arrived within the eight weeks Barclays said it would take 
to stop, and nothing has been received after that time.
Whilst I can't say for sure when Ms B was opted into receiving the marketing material,I'm 
satisfied Barclays acted on Ms B's request for the marketing to stop.
usage of the instant messaging service
An instant messaging service is available on the Barclays mobile phone banking application 
where customers can chat and get answers instantly.Buton the Barclays website a secure 
messaging service is used where it could take some time for a customer to get a response.
Ms B doesn't want to use the mobile phone banking application as she has concerns about 
security, and doesn't want to see advertisements when using it. Ms B also says she doesn't 
use the telephone so feels he ronly option to communicate with Barclays is by using the 
secure messaging service on the website.
A lot of Ms B's concerns here seem to stem from things that might happen, rather things that 
have actually happened.Ms B is concerned that if she was a victim of fraud and reported this 
on the website using the secure online message service she might have to wait up to 24 
hours for a response.To stop this worry Ms B wants the instant messaging service to be 
available on the website as it is on the mobile phone banking application.
Barclays says there are no advertisements on the mobile phone banking application and that 
the instant messaging is a secure line of communication.
It's beyond my power, and the remit of this service, to tell a business to change their 
procedures, or to tell them to use a different kind of software on their computer systems. So I 
can't do what Ms B wants us to do.
What I can do is look into consumers concerns when they feel something has gone wrong 
and a business hasn't treated them fairly. Here, thankfully,nothing has actually gone wrong 
for Ms B and there hasn't been any fraud on her account. She is worried about what might 
go wrong, or what might be a problem in the future. I can see why Ms B has concerns, 
however I can't look into something that hasn't happened.
I also don't think there are any other options other than what has been offered.being sent letters after requesting only email of secure messaging contact
Because of her disability Ms B told Barclays on at least three occasions that she did not 
want any postal correspondence. Ms B only wanted to be communicated with by either email 
or secure messaging on the website. Ms B says that receiving letters caused her anxiety.
Whilst Barclays were investigating Ms B's complaint, they sent her update letters in the post, 
even though she had requested they do not do this.
When Barclays had looked into Ms B's complaint, including that they had written to her when 
she had requested them not to, they wrote to her with an answer. Again, even though Ms B 
had requested not to have postal correspondence, Barclays wrote to her.
Barclays explained they had to send the letters as part of their regulatory responsibilities. So 
they didn't think they had done anything wrong. 
As part of the same investigation Barclays paid Ms B £50 for the overall service she had 
received, but maintained they weren't upholding the complaint about the letters.
I think Barclays could've done more here. If the letters had to be issued, I think 
Barclays should've contacted Ms B in one of the ways she requested to let her know that 
they were on their way. This wouldve reduced the upset caused.
being asked to call Barclays after she had told them she couldn't speak on the phone
Ms B had made clear to Barclays that she couldnt talk on the phone. 
As Ive explained above, Barclays wrote to Ms B when she had asked them not to do so. 
Within these letters Barclays said that Ms B should call them if she needed to update her 
contact details, or if she needed to tell them anything. Barclays did this even though Ms B 
had told them she couldn't use the telephone. 
Considering what Barclays knew about Ms B preferred method of contact I think they 
should've taken more care when communicating with her. Even if Barclays didn't know the 
full detail of Ms B's disability, I think it was foreseeable that a request to call them would've 
caused some offence as they were aware of her communication preferences.
In the final response letter Barclays sent Ms B they acknowledged that she was thinking of 
changing her banking. They asked her to call if she wanted to close her account. This upset 
Ms B again as shed explained many times that she couldn't use the telephone.
Putting things right
Overall I think Barclays couldve done better in taking into account how Ms B wanted to 
communicate as this had been made clear several times.Our Investigator recommended 
Barclays pay £100 for what happened and the upset this caused, this is in addition to the 
£50 that was paid for different issues.
Having looked at everything that happened I think £100 is fair compensation for the upset 
caused to Ms B.
Ms B says she feels Barclays has discriminated against her given the problems 
she's experienced. I can understand why Ms B feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence I can't agree.I hope it helps Ms B to know that someone impartial and independent 
has looked into her concerns.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman