DRN-2427046
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way he has been treated by Contis Financial Services Limited.
What happened
What follows is intended to be a summary of the background behind Mr Ms complaint. It 
isnt intended to be a detailed timeline events and therefore does not include every event 
that has happened. 
Mr M had a dispute about a transaction on his account, he raised this with Contis and while 
dealing with that matter he also asked for a copy of the information that Contis hold on him. 
Mr M complained to Contis about those matters and also registered a court claim in respect 
of the account dispute.
Contis responded to Mr Ms complaint in December 2019 and awarded him some 
compensation. At the same time, it also paid the court claim settlement. Mr M confirmed to 
Contis by email that he accepted the settlements in full and final settlement of all matters 
and complaints to that date.
Mr M continued to have issues with receiving his request for information and made further 
complaints to Contis about those issues and the way in which it was handling those 
complaints. Mr M also queried payments on his account during that time, but these queries 
were dealt with.
Mr M complained to Contis as he was unhappy it was failing to meet its obligation in respect 
of responding to his complaints in line with complaint handling regulations, he also felt his 
account was being mis-managed, staff had accused him of lying and had given him poor 
service. Mr M was also unhappy that Contis was refusing to sign a statement of truth that 
hed had a solicitor prepare and that it was declining to settle matters out of court on terms 
he had suggested.
Contis responded to Mr Ms further complaints and Mr M brought his complaints to this 
service. Mr M also registered two further court claims in January 2020.
In those court claims Mr M mentioned the following issues: how the information request from 
October 2019 had been dealt with, that a full disclosure hadnt been made, Contis have 
refused to settle the matter out of court, Contis wont communicate with him anymore, it 
provided calls by email which he believes a breach of Contis privacy policy, he has been 
branded a liar, his complaint has not been dealt with in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account, complaint handling regulations have been breached and call handlers have 
hung up on him.
In supporting evidence, Mr M provided the court with various emails and call recordings, 
emails relating to an out of court settlement where he said Contis breached its own terms, 
multiple emails and letters confirming his account has been mismanaged and evidence of 
costs in terms of account charges and legal advice bills.
At the same time as Mr M contacted this service about his complaints, Contis wrote to Mr M 
to let him know it would be shutting his account. Contis said it realised Mr M had previously 
had an account on Contis platform which had been shut for a breach of terms and 
conditions. Contis says because of this it should never have opened the account he holds 
now. It refunded all of the charges made on the account and gave Mr M notice the account 
was to be closed.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaints. She told Mr M that as this service had already 
looked into his complaint about disputed transactions on the account, she wouldnt look into 
them again under this complaint reference. She also noted that Mr Ms complaints about 
how Contis dealt with his request for information was also being dealt with at the service 
under a different reference, so again she let Mr M know she wouldnt be considering those.
The investigator concentrated her review on the service Mr M received and Contis refusal to 
sign a statement of truth and agree to an out of court settlement. The investigator didnt 
think Contis had done anything wrong, she couldnt interfere in its decision not to sign the 
document or agree to a settlement. She also said she didnt think given the time Mr M had 
sent the document in December, Contis overly delayed in responding to Mr M. The 
investigator acknowledged Mr M had had previous issues with Contis which had been 
resolved by a settlement but overall, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Further developments.
The court cases reached mediated settlements in March 2020. Mr M let this service know he 
was still unhappy about the way hed been treated by Contis and he felt the reason it had 
given for closing his account was incorrect.
Contis hadnt previously considered a complaint about the closure of the account, but it 
agreed for this service to consider the matter as part of this complaint.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 27 November 2020. I said I intended to 
dismiss the majority of the complaint points Mr M had made and that I didnt intend to uphold 
the remaining point. I gave the following reasons:
Our services powers are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) Rules. These are available on the FCAs website, and under section 
3.3.4A sets out grounds for the dismissal of complaints without consideration of the merits if 
an ombudsman considers that:
(1) the complaint is frivolous or vexatious; or
(2) the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being dealt with, by
a comparable ADR entity; or
(3) the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings
where there has been a decision on the merits; or
(4) the subject matter of the complaint is the subject of current court proceedings, 
unless proceedings are stayed or sisted (by agreement of all parties, or order of the 
court) so that the matter may be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service; or
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.From the information available to me, Mr M agreed in full and final settlement to receive a 
compensation payment in December 2019 for all matters raised up to that date. Contis also 
paid a court settlement which related to issues about how the account had operated. In the 
court claims Mr M registered in January 2020, he mentions many of the issues he has also 
asked this service to consider. The claims have been mediated by the courts and 
settlements reached.
Mr M has said the Court and Contis agreed that he could continue with his complaints at this 
service in order that he could receive further compensation. The mediated settlements make 
no mention of this and, Contis has said its understanding was the court settlements finalised 
matters.
Given Mr M went to the lengths of issuing court claims against Contis, I think on the balance 
of probabilities its likely he discussed issues that had happened on the account, the way in 
which he and his complaints were dealt with and the impact it had on him. The court 
settlements make no mention of this service and they are clearly worded indicating matters 
have reached a conclusion. Based on this, Im satisfied its more likely than not the matters 
Mr M wants to raise with this service have either been previously settled with Contis or have 
been considered by the Court process.
Im also mindful this service has also considered under separate references complaints 
about a disputed transaction on the account and about a request for information including 
how it was handled.
So, taking into account everything Ive said above. Overall, Im satisfied the majority of this 
complaint should be dismissed for the reason set out in DISP rule 3.3.4A(5) - that it would 
seriously impair the effective operation of this Service. This is because it would be 
inappropriate for this Service to consider a complaint which has already been subject to 
court proceedings or previously settled on a full and final basis directly with the business 
concerned, with compensation and costs, paid and accepted.
Given my reasons above, I wont be commenting any further on these matters.
There is one issue however that I think I can consider - the closure of Mr Ms account and 
the fact he thinks the reason given for the closure is incorrect. Mr M was notified his account 
was to be closed after hed registered his third court claim, so I cant be sure this matter was 
included in the court proceedings at a later date.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint point.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account say that Contis can cancel the account, for any 
reason, by providing two months notice. So, Im satisfied Contis acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account by providing the correct notice of closure to Mr M and letting 
him know his account would be shut in early March 2020.
Its clear from the correspondence on this case Mr M is unhappy with how his account 
operated and the service he had been provided. I can also see from the information 
available to me Mr M had himself requested the account be closed and that date was set for 
the end of January 2020.
While Mr M may think Contis shut his account due to the breakdown of the relationship 
between them, I havent seen any evidence to show this is the case. Contis has explained it 
allowed the account Mr M currently has to be opened in error and has showed me 
information to show Mr M had a previous account on the Contis platform.As Ive explained above, the terms and conditions allow the account to be closed for any 
reason so ultimately Contis was able to close the account regardless of the reason it gave.
I dont think Contis have done anything wrong here, so I wont be asking it to pay Mr M any 
compensation.
My provisional decision
I intend to reject Mr Ms complaint against Contis Financial Services Limited.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party has responded to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider 
within the timeframe given in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my original findings.
I think Contis acted fairly and reasonably in closing Mr Ms account after it gave him notice it 
was going to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Contis Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman