DRN-1484165
 
The complaint
Miss S has complained about First Central Insurance Management Limited. She isnt happy 
about the customer service it provided and its failure to take monthly instalments for her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2018 Miss S took out a motor insurance policy through First Central. She opted to 
pay by monthly instalments which was arranged through a credit provider. 
Unfortunately, First Central made a number of errors with her direct debit payment which led 
to Miss S finance agreement being cancelled amongst other things. She was reassured on 
a number of occasions by First Central that things had been put right, when they hadnt and 
Miss S was left owing a large part of her premium. When she complained to First Central it 
agreed its service had been poor and agreed to waive one months instalment, to waive the 
interest on the amount owed and awarded her £100 compensation. 
But Miss S remained unhappy as she was left owing over £380 for the policy which she 
thought should be waived. So Miss S complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He accepted that 
First Central had given Miss S a very poor service, but he thought its offer of compensation, 
alongside a reduction in the cost of her overall insurance was fair. And he asked First 
Central to make sure its repayment schedule for the remaining premium was spread over a 
few months. 
As Miss S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and information to determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss S, but I hope my 
explanation helps her understand why.
Having considered the evidence, I can see Miss S wasnt provided with the level of service 
she expected from First Central. There is no doubt there were several shortcomings when it 
came to their administration of the policy. I can see Miss S did call on several occasions to 
find out what was happening with the repayments and each time she was told everything 
would be fine, but, it wasnt. First Central recognised their error and offered to reduce the 
outstanding balance Miss S owed by just over £200 and offered £100 compensation.
As explained by our investigator, it is important to note that Miss S did get the benefit of an 
annual policy, so she would have been fully insured in the event of an incident throughout 
the policy term. As such, I dont think it would be fair to write off the entire cost of the policy.I know all of this has caused Miss S a fair degree of stress, hassle and inconvenience. And I 
can understand why she feels the level of distress caused should warrant the entire premium 
to be waived, however, I dont believe that would be fair on First Central. I say this as First 
Central has offered a fair amount of compensation already and it is entitled to be paid for the 
policy period. And I think First Centrals offer of waiving a part of the premium and awarding 
£100 compensation feels fair. This, in effect, means Miss S has been awarded just over 
£300 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.  
Turning to the outstanding balance of £387.41 I agree with the investigator that First Central 
should look to spread the payments over at least a six-month period. Ill leave it to agree this 
with Miss S and in the circumstances I would expect it to do all it can to make this as 
manageable as possible for Miss S - after all it failed to collect the payments properly in the 
first place. 
I know Miss S will be disappointed by my findings and I dont doubt the inconvenience and 
stress this has caused her. But, Im not going to ask First Central to do anything further.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman