DRN-1695834
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited accepted his application for a credit card and 
increased his limit when he says he couldnt reasonably afford it. 
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with Vanquis in October 2015. His application was accepted 
and Vanquis gave him a credit limit of £1,000. 
In 2017 Vanquis increased Mr Gs credit limit to £1,750 and then £2,500. Then it increased it 
again in January 2019 to £3,500.
In March 2019 Mr G made a complaint to Vanquis. He said that he was in a lot of debt and 
was on a low income. So he was struggling to make repayments. He said at the time he took 
out the credit card he had defaults showing on his credit file and a number of pay day loans, 
so Vanquis shouldnt have agreed the lending in the first place. Further he said the increases 
to his credit limit were also inappropriate given his circumstances and have led to a spiral of 
debt.  
Vanquis didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had carried out a credit check when he applied 
for the new credit so had been aware of his credit history. It said it provides credit for those 
who may struggle to get it elsewhere, so may accept applicants who have defaulted in the 
past. It said the most recent default was two years ago and the household income he 
provided indicated he would be able to keep up repayments on his debt. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said his credit file had shown he was clearly unable to 
manage his credit accounts and so he shouldnt have been accepted from the start. He 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said Vanquis had provided proof of the checks it had carried out and she was satisfied 
that these were sufficient for it to make a decision. Further she said she thought the credit 
limit increases were fair based on the information Vanquis had available.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. He provided a copy of his credit file at the time 
and said he thinks it clearly shows he wasnt managing his debt well. So Vanquis hadnt 
acted fairly when approving his credit car application and increasing his limit. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels Vanquis acted irresponsibly by offering him credit that he says he couldnt afford 
and then by further increasing his limit. When looking at complaint of this nature I need to decide whether the checks Vanquis carried out when making the lending decisions were 
appropriate and proportionate. And if it made a fair decision based on the information 
available from those checks.
Initial application 
Vanquis has provided us with the information it requested at the time of Mr Gs application. I 
can see it requested a credit check and questioned Mr G about his total income and 
household income. Given the initial credit limit it offered was £1,000 I think these checks are 
appropriate and proportionate. It allowed Vanquis to asses Mr Gs current lending from other 
sources and the income he had in order to meet repayments. 
I have also considered whether Vanquis made a fair decision to lend, based on this 
information. Mr G has provided a full copy of his credit file at the time of his application. He 
says this shows he had a number of pay day loans, so it wasnt suitable for him to borrow 
additional credit. 
I have looked at the information in the report. I can see that Mr G has had credit from a 
number of sources, including pay day lenders. However most of these accounts were settled 
and closed by the time he made the application. And any lending he had at the time was 
minimal and showed he was up to date with payments. 
He also has a few defaults registered on his file. So it is clear that Mr G has had problems 
managing credit in the past. 
Vanquis has explained that it offers credit to higher risk applicants than other banks, in order 
to help rebuild their credit ratings after difficult credit history. So it says it considered the 
adverse information on Mr Gs file, but still decided to offer credit. It said as the last time 
Mr G defaulted was over two years ago, this was sufficient for it to offer credit. However it 
also said due to this difficult history, it offered a modest credit limit of £1,000.
I have considered this and based on the evidence available to Vanquis, I think this is a fair 
decision. It is clear from Mr Gs credit report that he had experienced problems with credit in 
the past. But it appeared that his situation at the time of the application was much improved. 
He had very little borrowing and was up to date with payments. Vanquis has said it accepts 
applications from borrowers who may be declined elsewhere, and it isnt for me to say how 
much of a perceived risk it should take on. However I am satisfied from the checks it carried 
out and the amount of credit offered, that Vanquis acted fairly in handling Mr Gs application.
Credit limit increases
Mr G has also said he thinks Vanquis shouldnt have increased his credit limit on the three 
occasions it did. 
Vanquis has said it based these decisions on Mr Gs management of his credit account and 
a further credit check. It says that there was only one occasion up until 2019 when a monthly 
payment was missed, otherwise the account had been up to date. It said Mr G had been 
making payments well in excess of the minimum due. Further it said its checks had shown 
no further defaults on his file. Based on this it offered an additional three credit increases.
I have looked at the account statements from Mr Gs credit card account and can see it was 
well managed. Further Vanquis has said it send a letter to Mr G each time advising him of 
the credit increase and asking him to get in touch if it wasnt appropriate. Mr G has said he was struggling to keep up with payments to his credit at this time. However 
he didnt inform Vanquis of his financial difficulties and accepted the limit increases rather 
than contacting it. Vanquis based its decision on the information it had. And from what it 
could see, Mr G was keeping up with payments. So I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly 
based on the information it had. And I think the checks it did were sufficient in the 
circumstances.  
I therefore think Vanquis acted fairly by accepting Mr Gs initial application and subsequently 
increasing his credit limit. I therefore wont ask Vanquis to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Vanquis Bank Limited to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman