DRN-2880773
The complaint
Mr G complained that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr G was given a loans by cash4unow as follows: 
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
119/10/17 26/04/18 6 £250 76.30
214/05/18 21/08/18 4 £150 54.10
305/11/18 22/02/19 6 £350 105.52
When Mr G complained to cash4unow it didnt agree it had done anything wrong but it 
offered him a small ex gratia payment to expedite settlement of his complaint.
Mr G didnt feel this offer went far enough and he brought his complaint to us when he 
wasnt able to resolve it with cash4unow. In summary, Mr G said the loans were 
unaffordable  he told us that all his monthly salary was used to pay for his short term loans 
and he had to keep borrowing to pay other bills and buy food.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. He felt that cash4unow shouldnt 
have provided any loans to Mr G and so he upheld the complaint.
cash4unow didnt agree that it provided any of these loans irresponsibly and asked for an 
ombudsman review. It mainly said that it could only rely on information that was visible to 
cash4unow and it was unfair for our adjudicator to rely on information gleaned from looking 
at complaints Mr G had made about other lenders to say it should have realised that its 
loans would be unaffordable for Mr G. 
cash4unow sent us its credit search results so that I was able to see the information it relied 
on when making its lending decision and I took this into account.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. The rules dont say what 
a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan was for, a proportionate check might mean 
a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or check the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks are done and 
a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other reason 
why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised 
that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is already 
struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally be more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and a borrower has to make payments for an extended period).
So when thinking about whether cash4unow took reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly Ive thought about the following key questions:
Did cash4unow carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G was in a position to repay the loan in a way that was sustainable for him  and 
react appropriately to information that those checks showed? 
If cash4unow didnt carry out enough checks, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have likely shown if theyd been done when they shouldve 
been? 
Was cash4unows lending decision fair?
Did cash4unow act in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
cash4unow said it asked Mr G about his employment and income and gathered information 
about what he was spending his money on. It worked out that he had around £1460 
disposable income after paying all his outgoings, including allowing for his spending on other 
credit - which made it look like the monthly repayments of around £76 for this loan would be 
comfortably affordable for Mr G
cash4unow also conducted credit searches which it had mentioned showed, amongst other 
things, that Mr G had 18 active credit accounts already set up. Our adjudicator felt that this 
information alone was enough to have prompted cash4unow to realise that Mr G had evident 
money problems and so it shouldnt have lent further to him.
Our adjudicator also shared with cash4unow other information he could see about Mr Gs 
financial situation at the time in support of his view that further lending wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr G. 
Although, when it made its lending decision, cash4unow didnt see the information thats on 
our records I dont think thats a fair reason for me not to uphold this complaint.  I think the information cash4unow had gathered painted a picture of someone over reliant on 
using credit and it included clear warning signs that Mr  G might be experiencing financial 
difficulty. Heres why I say this.
Im grateful to cash4unow for providing its credit search results. I can see that, as 
cash4unow has said, it was aware that Mr G already had 18 currently active credit accounts 
when he applied to cash4unow for loan 1. 
cash4unow also could see that Mr G had a total of 31 settled credit accounts showing on its 
search  and 12 of his active accounts had been opened within the previous 12 months. 
There are also some entries on the credit search that appear to be abbreviated or coded  
cash4unow hasnt sent any further information explaining how these should be interpreted. 
Its not clear to me exactly what cash4unow wouldve understood from these  and it had 
previously said that its credit check showed no active short term loans and no active short 
term loan balances. But I think its reasonable for me to say that there are a significant 
number of entries on the search that appear to show payday loans  whether or not currently 
active.
cash4unow said its view was that there was nothing in the credit reports it saw that induced 
it not to lend. But I think that all this information shouldve prompted cash4unow to think 
seriously about whether it was likely that Mr G was in a position to take on more credit. It 
wasnt enough in my view to have enabled a responsible lender to be satisfied that further 
credit would be sustainably affordable for Mr G.
Even if cash4unow continues to disagree on this point, I would ask it to consider the 
following. 
The disposable income figure it worked out for Mr G looked to be significantly at odds with 
what its credit search appeared to show. It seems unlikely to me that someone with £1460 
left to spend after other regular outgoings have been accounted for would be likely to have 
such an extensive credit history as shown on Mr Gs record.  
The discrepancy between the information Mr G had declared and what was apparent to 
cash4unow about his use of credit makes me think that, even if it was still considering 
lending to him, it should at the very least have made further enquiries before agreeing to 
provide this loan to Mr G to ensure that it had a proper understanding of the way he was 
using credit. 
As our adjudicator explained, we have information about Mr Gs financial situation at the time 
that I appreciate cash4unow hasnt seen. This includes his bank statements covering the 
months running up to him taking out loan 1. 
Im aware that cash4unows own credit checks might not have shown exactly the same 
information that I've seen. 
But in the absence of other evidence, I think Mr Gs bank statements give a reasonable 
insight into his financial situation at the time and show me how he used credit  information 
which I believe cash4unow could and should have discovered for itself before coming to the 
view that it was able to lend responsibly in this situation.
To be clear, Im not suggesting that cash4unow should have asked to see Mr Gs bank 
statements. cash4unow could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. It could for example 
reasonably have asked Mr G to identify what the 18 active accounts identified on its credit 
checks were  it hasnt shown me that it did this. 
To illustrate the extent of Mr Gs use of credit, on one day in September 2017 he made 
payments to six other short term lenders. In the weeks running up to him taking out loan 1 
with cash4unow he took out at least three other new short term loans. 
Had cash4unow responded proactively to the information it could see on its credit checks 
I think it would likely have found out at least some of the details behind the headline figures it 
saw on its credit checks and learned that Mr G was already paying multiple outstanding 
loans taken out with other providers of high cost short term credit. I think it wouldve been 
clear to cash4unow that Mr G had an established record of reliance on short-term loans 
which wouldve suggested that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think cash4unow did enough to be reasonably 
satisfied that providing loan 1 to Mr G wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his 
overall debts. Given his recent and current borrowing and the apparent unexplained 
discrepancies in his finances, there was a real risk that Mr G might use this loan to help him 
meet his immediate need to make loan repayments or to fund other unaccounted for 
spending that appeared to have led to Mr G being reliant on short term loans, with the result 
this loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
And even if Mr G had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think cash4unow 
had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain why I dont think cash4unow should 
have provided loan 1  or any further loans  to Mr G. And, for all these reasons, why Im 
planning on upholding this complaint. 
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ive heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress cash4unow should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr G, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce cash4unows liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the principal amount that he borrowed when 
he took out these loans because hes had the benefit of the money. 
But he has paid interest (and possibly charges) on loans that shouldnt have been provided 
to him. 
So, cash4unow should take the following steps:
A) refund everything Mr G paid over the principal loan amounts and repay this to 
Mr G with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. cash4unow 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow to take the steps I've 
set out above to put things right for Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman