DRN-3893553
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) delayed adding his daughter 
to his account and ignored his preferred method of communication.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr H asked NatWest to add his daughter to his Select Account. He said he 
attempted this with them over 10 times between the period of 30 August and 29 September, 
however NatWest refused to accept the identification documents submitted. 
Mr H wrote a letter of complaint to NatWest on 26 September, followed by an email on 29 
September, asking for his daughter to be added to the account, for the name on the account 
to be corrected, and for compensation to cover the inconvenience caused. 
NatWest sent an acknowledgment letter on 4 October, and Mr H sent further complaint 
correspondence on the following dates:  
7 October, 22 October, 5 November, 16 November, 23 November, and 2 December 2022. 
In his letter of 22 October Mr H specified that he would like email contact only from that 
point. NatWest sent their final response to Mr H by letter on 22 November, and Mr H 
complained further as they had ignored his preference for email. 
NatWest apologised for the time it had taken to add Mr Hs daughter to his account. They 
were unable to establish why there was a delay in the application being processed correctly 
and apologised for the inconvenience it had caused. 
In relation to the time it took to respond to Mr Hs complaint, NatWest explained they sent a 
letter on 4 October which explained their complaint handling procedure, a letter on 16 
October explaining the complaint was still being investigated, and their final response dated 
22 November meant they had investigated Mr Hs complaint within their timescales. 
NatWest also apologised for ignoring Mr Hs preferred method of contact and credited him 
with £150. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that NatWest should increase the compensation to £350. 
He explained that it had taken NatWest 12 weeks to add Mr Hs daughter to his account and 
that they hadnt been able to provide an explanation for the delay. He acknowledged that 
NatWest had also failed to contact Mr H by email after he had specifically asked for this. 
In relation to the name of the account, our investigator explained that while Mr H was 
unhappy with it, it was accurate and we wouldnt be able to ask NatWest to change it. 
NatWest agreed to the increase in compensation, however Mr H disagreed. He said that he 
wanted £1,400 in compensation, and that our investigator hadnt looked into all of his 
complaint points, especially those relating to NatWests letter of 4 October where Mr H said 
they refused, or failed to: 
Provide a copy of their complaints handling procedure 
Adhere to the provisions of a competent complaints handling procedure 
Provide an appropriate two stage appeal process 
Provide him with the ability to request a review of their decision 
Our investigator responded and explained that he was satisfied NatWest had responded 
within the eight weeks that was expected and that they had told Mr H he could complain to 
our service, which was the correct next step. 
While our investigator acknowledged that Mr H wanted a much higher level of compensation, 
he remained of the opinion that an additional £200 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
the same reasons. I will explain why. 
I want to start by acknowledging that Mr H has raised several points as part of his complaint 
and I may not respond to every single point hes raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach and it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it, Im just satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to 
be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Overall, I agree that it took NatWest too long to add Mr Hs daughter to his account. In 
addition to this, NatWest havent been able to give a reason for the delays, but they did 
apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
I also acknowledge that NatWest ignored Mr Hs preferred method of contact. I can see that 
he asked for email contact only on a number of occasions, however even NatWests apology 
on 22 November 2022 was sent by letter. 
For the time it took NatWest to add Mr Hs daughter to his account, and for their failure to 
communicate with him by email, I agree they should award him an additional £200 making 
the total compensation £350. 
In relation to the name on the account, I appreciate that Mr H wanted it to show in a specific 
way. From statements provided, I can see the name on the account includes both his and 
his daughters initials, just not in the order he asked for. I find this fair and reasonable and 
wouldnt be able to ask NatWest to change how they report names on their accounts. 
Mr H raised further complaint points about NatWests letter of 4 October and how it lacked 
the information he wanted. I have read the letter and am satisfied it gave the information it 
needed to. It gave timescales, explained that there was a complaints leaflet enclosed which 
set out their complaint process, and it also let Mr H know that if NatWest werent able to 
resolve his complaint within eight weeks, he could contact our service. 
NatWest investigated Mr Hs concerns and sent their final response to him on 22 November 
which included referral rights to our service. Therefore I am satisfied they kept Mr H 
adequately informed of the next steps and explained the process correctly. Mr H has said that it took over ten attempts to add his daughter to his account and that he 
had to send eight letters of complaint between 31 August and 2 December 2022. He said 
this caused him distress, upset, inconvenience, pain, suffering, anger, and anguish. 
While I appreciate this, Im satisfied NatWest responded to Mr Hs complaint within a 
reasonable time, and I am only asking them to compensate him for the delays in adding his 
daughter to his account and for ignoring his preferred method of contact. 
Because of this, and for the other reasons given above, I wont be asking NatWest to provide 
the level of compensation Mr H has requested as I believe £350 is fair in the circumstances. 
I know Mr H will be unhappy with the outcome reached, but I hope I have explained my 
reasoning clearly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc 
should award Mr H a further £200 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman