DRN-3814020
The complaint
Ms H complains about the repairs carried out by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)
following a buildings insurance claim.
What happened
In 2017, there was a drain blockage at Ms Hs property, which was found to be caused by
tree roots. She made an accidental damage claim under her buildings insurance, which
was accepted by UKI.
UKI arranged for its contractor (that Ill call Company U) to carry out investigations in
2017. They found there had been damage to pipework caused by tree roots, and carried
out repairs. Ms H then reported a foul smell in her property, and investigations were
carried out by various contractors in 2017 and 2018.
In 2021, Ms H advised UKI that there was still a foul smell present in the property. UKI
arranged for another contractor (that Ill call Company A) to carry out investigations.
They found a number of issues with the drains including: - a collapsed drain, redundant
connections that werent capped off, root ingress and joint displacements, and
incorrectly installed pipework that had allowed root ingress to enter via poorly
connected joints. They also thought the manhole cover may have contributed to the
foul smells.
UKI accepted Company As report showed there was root ingress, but said there was no
evidence that the cause was poor workmanship or related to the previous work carried out
by Company U. UKI said it would deal with the matter under a new claim. Unhappy with
this, Ms H brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the available
evidence didnt support Ms Hs assertion that Company U were responsible for the issues
with the pipes. She concluded that it was reasonable for UKI to deal with the matter
under a new claim.
I issued my first provisional decision on 28 September 2022. Heres what I said:
There are two main issues here. Ms H thinks that Company U didnt carry out
appropriate investigations in 2017. She also thinks the repairs that Company U did
carry out to the pipework in 2017 were badly done, and further damage has been
caused as a result.
Ill address Company Us repairs first.
Ive looked at Company Us report from April 2017. This report said a CCTV survey and
drain trace were carried out. The report focused on one main drain, where tree roots
were found. A number of recommendations were made for repairs.
Ive also looked at Company As report from 2021. They carried out a CCTV survey of the
below ground drainage system. This identified several issues with a number of pipes, one
of those being line one. I understand that Company U had worked on line one, as this
was the drain that ran from manhole one.
Company A said that their survey of line one revealed root ingress and joint displacements, 
but also revealed incorrectly installed plastic pipework which had allowed root ingress to 
enter the lines via poorly connected joints. 
Given that Company U did carry out repairs to line one, potentially they could have been
responsible for the incorrectly installed plastic pipework and poorly connected joints. I see
that UKI contacted Company U about this matter to find out what work was done, which is
what I would expect. Company U said they had replaced two metres of pipe from 23
metres. I note that Company A had recommended one metre of pipework be replaced at
24 metres downstream.
Since Company U had replaced two metres of pipework (23  25 metres) on line one,
this would suggest that the root ingress had happened where their work had taken
place. However, Company A didnt specify that this was where the plastic pipework had
been incorrectly installed. I note the CCTV survey only found there to be joint
displacement and root ingress at this point. Company A thought the joint displacements
were due to ground movement, which had allowed the ingress of roots.
That being the case, I havent seen enough evidence to conclude that Company Us 
workmanship was of poor quality and led to later damage.
Ill now consider whether Company U carried out appropriate investigations in 2017.
Company U had returned to the property in August 2017 and said a CCTV survey
confirmed there were no faults within the drains of the property (though they said they
werent able to view the entire run of the drain from the w/c downstream due to the
number of bends). Company A also attended in 2018 and found no issues at that time,
though I understand a CCTV survey wasnt carried out at the time by Company A.
Company U no longer has the CCTV footage that was taken of the drains in 2017, and
so it cannot now be established what lines were inspected. Company U says that if there
had been concerns with other lines, these would have been in their report. Though they
accept that they werent able to access all the lines as their cameras werent able to
navigate these due to the 90-degree bends.
However, Company Us report of April 2017 did refer to a drain trace taking place. As
Company A found in 2021 that no water was able to enter line one from line seven (due to
its collapse), I would assume that a drain trace would have revealed this issue if it had
existed in 2017.
Ms H says the root ingress in the pipework is advanced enough that it would have been
present in 2017, but I havent seen evidence of that. Although Company As report did
reveal root ingress, the CCTV stills do not appear to show significant root ingress.
On balance, there isnt enough information for me to conclude that Company U failed
to carry out an appropriate inspection in 2017, and that the damage identified in 2021
that would be covered under the policy was present in 2017.
Ms H also says that Company U damaged the original manhole cover and replaced it
with the wrong type. However, Company U denies replacing the manhole cover.I see that Company A said in 2021 that the manhole wasnt a double sealed manhole
and may be contributing to the foul smells.
Company U did say in their 2017 report that the manhole was in need of repair, and
recommended that the channel and benching be replaced. They didnt say they
would replace the manhole cover.
However, Ive looked at photos of the manhole cover at the time of the 2017 repairs, and
currently. Ms H is correct that they are different as the original manhole cover did not
have handles, but the current manhole cover (which I understand was tiled over by UKIs
contractor) does have handles. Im satisfied from this that the manhole cover was
replaced, and I think this was likely arranged by UKI. I therefore intend to require UKI to
replace this, given that a double sealed manhole wasnt installed but apparently ought to
have been.
Ms H is unhappy that UKI said it would deal with the damage to the pipes as a new
claim, and charge a new excess. She thinks this should be a continuation of the 2017
claim.
After the repairs were carried out in 2017, Ms H reported a foul smell (that had not
been there before). Investigations took place, and it was thought there may be
another cause. Company A also attended in 2018 and found no issues at that time. In
November 2018, Ms H advised UKI that the foul smell was still present, and said she
would arrange for a local company to investigate. I understand Ms H didnt contact a
local company until 2021. She says they found a complete blockage in line seven. Ms H then 
contacted UKI about the matter in October 2021.
I dont intend to require UKI to deal with the current issues with the pipes as a continuation
of the 2017 claim. As Ive said above, there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude
that Company U didnt carry out an appropriate inspection in 2017. Furthermore, nearly
three years had passed since Ms H had last reported an issue.
Ms H has also complained about the standard of the repairs carried out in 2017. This
wasnt addressed in UKIs final response of December 2021, though Ms H maintains that
she has complained to UKI about this. I understand that UKI has investigated three
previous complaints made by Ms H, but we havent been provided with UKIs final
responses on these, so I dont know if Ms Hs concerns were previously addressed by
UKI. In response to this provisional decision, I would like UKI to provide me with a copy of
all of its previous final responses so I can consider this matter further.
Ms H responded with the following main points:
She said Company U did not carry out a full drain trace in 2017, and only
surveyed line one.
She thinks Company U should have kept CCTV footage for at least ten years, and
thinks they have stated they dont have the footage to cover up that they didnt
carry out the survey they charged for.
She says Company U damaged the damp proof membrane when they excavated
the utility floor.
She said the foul smell has never been resolved and she has had to live with it
continuously. She says the delay in contacting UKI about this was because she
was ill with a serious health condition, and that the Covid-19 pandemic would
have prevented anyone from entering the property as she is in the extremely
vulnerable category.She wants UKI to pay her compensation for the time taken for the repairs and the
poor quality.
She agrees with me that the manhole cover should be replaced.
UKI responded to say that Company U had confirmed they did not replace the manhole 
cover, but didnt have any further comments. It provided this service with a copy of its 
previous final responses sent to Ms H following complaints made by her.
I issued a second provisional decision on 26 October 2022. Heres what I said:
Ms H says that Company U didnt carry out a full drain trace. As the parties disagree on this,
I cant be certain either way, but I dont think Ms H has shown that its more likely than not
that a drain trace didnt take place. And so I remain satisfied that there isnt enough
information for me to say that Company U failed to carry out an appropriate inspection in
2017.
Company U say they no longer have the CCTV footage from August 2017. Given the time
thats passed, I dont find that surprising. Although Ms H says she would have expected this 
to be kept for ten years, theres no requirement that Im aware of for Company U to do so.
Ms H says the foul smell has never resolved, and shes had to live with it continuously. 
Whilst I appreciate her comments about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, I note that
Ms H told UKI in November 2018 that shed arrange for a contractor to look into the matter.
The first national lockdown didnt take place until March 2020, and so Ms H did have 16
months in which to arrange investigations if she continued to be impacted by this.
Though in any event, I remain of the opinion there isnt enough evidence for me to say that
the damage identified in 2021 was present in 2017, for the same reasons as set out in my
first provisional decision. I therefore dont intend to require UKI to take further action, apart
from replacing the manhole cover.
In my first provisional decision, I noted that Ms H had complained about a number of issues
that hadnt been addressed in UKIs final response of December 2021. I therefore asked UKI
to provide me with its earlier final responses in order to see whether Ms Hs concerns had
previously been addressed.
Ive looked again at Ms Hs initial complaint to UKI. She complained about the standard of
work previously carried out, as she didnt think this had been done to a satisfactory standard
due to foul smells still coming from the drains.
After UKI had issued its final response in December 2021, Ms H responded to say why she
disagreed with UKIs findings on the matter. In that correspondence Ms H raised a few other
points, namely:
-She said UKIs contractor failed to replace the damp proof course when 
excavating the floor in the utility room, and the downstairs WC.
-The replacement cabinets within the utility rom were warped and damp due to the
-above issue, and the plaster edge beading had rusted.
-She was unhappy with the repairs which she thinks took too long, and that she 
was left without ground floor toilet facilities for months.
-UKIs contractor damaged the manhole cover and replaced it with an unsuitable 
one.
-She was denied alternative accommodation.
Ms H said that she was going to take her complaint to this service if she didnt receive aresponse within 14 days. I see Ms H then contacted UKI again and raised specific concerns
about the drains which she wanted addressed, and also the manhole cover. She also asked
why UKI hadnt responded to her points about the damp floor, damaged cabinets and rusted
plaster.
UKI responded to address each of Ms Hs points (including the manhole cover), and said the
damage for the damp floor, damaged cabinets and rusted plaster could be considered under
a new claim.
Ill comment on each of Ms Hs concerns in turn.
Ms H says UKI failed to replace the damp proof course in the utility room and downstairs WC
I havent seen any evidence of this, and so I dont require UKI to take action here. I dont
think its unreasonable for UKI to say that Ms H should raise a new claim, and this issue can
then be considered. If its found that there is no damp proof course, and that UKI should
have installed one previously, then Id expect UKI to consider putting this right.
The replacement cabinets are warped and damp, and the plaster edge beading has rusted
Again, I havent seen any evidence that this has happened because of UKIs previous
repairs. UKI has confirmed it will consider this under a new claim which I think is reasonable.
Ms H was unhappy with the repairs which she thinks took too long, and she was left without
ground floor toilet facilities for months
I see that UKI issued final responses in 2017 and 2018 regarding the repairs, and paid total
compensation of £900 to Ms H. These letters gave Ms H six months in which to bring her
concerns to this service if she remained unhappy. As Ms H didnt do so, this service cannot
consider Ms Hs same concerns about the repairs as her complaint falls outside our time
limits.
If Ms H didnt specifically complain to UKI about the length of time the repairs took when she
complained in 2017 and 2018, then she would need to do so before this service can
consider the matter. Although Ms H mentioned this in her response to UKIs final response of
December 2021, it wasnt clear that she was making a new complaint about this.
UKIs contractor damaged the manhole cover
Ive addressed this in my first provisional decision. Although UKI makes the point that
Company U stated it didnt replace the manhole cover, Ive already explained why Im
satisfied that, on balance, they did.
Ms H says she was denied alternative accommodation
Again, this was addressed in UKIs final response of 2018. As Ms H didnt bring a complaint
about this matter to this service within six months of the date of that final response, that
means we cannot consider this as it falls outside our time limits.
I again both parties for any further comments they wanted to make. 
UKI responded to say it accepted my second provisional decision.
Ms H responded with the following points:She maintains that a full drain trace didnt take place, and she is a witness to this 
fact.
Even if Company U no longer have the CCTV footage (from August 207), she thinks 
details of this should have been documented in their written report. Ms H maintains 
that the other drain lines were not checked and found to be clear, and says that is the 
reason she has a cracked toilet drain and associated damp problems over five years 
later. 
She says that she was given compensation by UKI in 2017 due to the problems that 
had happened up to that date. But she says the compensation she is now requesting 
is for the unacceptable length of time the repairs took to complete, and the living 
conditions she had to endure. 
Ms H says she complained to UKI and received a response in July 2022, though UKI 
denied her request for compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already addressed Ms Hs point regarding a full drain trace in my second provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat that here. 
Ms H thinks that after Company U carried out an inspection in August 2017, they ought to 
have detailed in their report which drain lines were inspected. 
Its not for me to say what information Company U should have included in their reports. 
Company U says if there were concerns about any other lines, these would have been 
detailed in their report. As Company U no longer has the CCTV footage, I cant be sure 
which drain lines were inspected. 
Its therefore still the case that there isnt enough information for me to conclude that 
Company U failed to carry out an appropriate inspection in 2017. 
Ms H says the compensation she previously received from UKI related to errors made by its 
contractor in 2017, and that her new complaint is about the length of time it took for the 
repairs to be done between 2017 and 2019. 
As far as I can see, this hasnt been looked into or addressed by UKI. 
Ive read UKI email to Ms H in July 2022. This isnt a final response that is responding to a 
new complaint made by her - it merely states that her claim was fully reviewed and, based 
on its investigations, it didnt think compensation was warranted. I would assume this email 
related to Ms Hs complaint that Ive considered here regarding the standard of work 
previously carried out by Company U. 
Ms H would therefore need to raise her concerns about the length of time it took UKIs 
contractors to do the repairs between 2017 and 2019 with UKI in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
replace the manhole cover.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman