DRN-4384693
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs S booked a holiday abroad in December 2020. They were due to travel in 
September 2021. In May 2021, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker.
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mr and Mrs S close relative was diagnosed with lung 
cancer and given a terminal prognosis. As the balance of the trip was nearly due, Mr and 
Mrs S told the business which had sold them the policy about their relatives diagnosis. They 
were ultimately told that they could look into making a cancellation claim for the costs that 
applied at that point. As Mr and Mrs S relative had been given a prognosis of around a year, 
Mr and Mrs S decided to pay the balance of their trip.
Due to ongoing restrictions due to Covid-19, Mr and Mrs S decided to reschedule their trip 
for March 2022. They amended their policy dates accordingly. They flew abroad as planned. 
However, sadly, three days into their holiday, their close relative passed away, suffering from 
pneumonia. So they cut short their trip, returned to the UK and made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with the curtailment of the trip.
Ultimately, Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs S claim. Thats because it said that Mr and 
Mrs S relative had had a pre-existing condition when the insurance was taken out. Pre-
existing conditions were specifically excluded from cover. And it also said that the policy 
terms specifically excluded claims arising from a close relatives terminal prognosis  either 
at the time of policy purchase or after travel had commenced. Therefore, Great Lakes 
concluded that Mr and Mrs S claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Great Lakes decision. They thought the terminal 
prognosis exclusion clause Great Lakes had relied upon was unusual. They didnt think the 
pre-existing condition clause applied to close relatives. And they considered that as their 
relatives cause of death had been pneumonia, it wasnt excluded by the policy terms in any 
event. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mr 
and Mrs S relative had been given a terminal prognosis in June 2021  around nine months 
before they departed on their holiday. So she thought it had been fair for Great Lakes to 
conclude that the claim wasnt covered.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it had been unfair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs S 
claim. I said:
First, Id like to offer Mr and Mrs S my sincere condolences for the loss of their relative. I 
dont doubt what an upsetting and difficult time this has been for them. Id also like to 
reassure them that whilst Ive summarised the background to their complaint and their 
detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. Within this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
I must also make the parameters of this decision clear. Great Lakes was responsible for 
drafting the policy terms and for assessing Mr and Mrs S claim. But it wasnt responsible for 
selling the policy or for sending Mr and Mrs S the policy documents. That was the 
responsibility of the business which sold the policy to them. Ive considered a complaint 
about the sale and administration of the policy by the policy seller separately.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Great Lakes 
treated Mr and Mrs S fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr and Mrs S and Great Lakes. Its common ground that Mr and Mrs S had to 
curtail their holiday after they learned that their close relative had passed away. The policy 
covers the cutting short of a holiday due to the sudden illness or the death of a close relative.
However, the policy also sets out important restrictions on the cover provided by the 
contract. Page 3 sets out a Health Declaration. This includes the following:
Your policy contains restrictions, conditions and exclusions that relate to your health and to 
the health of others on whom your trip might depend.
Page 42 includes General Exclusions which apply to the whole policy. This says that Great 
Lakes wont cover any claim arising as a result of:
You, a close relative, a travelling companion, or any person with whom you had arranged to 
stay with:
Are receiving, or are waiting for hospital investigation or any treatment for any undiagnosed 
condition, or set of symptoms at the time of purchasing your policy and/or at the time of 
commencing travel.
Ive also considered the Insurance Product Information Document, which sets out an-at-a- 
glance summary of the insurance cover. On page one, under a section headed what is not 
insured, the document says:
The policy includes restrictions regarding the health of close relatives and friends upon 
whom your trip may depend, even if they are not being insured by this policy.
Although Great Lakes didnt specifically raised the exclusions which Ive mentioned above 
when it ultimately declined the claim, Ive considered the whole substance of Mr and Mrs S 
complaint as my inquisitorial remit entitles me to do.
In my view, the policy documentation as a whole makes it sufficiently clear that Great Lakes 
wont cover claims which arise due to conditions of non-travelling relatives which were under 
investigation at the time the policy was taken out. Nor do I think this clause is unusual. Most, 
if not all, travel insurance policies exclude claims arising directly or indirectly from the 
medical conditions of non-travelling relatives.In this case, Ive looked very carefully at the available medical and other evidence. Mr and 
Mrs S have provided us with a copy of their relatives death certificate. This certificate states 
that the cause of their relatives death was 1(a) pneumonia and 2) lung cancer. This means 
that a medical professional has certified that the direct cause of death was pneumonia, 
whilst lung cancer was a contributory factor. As such, I think it was reasonable for Great 
Lakes to conclude lung cancer was a factor in the death of Mr and Mrs S close relative.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs S originally booked their trip in December 2020. Ive carefully 
considered a letter from Mr and Mrs S relatives GP which explains the timeline of events. It 
appears that Mr and Mrs S relative was admitted to hospital on 15 April 2021, suffering from 
a number of symptoms. They underwent a series of tests, including a CT scan, which found 
low attenuation in part of the brain and a CT scan of the torso, which showed enlarged 
lymph nodes. Mr and Mrs S relative was discharged 12 days later, and a PET scan and fine 
needle aspiration were arranged. They were reviewed in a clinic on 12 May 2021 and sadly, 
following diagnostic testing, terminal lung cancer was diagnosed on 3 June 2021.
Mr and Mrs S took out their policy on 12 May 2021 (I appreciate they say they initially took 
out a policy a few days earlier, which they cancelled, because they were able to arrange this 
particular policy more cheaply). In either case though, at the time Mr and Mrs S arranged the 
policy, their relative had been an inpatient in hospital for over 12 days and was awaiting tests 
to investigate a potentially serious condition. So I think it would be reasonable to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs S relative was undergoing and waiting for hospital investigations into an 
undiagnosed condition when the policy was taken out. This means their claim would fall 
within the scope of the exclusion clause.
By Mr and Mrs S account, they learned of their relatives terminal prognosis before the 
balance of the holiday was due. They say they contacted the business which had sold them 
the policy, which told them that they may be able to make a cancellation claim on the policy. 
However, as theyd thought their relative would have at least a year to live; theyd decided 
not to cancel the trip and to pay the full, outstanding holiday balance. The travel agent 
confirmed that if the holiday had been cancelled at that point, the cancellation costs would 
have been substantially less. This would have mitigated both Mr and Mrs S and Great 
Lakes potential losses. While I can understand why Mr and Mrs S may not have felt a claim 
was likely at the time they paid for their holiday, I think its likely that they were aware of the 
possibility that their relatives condition could worsen and that theyd need to make a claim. 
And indeed, Mr and Mrs S went on to amend their policy dates, aware that their relative had 
received a terminal prognosis. So, in any event, I dont think I could fairly find that the 
possibility that they may need to make a curtailment claim was entirely unforeseeable, even 
if they didnt think it was likely.
Overall, I currently think the medical evidence shows, on balance, that Mr and Mrs S claim 
arose as a result of a condition their relative was undergoing investigation for at the point the 
policy was taken out. And their policy excludes cover for claims arising from this. So despite 
my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs S position, I dont currently think it was unfair for 
Great Lakes to turn down this claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could direct Great Lakes to accept and pay the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs S said they were extremely disappointed by my provisional findings, but that as 
they had no new evidence, they wouldnt be taking the matter any further. They said they still 
felt that travel insurance policies were loaded in a travel insurers favour and that they should be simplified, so that consumers have a clearer picture about what theyre insured for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any substantive new evidence, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings.
I do appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs S are by my decision and I know theyve been 
through a difficult and upsetting time. But overall, I remain satisfied that the policy 
documentation as a whole made it sufficiently clear that Great Lakes wont cover claims 
arising from any pre-existing conditions of non-travelling relatives which were under 
investigation at the time the policy was taken out. And so, for the reasons Ive set out above, 
I still dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to turn down this claim.
Overall, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman