DRN-4502658
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Admiral Financial Services Limited (trading as Admiral 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable as hed recently taken another 
loan and already had debts with other creditors.
Background
Admiral Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £5,000.00 in October 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 29% and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,048.16, which included interest fees and charges of £3,048.16, was due to be repaid in 
48 monthly instalments of £167.67.  
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Admiral Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Admiral Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain in a bit more detail.
Admiral Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Admiral Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Admiral Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £5,000.00 in October 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £167.67. 
Admiral Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and a bank statement that Mr M provided. And 
all of this information showed Mr M could afford to make the repayments he was committing 
to. On the other hand, Mr M has said the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Admiral Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Admiral Loans manually underwrote Mr Ms loan and it 
obtained quite a bit of information before deciding to lend to Mr M. So it wasnt simply a case 
of Admiral Loans relying on an overoptimistic declaration of disposable income. 
Admiral Loans has provided a record of the results of the credit searches it carried out. 
These credit searches appear to show that Mr M did have some existing debts. However,    
Mr Ms debt total at the time of the applications wasnt unreasonable in comparison to his 
income and his commitments were relatively well maintained. Furthermore, while the credit 
checks didnt include the loan Mr M had recently taken, with another lender, as that lender 
hadnt started reporting on it yet, this loan was showing on Mr Ms bank statement. 
It is my understanding that payments for Mr Ms other loan were not only factored in Admiral 
Loans assessment of Mr Ms income and expenditure, but Admiral Loans also questioned 
Mr M on why he required a second loan in these circumstances. Admiral Loans has provided 
a recording of the telephone call in question. And having listened to this telephone call, its 
clear that Mr M was questioned robustly on this matter. In response to this questioning, Mr M 
said that the combined funds from both loans would be used to purchase a car and renovate 
a garden. 
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Admiral Loans obtained. For example, Mr M 
refers to having a lower income and higher expenditure because of his other loan. Im also 
sorry to hear that Mr M has been unwell and is on medication. But I can confirm that Admiral 
Loans did use a lower income for Mr M (based on what the bank statement showed) and its 
expenditure assessment included all of Mr Ms expenditure  including the loan that didnt 
show up in the credit searches. 
Equally, the key thing here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint 
in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the amount advanced, the 
monthly payments the lack of obvious inconsistencies, the results of its questioning and what 
the bank statements showed, Im satisfied that Admiral Loans was reasonably entitled to 
lend to Mr M based on all this information. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Admiral Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Admiral Loans treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind Admiral Loans of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event Mr M is having difficulty making 
payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman