DRN-3341934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc asked them to pay an additional 
amount of approx. £7,300 after they had repaid their mortgage. To settle the complaint they 
want Barclays to pay them compensation.
What happened
I will provide only a brief summary of what has led up to this complaint. Our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include in this decision any information that might result in 
Mr and Mrs F being identified. 
In addition, whats happened isnt really in dispute and is well documented in 
correspondence between Mr and Mrs F, their conveyancer, Barclays and in the initial view 
on the complaint issued by our investigator. For these reasons, I will keep my summary fairly 
short.
Mr and Mrs F had a mortgage with Barclays which was on a product that was subject to an 
early repayment charge (ERC) if they repaid it within the fixed rate period. Mr and Mrs F 
decided to move house and port (transfer) the interest rate product onto the mortgage on 
their new property. As a result, the ERC would be waived.
Completion of the sale and purchase was fixed for 17 May 2021. The conveyancers acting 
for Mr and Mrs F asked Barclays for a redemption statement. This showed that the amount 
required to repay the mortgage on 17 May 2021 was as follows:
Outstanding Mortgage Account Balance £ 243,709.10
ERC £     7,311.27
Mortgage exit fee £          80.00
___________
Total: £ 251,100.37
Because the ERC was being waived, the amount Barclays should have received at 
completion was £243,789.10 (the outstanding account balance plus the £80 fee).
However, the conveyancers made an error; instead of deducting the ERC from the total 
amount due of £251,100,37, they deducted it from the outstanding account balance. 
As a result, on completion Barclays was sent only £236,397.83, made up as follows:
Outstanding Mortgage Account Balance £ 243,709.10
Plus mortgage exit fee  £         80.00
___________
£ 243,789.10
Less ERC £      7,311.27
___________
Amount sent to Barclays: £  236,397.83
The sale and purchase completed, but Barclays wasnt able to close the old mortgage 
account because there was a shortfall of £7,311.27, due to the solicitors having sent the 
incorrect amount.
Because there was still an outstanding account balance, Barclays chased Mr and Mrs F for 
the payment. However, Mr and Mrs F were given incorrect information by the bank and were 
told several times that they didnt need to pay the £7,311.27, as the ERC had been waived. 
Despite this, Barclays still claimed there was an outstanding amount of over £7,300 due. 
Over a period of several months, Mr and Mrs F queried this.
By October 2021 Mr and Mrs F acknowledged that the solicitors had made an error, but they 
would have difficulty making the outstanding payment in a lump sum. 
Mr and Mrs F were very unhappy about what had happened and about the way Barclays had 
dealt with this.  The bank had written to their old address and, although they had arranged 
with Royal Mail for their post to be forwarded, this didnt happen. The bank looked at what 
had happened. In its final response letter, the bank explained that the ERC had been 
deducted from the outstanding account balance rather than the total amount due, and that is 
how the shortfall arose. 
Barclays did, however, acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F had been given incorrect information 
by the bank about the shortfall being waived. Barclays has clarified that this is because the 
advisor was confused about the ERC (which Mr and Mrs F didnt need to pay, as theyd 
ported their mortgage product) and the shortfall (which they did need to pay, as their 
conveyancer hadnt sent Barclays enough money to pay off the mortgage). 
Barclays said that, as the old mortgage account hadnt been closed, correspondence about 
this had been sent to the address for that account, which was the property Mr and Mrs F had 
sold. Unfortunately, due to issues with Royal Mail, Mr and Mrs F hadnt received those 
letters.
Barclays offered compensation of £200 for the incorrect information given to Mr and Mrs F 
and for the confusion and upset this had caused. The bank also explained that the shortfall 
was still outstanding, and that interest was continuing to accrue on this whilst it remained 
unpaid. 
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs F complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. He was satisfied that responsibility 
for the existence of the shortfall lay with the conveyancer who had sent Barclays less than 
the amount required to redeem the mortgage. 
However, he was satisfied that Barclays communication had been poor and that Mr and Mrs 
F had been given conflicting information about how much was owed. As a result, he thought 
Barclays should waive any interest accrued on the outstanding debt between the date of the 
final response (11 October 2021) and the date of his letter (16 December 2021). The 
investigator also thought Barclays should increase its offer of compensation to £400.Barclays agreed to this, but Mr and Mrs F did not. They dont understand how this was 
allowed to happen in the first place, and they dont think Barclays has provided an adequate 
explanation as to how the sale of the property could have completed when the mortgage 
hadnt been paid off. They are also unhappy at being charged any interest on the shortfall.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see from the documents on file that Mr and Mrs F now understand how the shortfall debt 
arose  which was because their conveyancer didnt send enough money to Barclays to pay 
off their old mortgage on completion of their sale and purchase. Mr and Mrs F have queried 
how completion could have taken place when there was still a mortgage debt outstanding. 
However, completion of the sale and redemption of the mortgage are dealt with as separate 
transactions. The removal of the legal charge at the Land Registry only happens when the 
lender is satisfied that the mortgage debt is repaid. But that is separate from completion of 
the actual sale/purchase of the property.
I think the redemption statement was quite clear about how much was due to Barclays, so 
its difficult to see why the conveyancer deducted the ERC from the outstanding mortgage 
balance rather than the total amount due to the bank. Thats something Mr and Mrs F will 
need to ask their conveyancer about. However, Im satisfied that Barclays isnt responsible 
for the shortfall debt arising and that this came about as a result of an error on the part of 
Mr and Mrs Fs conveyancer.
It follows, therefore, that Im also satisfied that the shortfall debt is properly owed to Barclays, 
and that the bank is allowed to charge interest on this. 
I can see there were some customer service failings when Mr and Mrs F were assured that 
the debt was waived. This was as a result of the advisor confusing the shortfall debt with the 
ERC. As they were for the same amount, I can see how this mistake arose, but it led to 
Mr and Mrs F being given the wrong information on several occasions.
As the address for the old mortgage account was the property Mr and Mrs F had just sold, 
the banks system wouldnt have updated this to their new address. As a result, Barclays 
wrote to their old address. Its unfortunate that Royal Mail didnt redirect the correspondence 
on to Mr and Mrs F as it should have done. This isnt Barclays fault, however.
I am glad to see that Barclays has agreed that interest should be waived for the period 
11 October 2021 to 16 December 2021 inclusive. I think this is fair. As Barclays wasnt 
responsible for the shortfall debt arising, I dont think it is fair or reasonable for any additional 
interest to be waived. I must emphasise that I dont think Mr and Mrs F are at fault here, so I 
can understand they think its unfair for the bank to charge them interest. But I think they will 
need to take this up with their conveyancer, as it was that party which sent the bank less 
than was required to repay the mortgage, which resulted in the existence of the shortfall debt 
and, as a direct consequence, the additional interest Mr and Mrs F are now required to pay.
I agree with the investigator that the £200 originally offered by Barclays wasnt sufficient for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs F. I think £400 compensation is fair, given that it 
was several months before Mr and Mrs F were given a clear explanation of what had 
happened and were caused a lot of upset and confusion.Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to remove interest on the shortfall 
debt for the period 11 October 2021 to 16 December 2021 inclusive. I also direct Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs F compensation of £400 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank Plc to settle the 
complaint as detailed above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman