DRN-2078741
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc treated her unfairly when the term of her 
interest only mortgage expired.
What happened
The term of Mrs Cs interest only residential mortgage expired in December 2017 with an 
unpaid balance. She asked Bank of Ireland to extend the term. Bank of Ireland declined. It 
said it wouldnt consider an extension as Mrs C had let out the property without consent. 
Mrs C made proposals to extend the mortgage term which Bank of Ireland didnt accept. It 
wrote to Mrs C in January 2019 saying it would start recovery action.
Mrs C told Bank of Ireland she was unable to sell the property due to a problem with 
Japanese knotweed. She said she was in the process of re-mortgaging. She says it was 
unfair that Bank of Ireland didnt extend the mortgage term to give her time to sort out the 
problem. Shed like to convert the mortgage to buy-to-let.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland had shown reasonable forbearance. As Mrs Cs options 
were limited it was reasonable for Bank of Ireland to start legal action. She said Bank of 
Ireland should allow Mrs C reasonable time to sell the property, if she provides evidence of 
the specialist report and the steps being taken to get rid of the Japanese Knotweed, and 
evidence she was making reasonable efforts to sell the property. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She says shes re-marketing the property with a different agent and 
looking for a better re-mortgage deal. She says she in the process of moving, having sold 
the house she lived in, and has to deal with problems with her other properties. Shed like a 
term extension to allow her to obtain certification that the Japanese knotweed has been 
treated, which can take five years. And she says property values in the area have fallen.
Bank of Ireland said Mrs C had been aware of the Japanese Knotweed for some years and 
had time to sort it out. And Mrs C was letting the property without consent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should make it clear that my role is to settle this dispute fairly and impartially. Its not 
my role to negotiate with Bank of Ireland on behalf of Mrs C for her preferred outcome.
The term of Mrs Cs mortgage expired in December 2017, with an unpaid balance of about 
£212,000. 
I need to be fair to both parties here, and Bank of Ireland has a right to expect its money to 
be repaid when the mortgage term expires. Mrs C agreed to do this when she took out the 
mortgage. 
Mrs C made proposals to Bank of Ireland. She offered to repay up to £170,000, either in final 
settlement or with a term extension for the £40,000 unpaid balance. She suggested the sale 
of properties owned by her husband and business partner as a repayment strategy. In mid-
2019 she asked Bank of Ireland to hold action as shed put the property on the market for 
sale. In early 2020 she asked Bank of Ireland for a five-year term extension while Japanese 
knotweed is treated. Mrs C also asked to switch to a buy to let mortgage.
I dont think Bank of Ireland was unfair when it responded to Mrs Cs proposals. It didnt have 
to accept a part repayment of the mortgage while Mrs C kept the property  which she lets 
out. Mrs Cs proposed repayment strategy (the sale of properties Mrs C didnt own) wasnt 
acceptable to Bank of Ireland, and I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Mrs Cs request for a buy-to-let mortgage didnt meet Bank of Irelands basic criteria. Bank of 
Ireland says it was unable to contact Mrs C to complete the application, and she didnt 
provide the information and supporting documents it needed to progress her request. 
Mrs C didnt provide evidence to Bank of Ireland that the property was being marketed for 
sale. Bank of Ireland asked Mrs C to provide a report by an independent specialist so it 
could understand the effect of the Japanese knotweed on the property. Mrs C didnt provide 
this before the complaint came to us, so Bank of Ireland couldnt assess how this affected 
the property and Mrs Cs ability to sell or re-mortgage the property.
Japanese knotweed can be a serious problem when trying to sell or raise a mortgage on a 
property. I can see that in some circumstances it would fair, or even necessary, to delay the 
sale of a property until the problem has been dealt with. I dont think thats the case here.
Mrs Cs property is part of a small group of properties and she provided correspondence 
relating to a survey and treatment for Japanese knotweed in and near the properties. 
Treatment started in late 2016. Mrs Cs broker told Bank of Ireland she didnt contribute to 
the cost of this. Mrs C told Bank of Ireland in March 2019 shed arrange a five-year treatment 
plan, but didnt provide evidence of this to Bank of Ireland. 
Mrs C provided a specialist report dated late June 2020. This said while there was no 
Japanese knotweed on Mrs Cs property there was some on neighbouring property which 
appeared to have been treated. It gave options and costs for treatment  but as the 
knotweed is on land belonging to neighbours, theyd need to agree to this. 
Based on the available evidence, there isnt knotweed on Mrs Cs property and the knotweed 
on neighbouring properties is being treated. Its not clear if the owners of neighbouring 
properties would consent to Mrs C also appointing a contractor to treat the knotweed on their 
properties. Its not clear if Mrs C will have the benefit of any certification relating to the 
treatment, if she didnt contribute to the cost of it.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Bank of Ireland to give 
Mrs C a five-year term extension for a treatment programme that might not be required and 
for which she might not get consent from her neighbours. 
What happens now?
From what Mrs C has said she has other properties. She might have options she can 
explore to repay the mortgage without selling the property. 
Mrs C hasnt provided evidence about her efforts to sell her property or how this has been 
affected by the Japanese knotweed on neighbouring properties. Mrs Cs property was valued in mid-2019 on behalf of another lender at £225,000. This would be enough to repay 
the mortgage balance.
Mrs C doesnt live in the property  she lets it out on a commercial basis. I appreciate shed 
prefer to keep the property and continue to let it out, but in fairness I must also take into 
account that she owes the money to Bank of Ireland. Its nearly three years since the term 
expired.
Mrs C says shes marketing the property for sale and has been looking into re-mortgaging. 
She should keep Bank of Ireland informed about the steps shes taking to repay the debt and 
provide the evidence it asks for to support what she says. Bank of Ireland has said it would 
consider a grace period if it has this evidence. Hopefully Mrs C will be able to repay the 
mortgage. But if shes unable to do so, Bank of Ireland can take possession as a last resort. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) issued 
guidance for lenders. The regulator recently proposed new guidance that no-one should 
have their home repossessed without their agreement until after 31 January 2021. There are 
also measures in place to protect tenants, including longer notice periods to end tenancies. 
Id expect Bank of Ireland to take this and any further guidance into account when dealing 
with Mrs C; Id also expect Mrs C to provide evidence to Bank of Ireland of the steps shes 
taking if she needs to end the tenancy before selling the property.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman