DRN-1870145
The complaint
S is a church and a registered charity. It complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly 
refused to offer it a community account with free banking. S also complains that the bank 
has handled the matter badly, causing inconvenience and losses.
What happened
In August 2018, S applied to Barclays for a community account with free banking, believing 
the charity met the advertised criteria. Barclays offered to open an account but said S wasn't 
eligible for free banking. There was some confusion when S asked why. Barclays gave 
several different explanations. 
Opening an account was important to S because it needed a bank account for tax reasons. 
Without an account, S had to pay more in National Insurance contributions than it needed to. 
S complained to the bank. Barclays agreed that its communications had been poor and 
offered £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Unhappy with the banks 
response, S referred its complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought £400 compensation was a fair offer in all the circumstances. He 
gave these reasons, in summary:
Barclays guidelines governing eligibility for free banking say that an eligible applicant 
must have no more than three officials, irrespective of how many would be 
authorised to sign on the account. S has more than three officials and therefore it 
isn't eligible.
The bank seems to have told S about its ineligibility resulting from too many officials, 
but also gave unclear explanations and contradictory advice. Barclays has 
acknowledged that its communications were poor and has offered compensation.
The investigator didn't agree that the banks actions caused S to miss out on tax 
allowances. Barclays was always willing to give S a bank account  it was only the 
charges that were in dispute. There were also other banking alternatives, and indeed 
S now has an account elsewhere.
S did suffer inconvenience, caused by the banks poor communication and the 
cancellation of a meeting at short notice. In the investigators view, £400 was 
adequate compensation for all that.
 
S didn't agree with the investigators conclusions. Its representative said Barclays may not 
have followed its own guidance. Hed made further calls to the enquiry line for the 
community account, and the results suggest the investigators view of the three-officer 
criterion was merely an interpretation by a minority of managers at the bank. He also said 
that Ss trustees had considered setting up a normal business account as a temporary 
measure, and had explored options with another bank, but practical considerations led them 
to wait for the complaint to be settled with Barclays. He said the delays in dealing with the 
complaint therefore did have financial implications for S.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Ive looked carefully at Barclays internal guidelines on eligibility for a community account 
with free banking. Im satisfied the investigator was correct in saying the guidelines state the 
maximum number of officials allowed is three, irrespective of how many would be authorised 
on the account. I dont think Barclays was obliged to offer free banking to S, and the banks 
decision was in my view in line with its own guidelines on eligibility.
I understand the reasoning behind Ss trustees decisions not to set up a normal business 
account with Barclays and to postpone discussions with another bank. But they were 
choices made by the trustees after weighing up the options. Barclays had offered S a bank 
account, and other accounts were available elsewhere, so I cant fairly and reasonably say 
Barclays is responsible for S having no account and being unable to claim tax allowances.
Its common ground that the bank didn't communicate things well and caused some 
confusion. Its customer service fell below a reasonable standard and, as a result, S and its 
officers suffered inconvenience. Barclays has offered to pay £400 compensation, which in 
my view is a fair and reasonable offer. 
My final decision
The bank has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £400 compensation to S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman