DRN-4037989
The complaint
D, a limited company complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
handled its business loan account. 
Mr H, a director of D, brings this complaint on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D had a business loan with RBS that it wanted to settle in October 2022. Mr H says RBS 
ignored its requests for a settlement figure so D ended up overpaying the loan.
D asked RBS to refund the overpayment but this took longer than expected and RBS made 
the payment by cheque rather than CHAPS.
Before this service became involved, RBS apologised to D and offered £200 compensation. 
RBS said it had no record of Mr H asking for a redemption figure in October 2022. It agreed 
that it shouldve returned the excess funds by CHAPS not cheque.  
The investigator thought that RBS had done and offered enough to put things right. Mr H 
disagrees. He says that RBS offered £200 in mid-November 2022 but that after this time, he 
spent many hours trying to get the money back. Mr H says hes still waiting for RBS to 
remove two charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ds complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I appreciate Mr H says that he asked for a redemption figure in late October 2022 but RBS 
doesnt have a record of this. So, I dont find that RBS was to blame for the fact that D 
decided to overpay the loan. Or that it was wrong for RBS to take the October loan payment.
As I dont have enough evidence to persuade me that D asked for a redemption figure 
before it complained in mid-November 2022, Im not asking RBS to pay interest on the 
surplus funds. Once RBS became aware that D wanted to close the loan account, it 
processed the request and sent a cheque for the credit balance around 9 December 2022. I 
dont find that RBS took an unreasonable amount of time to carry out the account closure 
process. Or that it was unreasonable for RBS to apply interest on the loan account due at 
the time of closure. 
I agree that once Mr H returned the completed CHAPS form around 17 November, RBS 
shouldnt have then paid the balance to D by cheque. This led to an unnecessary delay in D 
receiving the money. However, on balance, I consider RBS offer to pay D £200 adequately 
reflects the impact this delay had on D together with any difficulties it faced trying to contact 
Ds relationship manager.
Mr H says the delay returning the overpayment almost caused him problems with HMRC. Im 
very glad that the problems didnt happen in the end. So, I dont think RBS should have to 
pay additional compensation for something that didnt happen.
Finally, Mr H says hes waiting for RBS to remove two charges. As far as Im aware, RBS 
released the security it held at the end of December 2022. If Mr H thinks this still hasnt 
happened, he would have to raise a new complaint so that RBS could investigate.     
My final decision
I think RBS has already made an offer which I consider fair. So, my final decision is that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman