DRN-4053535
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) closed his account without 
notice after there was an incident in branch.
Mr B thinks Nationwide failed to adequately safeguard him. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr B was in a branch of Nationwide when he told staff that hed been 
assaulted by a customer and asked for the police to be called. Mr B says that another 
member of the public started to act aggressively towards him. After the situation became 
inflamed, the police arrived and detained Mr B for abusive, threatening behaviour and 
assault. 
The charges were later dropped and Mr B was released from prison. Hes unhappy that 
Nationwide closed his account. Mr B says he suffers with mental health problems and that 
Nationwide didnt do enough to protect him. Mr B says that Nationwide couldve explained to 
the police that he was the victim not the aggressor. Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide didnt 
have CCTV footage of the incident. 
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Bs complaint. He explained that 
Nationwide can end its agreement to provide a customer with a bank account. And that it 
can do so immediately in exceptional circumstances. As Mr B was arrested after the incident 
in branch, the investigator thought Nationwide acted in line with its terms and conditions 
when it closed his account without notice. 
Mr B is very unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says the person who gave a 
statement to the police has now given a different story of what happened in branch. Mr B 
says his civil claim for unlawful arrest by the police is underway.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr Bs complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. 
Although Mr B disputes exactly what took place in branch, it seems that the situation 
became heated. I accept that at the start of the incident, it was Mr B who felt hed been 
assaulted by the unwanted touch from a customer. And that after this, another member of 
the public acted aggressively toward Mr B. However, the branch managers statement to the 
police says that Mr B was threatening staff and customers. The branch manager says that 
Mr Bs body language was aggressive and that he was acting in an intimidating way. After 
police arrived in branch, the disturbance continued with the branch manager saying that     
Mr B became aggressive towards the police before being removed from the branch. Mr B 
was then detained in prison for a few weeks before a decision was made to drop the charges 
against him. 
Ive listened to the lengthy call that took place between Mr B and the investigator. I 
appreciate Mr Bs recollection of the events in branch differs to that of the branch manager  
both in the statement the branch manager gave to the police at the time and the account the 
branch manager recently gave to this service. Mr B says he was the victim not the suspect, 
but in cases where the evidence is contradictory, I must make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
The branch manager gave a witness statement to the police the day after Mr B was arrested. 
The branch manager agreed that what he said was true and he wouldve known that he 
might be called to give evidence at trial. So, I wouldve reasonably expected the branch 
manager to recall events to the best of his recollection. 
The terms of Mr Bs account with Nationwide allow it to immediately close an account in 
exceptional circumstances which include where the customer has been threatening or 
abusive towards staff. The evidence the branch manager gave to the police at the time 
suggests to me that it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to decide to immediately close    
Mr Bs account. I understand that Mr B is currently involved in legal action for unlawful arrest. 
But this doesnt mean I must now find that Nationwides decision to close Mr Bs account in 
2019 was unreasonable. 
I understand Mr Bs concerns about the lack of CCTV footage of what happened in branch. 
He thinks the lack of corroborating evidence on the part of Nationwide shows that the branch 
manager lied. But I dont see why Nationwide wouldve provided this evidence at the time 
unless asked to by the police. And as Mr B has brought his complaint almost four years after 
the event complained about, I wouldnt reasonably expect Nationwide to have either retained 
the footage or to now find corroborating evidence from other customers. 
I accept that the branch managers recent version of events differs slightly to the one he 
gave in 2019. Almost four years has passed since the events took place so it seems natural 
for there to be some inconsistencies in the branch managers recollection. I also note that 
the branch manager addressed some points he didnt touch on in his earlier statement. 
However, I think the important statement is the one the branch manager gave in 2019. It was 
this recollection of events that led Nationwide to take the decision to close Mr Bs account. 
As Ive said above, based on the events as recalled by Nationwide in 2019, I still dont think 
it was unreasonable for Nationwide to take the decision that it did. 
I understand Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide didnt do more to make him safe. He wanted 
to be moved away from trouble rather than be kept near everything that was going on. 
Nationwide says it took Mr B to a side room with glass walls and gave him a glass of water 
The investigator thought that this was treating Mr B reasonably. Mr B thinks were trying to 
discredit him by not considering how he felt and says he wasnt taken into a concealed room. 
But again, based on the evidence I have, I consider it more likely than not that Nationwide 
took reasonable steps to try and help Mr B in what I understand was a difficult situation for 
him. 
I dont want to downplay the impact the whole situation has had on Mr Bs mental health and 
financial wellbeing. But overall, Im not persuaded that Nationwide acted unreasonably. It 
follows that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman