DRN-2333008
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW Financial). 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial to acquire 
a brand new car. The total cash price of the car was approximately £86,589. Mr C provided 
an initial payment of around £28,750, and after the first repayment of around £668 the 
monthly repayments on the agreement were around £668 over a 46-month period. There 
was an optional final repayment of around £33,462 at the end of the agreement.
At the beginning of June 2019, after the car had travelled around 2,000 to 2,500 miles, Mr C 
took it to the dealership for its first service, at which point Mr C says there were no issues 
with the car. Mr C says that after the service, on the journey back home, he heard some 
slight squeaking noises when braking, but he says he thought it must be due to the service 
(cleaning) of the brakes. As the noise didnt go away after a couple of weeks, he called the 
dealership to have the brakes checked. After the dealership checked the brakes, he says 
they told him that his type of car has carbon brakes and that in the handbook it highlights 
that squeaking can happen. Mr C says he was hoping the squeak would disappear but a few 
weeks later when it didnt, he took the car back to the dealership. He says that when 
travelling on the motorway or having music on its not a problem, but when driving through 
the city at low speeds it is incredibly distracting and annoying.
He says during the second visit, the dealership ran tests and afterwards again gave him a 
similar answer. He says he was told that this was highlighted in the handbook; which states 
that squeaking brakes are a characteristic of this type of car. So, he says he decided that he 
didnt want the car and questioned how a dealership could have sold such an expensive car 
without disclosing this issue. Mr C says that driving with the squeaking is both distracting 
and causing him to feel very stressed, especially when he is taking the kids to school in the 
morning and driving through the city. He also says that he would have never purchased the 
car if he had been informed of this issue. 
In November 2019, BMW Financial wrote to Mr C. In this correspondence they said that a 
technical case was raised with the manufacturer of the car who they say has confirmed that 
the noise Mr C is experiencing is a characteristic of the brakes as opposed to a fault with 
them. They said that the brake systems on cars such as the one acquired by Mr C are 
recognized as being among the best in the world, and specifically designed with a bias to 
provide superior stopping power over consideration for comfort-related aspects. They go on 
to say that the noises are inherent to and a characteristic of high-performance braking 
systems. In this correspondence BMW Financial goes on to say that Mr Cs car handbook 
states: The vehicle has a high performance brake system with ventilated compound brake 
discs. Depending on design requirements, function noises may occur when braking. 
However, this has no effect on the performance, operational safety and stability of the 
brakes.. BMW Financial in this correspondence say that in light of this they are unable to 
consider the rejection of the car.
Mr C was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld.
BMW Financial disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr C acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. BMW Financial is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with 
complaints about their quality. Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as 
the one Mr C entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of 
the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Cs case the car was brand new, with a cash price of approximately £86,589. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to be of a higher quality than a cheaper and/or 
previously used car. I think it would also be reasonable to expect the car to last a 
considerable period of time before any problems occurred, and it would be reasonable to 
expect it to be free from even minor defects shortly after it was acquired. 
BMW Financial say that the manufacturer confirmed there is a brake noise, but that this is a 
characteristic of the car. And they say this has also been confirmed in the cars handbook. 
They say the car in question is a high performance car and the brakes reflect this. They say 
the brake systems in this cars model are recognized as being among the best in the world. 
They go on to say that the systems are specifically designed with a bias to provide superior 
stopping power over consideration for comfort related aspects, so, they say, the noises are 
inherent to and a characteristic of high performance braking systems. BMW Financial has 
referred to the cars handbook which says: The vehicle has a high performance brake 
system with ventilated compound brake discs. Depending on design requirements, function 
noises may occur when braking. However, this has no effect on the performance, 
operational safety and stability of the brakes..
It seems there is no dispute about the fact that the cars brakes make a noise. This has also 
been confirmed by Mr C, who provided several videos which appear to show the cars 
brakes make a noise. It seems that this noise happened very soon after Mr C acquired the 
car. However, just because there is a noise coming out of the brakes doesnt automatically mean that there is a fault or a defect with the car in question. Also, just because there is a 
noise coming out of the brakes doesnt automatically mean the car was or wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. I say this because cars obviously make noise when they are in operation 
and are being driven. Im satisfied that Mr C reported hearing this noise early on in June 
2019, within three months, after the car had travelled around 2,000 to 2,500 miles and had 
its first service. 
The dealership where Mr C took his car to get the brake noise checked out seems to operate 
as one of the main dealerships for the relevant manufacturer of the car in question. So, I 
would expect the individuals working there to be familiar with the model of this car. Which 
means that if the brake noise was a normal characteristic of this specific model, I think most 
likely they would have mentioned this right away to Mr C before even booking it into the 
service department to examine the issue. It is not clear if this was mentioned to Mr C when 
he complained about the brake noise, but I also accept that when Mr C raised an issue with 
a safety related part like the cars brakes, it was reasonable for them to agree to check it 
over. 
However, if there wasnt a fault and this was just a characteristic of the car, I wouldnt have 
expected the dealerships technician to suggest any remedial action. When in fact I can see 
from the videos provided from the inspection of the brakes that the technician at the 
dealership did recommend taking out the brake pads out of the front and rear, clean them all 
up and glaze them. He made this suggestion, as he said that the issue can be caused by dirt 
ingrained into the brake pads. This raises questions as to why would almost a brand new car 
that has only travelled approximately between 2,000 to 6,500 miles at that point need this 
work. Also, if the noise was only a characteristic of the car and not a fault with it, then I think 
most likely the dealership would not have suggested this work. This is because most likely 
they would have thought that these works will not change whether the noise will continue 
afterwards.
I know that BMW Financial mentioned that the technician in the video also says that at low 
speeds the brakes are not getting hot enough and that the performance brakes on high 
performance cars work better at hotter temperatures when faster speeds are hit. The 
technician says that this is because with higher speed the brakes warm up, and as 
compounds in the brakes get a bit softer this stops the squeak from happening. But Ive 
watched the videos provided by Mr C which show the car travelling at various speeds. I think 
this footage seems to capture the noise that he is concerned about, which is the 
squeaking/squealing noise coming from the brakes. Also, from what Ive seen and heard it 
seems that the cars brakes make this noise at higher and lower speeds. I think a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect the cars brakes to make this sort of noise in the usual course of 
events. So, it is understandable that on two different occasions Mr C brought the car back to 
have this checked by the dealership.
This brings me to the second visit when Mr C again took back the car to the dealership, 
complaining that its brakes are still making the noise. BMW Financial has told us that there is 
no job card for this second visit as they say that the dealership advised Mr C that the squeak 
is the result of having high performance brakes and that this is common in high performance 
cars. They also say that during that visit Mr C was advised to check online for other high 
performance cars having the same characteristic. But it seems that during that second visit 
the dealership kept the car for a few weeks and Mr C says that during this period he was 
provided with two different courtesy cars. So, I question why they would have kept the car for 
so long if the noise was just a characteristic of this car model and not a fault. I agree that the 
first time Mr C raised an issue with a safety-related part like the cars brakes, it was 
reasonable for them to agree to check it over. But, I think, the second time the dealership 
most likely would have reiterated right away to Mr C that the noise is just a characteristic of 
this car model instead of keeping the car for such a long time, if there was nothing wrong with the cars brakes.    
I thought about the fact that the dealership may have just been appeasing Mr C, but I think 
most likely during the first visit the remediation work would not have been suggested at all, 
and I think most likely during the second visit they wouldnt have kept the car for so long. 
And if the noise is just a characteristic of this car model, I think they wouldnt have gone to 
the extremes of providing Mr C with a courtesy car. Most likely they would have turned him 
away by being adamant that it is just a car characteristic, and that nothing can be done. 
When in fact, I can see from the correspondence between Mr C and the employees of the 
dealership that they themselves decided to raise an enquiry with the manufacturers 
technical and customer services regarding the noise. So, I think most likely, if this was a 
normal characteristic of the car, I dont think one of the main dealerships for the relevant 
manufacturer - where individuals working there are most likely familiar with the model of the 
car - would question the noise themselves. So, I think the fact that they had the car in on two 
occasions, and raised the issue with the manufacturer, leads me to conclude that most likely 
it is not just a normal characteristic of the car or that such unordinary noise as Mr C is 
experiencing is expected. It is therefore most likely a minor defect on Mr Cs car. Also, I think 
if the brake noise was a characteristic of the car, I think most likely it would have been 
present from day one, whereas the noise only started after the car had its first service in 
June 2019, so after it travelled around 2,000 to 2,500 miles. 
I know BMW Financial say that the manufacturer has confirmed there is a brake noise, but 
that this is a characteristic of the car, and they say this has been confirmed in the cars 
handbook. But Mr C says he was only referred to the cars handbook after the dealership 
failed to resolve the brake noise issue. Ive not been presented with any evidence which 
indicates that Mr C was shown the part of the handbook which addresses the noise of the 
cars brakes prior to the sale. And Mr C testimony has been consistent throughout the 
complaint about what happened, so I believe his account of events when he says that he 
was only given the cars handbook after the sale, and that his attention was not drawn to that 
specific section at the time of sale. Considering that the brake noise, like that presented in 
the videos supplied by Mr C, is not common in low or high performance family cars, I think a 
reasonable person would expect to be informed about this so that they can make an 
informed choice about whether to make the purchase. And I believe Mr C when he says that 
he would have never purchased the car if he had been informed of this issue, considering he 
says that driving with the squeaking is both distracting and causing him to feel very stressed; 
especially when he is taking the kids to school in the morning and driving through the city. 
I think most reasonable people expect the brakes to work without significant noise most of 
the time. I think the noise as, evidenced by the videos provided by Mr C, is sufficiently out of 
the ordinary to consider the car of unsatisfactory quality, which is consistent with the 
dealerships attempts at trying to resolve the issue. And, like I said above, if the noise in 
question is a characteristic of the car, I would have expected such a significantly 
unusual/unordinary noise to be drawn to the attention of Mr C prior to the sale. 
I have not been presented with any evidence that would make me think that most likely the 
noise in question impacts on the cars roadworthiness, but I think most reasonable people 
would find it unordinary/unpleasant/disconcerting/off-putting, and many reasonable people, 
just like Mr C, would find it stressful. I think in an average new car the noise in question 
would be unacceptable, and it would be especially unacceptable in a brand new car with a 
high cash price of approximately £86,589. So overall, I think the noise in question is 
indicative of an issue or some sort of a defect with the car. It is not exactly clear what is 
causing the noise but I dont think that is necessary to determine it is a fault, as it is 
reasonable to expect car brakes to work without any additional noise the vast majority of the 
time, as in this particular case. Considering this and the high standards Mr C could reasonably have expected from a brand 
new car at such a high price, I think most likely the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. BMW Financial had two unsuccessful attempts at trying to resolve this issue, 
so CRA allows Mr C to reject the car. As there seems to be no fix available to stop the 
brakes noise in question, I think it is unreasonable to expect Mr C to continue to drive the 
car with the squeaking/squealing noise coming from the brakes. I think in this case, it is fair 
and reasonable that Mr C is allowed to exercise his right to reject the car, and the hire 
purchase agreement should be cancelled with nothing further to pay.  
Putting things right
BMW Financial should refund Mr Cs advance payment of £28,749.96, which he made at the 
outset and any adverse information should be removed from his credit file. The credit 
agreement should be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something similar, and 
should not show as voluntary termination.
Mr C has been able to use the car and it does appear that the car has been used broadly in 
line with the original expectations, considering the 12,000 mile annual mileage limit on the 
hire purchase agreement. However, driving the car with brakes constantly making a noise is 
likely to have been somewhat stressful and annoying to him. So, this would have reduced 
the enjoyment Mr C would have had while driving the car. Which has been further 
exacerbated by the prestige brand and the greater expectation around luxury considering the 
brand model and the price of the car. There is no exact mathematical method to quantify the 
impact on Mr C having had to drive the car with this issue but, having considered the 
circumstances, I think that Mr C should be entitled to 10% of the hire purchase repayments 
he has made, since he first experienced the issue in June 2019. 
In June 2019, Mr C purchased a service plan form the dealership for five services and paid a 
total of £999. I think Mr C has lost out because of the car not being of satisfactory quality and 
he has not had the full benefit of this plan, so I think it is fair that he is provided with a refund. 
But considering that he has used some of the services under this plan, BMW Financial 
should provide him with a refund on a pro-rata basis for the portion he hasnt used. 
BMW Financial should also add interest to the refunded amounts from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per year. 
I also think that this matter caused Mr C a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to 
resolve it. He had to take the car back to the dealership a number of times and he had to 
correspond extensively with the dealership and BMW Financial. Which I think he would not 
have had to if BMW Financial supplied him with a car that was of a satisfactory quality. So, I 
think BMW Financial should pay him £250 in compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I know that BMW Financial, without providing any specifics, referred to cases escalated to 
our service about similar issues surrounding brakes in similar car models, and they say 
these had been resolved in their favour. But our service provides informal dispute resolution, 
and our decisions do not create binding precedents. Whilst there may be similarities 
between complaints, all complaints are considered on their individual facts and merits. Here I 
make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable, considering all the 
circumstances of this particular complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
3. Refund the advance payment of £28,749.96;
4. Refund 10% of all hire purchase repayments since Mr C first experienced the 
issue in June 2019;
5. Refund on a pro-rata basis the portion of the service plan he hasnt used;
6. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3, 4 and 5 above; from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement;
7. Pay Mr C £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
8. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to this 
credit agreement, and mark it as settled.
If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of my award, it should provide Mr C with a certificate showing how much they have 
taken off so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman