DRN-4082154
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited stopped taking payments his employer made into his 
pension plan.
What happened
Mr C had a pension with another company which he says was taken over by ReAssure in 
2021. His employer paid monthly contributions into it. Mr C says he was told by his employer 
that ReAssure had stopped taking its contributions in July 2021. Mr C says his employer 
sent a cheque to cover the missed payments. Mr C tried to contact ReAssure to ensure he 
hadnt been financially disadvantaged, but he says he received no response for some time.
When ReAssure did respond, it asked Mr C to complete a pension eligibility form. ReAssure 
accepted that it had made a mistake when it stopped collecting the contributions for his 
pension. It said it would reactivate his pension policy once this completed form was received 
and offered £75 compensation for its error. Mr C complained to ReAssure that he still hadnt 
been provided with details of whether his payments had been backdated or not.
In total, Mr C believes that around nine months of payments werent taken. Hes concerned 
that the payments havent been backdated to ensure he hasnt lost out financially as a result 
of the payments not being collected when they shouldve been. Given that he received no 
response from ReAssure, Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He asked for further information from 
ReAssure, including pension statements for the previous two years, but received no 
response. So, he proceeded with issuing his opinion on the complaint. Our Investigator said 
that ReAssure had accepted it had made a mistake but hadnt confirmed whether it had put 
right any financial loss it mightve caused Mr C. He said ReAssure should reimburse Mr C for 
any loss of growth or bonuses and provide him with statements for the previous two years 
showings his contributions and the growth accrued.
Again, ReAssure didnt respond to our Investigator, so the complaint was referred to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman. Following this, ReAssure did respond and agreed with our 
Investigators opinion. However, once ReAssure provided Mr C with the information our 
Investigator had asked it to, Mr C remained concerned. This letter showed that his 
employers contributions had stopped in April 2021 and, whilst a lump sum was applied in 
October 2021 (presumably the premiums that had been missed and were later paid by 
cheque by his employer), no further funds had been received since then. The letter provided 
no evidence that the missed contributions had either been backdated, or that premiums had 
been collected since.
Mr C received his annual statement in December 2022. This showed that premiums had 
been received monthly from the period of October 2021 until September 2022.
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision on 
28 March 2023. In this, I said:
Its disappointing that ReAssure hasnt engaged at times with our Investigator and still hasnt 
provided us with all of the information I would like to decide this case. And, because of this, I 
cant determine whether Mr C has been financially disadvantaged or not. Ill explain why and 
what ReAssure needs to do to put things right.
When there is a lack of evidence, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, whats most likely to have happened given the evidence I do have.
ReAssure accepts that it was at fault for the initial error in cancelling the pension payments 
collections from Mr Cs employers. It says its now fixed this. However, I cant see that 
ReAssure has ever provided Mr C any documentation to demonstrate that the contributions 
have been applied and invested at the correct time.
Following our Investigators opinion being sent, ReAssure wrote to Mr C on 16 August 2022 
to provide him with what it said were his contributions over the previous two years. This 
shows that premiums were received monthly from September 2020 until March 2021. It also 
shows a credit of £307.68 applied in October 2021  the equivalent of seven months of 
payments. This would seem to mean that the correct amount in monetary terms had been 
received up to October 2021. However, this had no details of any payments made since 
October 2021. And given that this was supposed to show all payments for the previous two 
years, and was issued in August 2022, its unclear why there are no further payments 
showing from October 2021.
This letter does not confirm that payments have been backdated to when they shouldve 
been taken either. It shows all of the missed payments being credited as a lump sum. So, its 
not possible for Mr C to know whether hes been put back in the position he shouldve been.
Mr C has recently been sent his annual statement covering the period of September 2021 to 
September 2022. This shows that payments have been received into Mr Cs pension on the 
first of each month from October 2021. So, it does seem that the issue with ReAssure taking 
the payments has been resolved. However, this still doesnt resolve the issue set out above 
of whether Mr C has been put back in the position he shouldve been i.e. whether the 
payments - which had to be made as a lump sum - have been backdated as if they were 
received on time. So, Im minded to tell ReAssure to put this right.
I can see that Mr C spent some time trying to rectify this matter including making a number 
of telephone calls and sending emails to ReAssure. It seems it took until December 2021 for 
the policy to be reinstated. Mr C also had to complete and send forms to ReAssure to have 
the policy reactivated when it was deactivated in error. This mustve caused some distress to 
Mr C in knowing that his retirement savings were potentially being affected by a mistake that 
wasnt his. And ReAssure wrote to Mr C telling him he was in arrears on his pension 
payments. Whilst it did write out soon after confirming this letter had been sent in error, this 
wouldve caused further anxiety to Mr C. Furthermore, ReAssure still hasnt confirmed 
whether Mr C has been financially affected or not. So, I think ReAssure should pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience this matter had caused. I can see it has 
offered £75, but I dont think this is sufficient given the amount of time this has gone on for 
and the impact all of this has had on Mr C.
I went on to set out what I though ReAssure should do to put matters right which Ill repeat 
below. I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C said he had nothing further to add. ReAssure responded saying it had applied all 
premiums to the policy so there was now an unbroken premium history. It said it was in the 
process of manually backdating the premiums to ensure Mr C hadnt suffered a financial loss 
and that it would produce a statement once this had been completed.Im now in a position to issue my final decision.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The findings made within my provisional decision (set out above) should be taken as forming 
part of this final decision. 
Given that Mr C has confirmed he has nothing further to add, and ReAssure has essentially 
started the process I suggested to put matters right, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision findings. 
So Im going to uphold this complaint and tell ReAssure to put matters right as set out below. 
Putting things right
 ReAssure should put Mr C back into the position he should be in had the payments been 
applied to his pension when they shouldve been. So, Im directing ReAssure to do the 
following to put matters right:
Check the dates that each payment has been received and credited to Mr Cs 
pension plan from January 2021 to date.
It seems from the annual statement that the payments should be credited to the plan 
on the 1st of each month. If there are any payments not credited on the first of the 
month, such as the lump sum payment showing as credited in October 2021, it needs 
to back date these payments as if they were credited on the date they shouldve 
been received if not for ReAssures error.
ReAssure should then calculate the value of Mr Cs pension as if his employers 
contributions had been continuous  i.e. made monthly and not as a single lump sum 
as per the step above.
This value should be compared to Mr Cs plans current value and, if it shows there 
has been a loss, ReAssure should adjust the value of Mr Cs plan accordingly.
ReAssure should write to Mr C in clear and simple terms providing details of any 
adjustments it has to make and the effect this has had on his pension plan.
Once this is all done, ReAssure should provide Mr C with an accurate up to date 
statement from January 2021 to the present date showing the payments having been 
credited to his plan when they shouldve been. This is in addition to the explanation it 
needs to send detailed in the bullet point above.
ReAssure should increase the amount of compensation its paid to Mr C to a total of £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require ReAssure Limited to put matters right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman