DRN-2100885
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Pink Finance Limited handled a change to his life insurance policy.
What happened
After his wife sadly passed away Mr L contacted Pink to discuss his life insurance. His 
existing policy, which only had a short term remaining, was cancelled and replaced with a 
new one that had a longer term. Mr L was unhappy with this saying that he wanted to amend 
his existing policy rather than having it cancelled and replaced. He feels that because of this 
action he has lost out financially.
Pink looked into things and said that cancelling the existing policy and replacing it with a new 
one hadnt caused Mr L to lose out financially as the policies have no cash in value. The 
premiums he paid were payments for the cover that was in place, and had a claim been 
made the cover wouldve paid out. Mr L remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked in to Mr Ls concerns. He thought that Pink had made it clear 
in the telephone conversation that the old policy was being cancelled and replaced with a 
new one, and that Mr L had consented to the change. He also explained that because the 
policies have no cash in value there hadnt been a financial loss. Mr L disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is unhappy that his old policy was cancelled, and a new policy was set up. Because of 
this he feels he has suffered a financial loss. 
Ive looked at the transcript of the telephone call between Pink and Mr L when the changes 
were made. There was a conversation about changes to the amount of the policy and the 
term. When these were agreed Mr L said to Pink So can you arrange that then?. Pink said 
that they needed to ask some medical questions and that once weve got this one set up we 
can just cancel the old one on your behalf so you dont need to worry about having to cancel 
it or anything. Mr L replied saying Okay. Towards the end of the conversation Pink said 
This policy will cover you from today and I will arrange for the older policy to be cancelled 
off for you as well.
Looking at the conversation Im happy that Pink made it clear, on more than one occasion, 
that the original policy would be cancelled.  
Mr L spoke with Pink soon after his wife passed away and it was clearly an upsetting time for 
him. Mr L says he was vulnerable and felt pressured during the telephone call. Looking at 
the conversation I think Pink showed empathy for Mr L in his situation, they answered his 
questions and explained the next steps. So whilst Mr L mightve felt pressured, I havent 
seen any evidence of Pink pressuring him with the changes that were made. They asked 
him questions about what he wanted and set up a policy that matched his budget and 
requirements.
Because the old policy was cancelled Mr L says that he has lost out financially. Ive seen no 
evidence this is the case as the type of policy Mr L had has no cash in value. Mr L pays 
monthly premiums for the cover provided under the policy and when the policy ends the 
covers ceases. There is no refund of the premiums that have been paid as there is no 
investment part of this policy. The policy document Mr L was provided with after the sale of 
the policy confirms there is no cash in value. The new policy Mr L has works in the same 
way.
Mr L is unhappy with some of the language used when emailing him about what happened 
saying that Pink was arrogant when saying that he hadnt suffered any financial harm. 
Looking at the email I think Pink was explaining the situation as they saw it. Whilst Mr L 
might have taken offence to what was said, I dont think that Pink meant to cause offence.
During our investigation Mr L raised the issue of commission paid to Pink by the policy 
provider. This didnt form part of Mr Ls original complaint, so it hasnt been investigated by 
Pink. If he wants to pursue this issue he will need to make a new complaint to Pink.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Pink acted fairly and reasonably when speaking 
to Mr L and cancelling his old policy and setting up a new policy. Im also satisfied Pink 
made Mr L aware in the telephone call about what was happening. Although Mr L remains 
unhappy, Ive seen no evidence that what happened caused him a financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not upload this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman