DRN-3747450
The complaint
Ms W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms W says she opened the Aqua credit card account in November 2017. She says at the 
time she had taken out a number of payday loans and was in financial difficulties. Ms W says 
she had a poor credit score at the time, and it ought to have been clear she was in financial 
difficulties. She says appropriate checks were not carried out by Aqua and would like all 
interest and charges refunded as well as any adverse information removed from her credit 
file.
Aqua says the account was opened on 2 November 2017 and Ms W declared an income of 
£1,500 a month with additional household income. It says it calculated Ms Ws debt at about 
£700 and considered that the last adverse information on her credit file was over two years 
before the application. Aqua says it checked the credit file and couldnt see any payday 
lending recorded at that stage or any accounts in arrears. It says it approved a credit limit of 
£250 and says the account balance was repaid in 2018.
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator looked at Ms Ws credit file and could see a number of payday loans taken out 
before the credit card account was opened. The investigator thought that indicated that the 
credit card account was likely to be unaffordable. The investigator recommended interest 
and charges be refunded and if necessary, interest paid to Ms W as well as her credit file 
amended.
Aqua doesnt accept that view and says it didnt have any information about payday loans 
when it checked Ms Ws credit file and says it isnt responsible for the reporting dates.
I asked Ms W for further information about the payday loans as well information about her 
income. I also asked her for her bank account statements, but she has not replied to that 
request. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said as follows.
I thought that appropriate checks were carried out by Aqua before approving the credit card 
account.
 I said that lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
on any lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the 
type and amount of such lending. I said I wouldnt have expected Aquas checks to have 
been as detailed compared to a mortgage application and could see this was a credit facility 
application. But of course, appropriate checks must still be carried out.
I could see that Ms W applied for the account in 2017, but it was not clear when exactly she 
applied for the account but could see it was approved on 2 November 2017. I said I hoped 
Aqua or Ms W could confirm the exact date before my final decision. I could also see that Ms 
W declared an income of £1,500 a month from employment and said there was additional 
household income of £1,900 a month. 
I looked carefully at Aquas records and I was satisfied that it did carry out checks on Ms Ws 
application and considered her credit file. I saw that it calculated her other debt at about 
£700 and considered that the only adverse information was recorded over two years before 
the application. I was satisfied that Aqua did check Ms Ws credit file for other loans and 
payday lending but did not see any information about that type of lending. So, I was satisfied 
that Aqua did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms Ws application and that 
those checks didnt reveal any information which suggested the lending was unaffordable. I 
said it follows that I didnt think Aquas lending was irresponsible or on the face of it 
unaffordable.
I appreciated Ms W provided us with a copy of her credit file which I looked carefully at. I 
could see that there wasnt any adverse information recorded on it but accepted that there 
were applications for short term lending at or around the time of the Aqua application. I made 
clear that I thought Aqua did check for such lending and I couldnt fairly hold it responsible 
for the date that lending was reported to the various Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). I 
thought on balance that due to the date of the lending, it was possible that at the time of 
Aquas checks, that the credit file didnt have such information. I also didnt think it clear how 
many short-term loans were taken out and their dates as it appears, they may be duplicated 
on Ms Ws credit file. That is the reason I said I asked for information from Ms W about them 
and for copies of her bank account statements
Overall, I was satisfied that Aqua carried out appropriate checks on Ms Ws application. I 
was also satisfied Aqua approved what I thought was a very modest credit limit of £250, 
which on the face of it ought to have been affordable considering Ms Ws income and limited 
other debt. I saw that the debt had now been repaid.
Ms W hasnt replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman