DRN-4299347
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the length of time it took The Enterprise Fund Limited (EFL), trading 
as Business Finance Solutions, to arrange for his loan to be written off. He also complains 
about the information he was given and the customer service that was provided as part of 
the process. 
What happened
At the end of June 2022 Mr C contacted EFL about his health, and on 1 July 2022 he sent in
medical evidence to demonstrate his circumstances. He asked for the start up loan hed
taken in 2016 for a business venture to be written off. The funding had initially come from a
charity, who EFL contacted about the proposed write-off and included a summary of his
medical information.
Mr C contacted EFL frequently over the next few months, to chase an outcome to his write-
off request. He explained how much the situation was affecting him, and how his health
conditions made dealing with the issue much more difficult. Mr C spoke eventually to a
manager at the charity, who confirmed to him and EFL that he would agree to the write-off in
the circumstances.
But in October 2022 EFL realised that a different firm, which had taken over on the loan from
the charity, would actually need to authorise the write-off. So Mr Cs information was
forwarded on, and the process restarted. That firm, as part of its process, required an
income and expenditure form along with three months of bank statements before things
could be finalised. So in November 2022 EFL asked Mr C for that information.
Mr C wasnt happy with the request for more information at that late stage, and raised
concerns about the length of time the write-off process was taking. He also made a Subject
Access Request (SAR). In an attempt to minimise any further impact, EFL compiled the
evidence Mr C had provided already and submitted that to the firm for consideration  who
agreed to proceed without the information usually required. EFL confirmed the loan was
written off to Mr C on 7 December 2022.
After receiving his SAR Mr C called to complain about how he was referred to in the contact
notes, and that his medical information had initially been shared with the charity. He believed
that information should only have been sent to the firm that could authorise the write off.
EFLs response acknowledged the mistake and apologised for incorrectly sharing his
personal information with a third party. Unhappy with the response, Mr C engaged solicitors
to help negotiate a settlement for damages resulting from the alleged data breach. EFL 
reached a settlement with Mr C, via solicitors, and paid him compensation for sharing
sensitive personal information with the charity. 
Later Mr C complained about the delays in writing off his loan and the customer service EFL 
had provided in the months leading up to that happening. EFLs response said it didnt 
believe it had provided poor service or misleading information, but acknowledged there had 
been delays in the write off process. The letter included an apology, but EFL said it was 
satisfied the compensation already paid adequately addressed any stress, inconvenience, or 
health issues Mr C experienced during the process. Mr C didnt think the response resolved 
his complaint, and so he referred the matter to our service for review.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and didnt think we should consider the
complaint. He explained that under our rules, there were certain circumstances in which we
may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  and he believed this case was one
such instance. In the investigators view, a settlement had already been reached for
damages which covered any impact arising from the mistake and write-off process. So he
didnt think it would be appropriate for our service to reconsider an already settled matter.
Mr C disagreed, and said that while he had accepted an offer of damages for the sharing of
his information, he didnt feel the customer service or delays had been addressed by that
settlement. The investigator considered the responses and maintained his position that the
complaint should be dismissed. As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought it was appropriate for us to consider 
the matter, and also that I planned to uphold the complaint. Ive included below an extract 
from those findings, which sets out my rationale:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint and direct EFL to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mistakes. But I invite any further comments by the deadline, before I conclude 
the outcome of the complaint. Before I set out my rationale I wanted to acknowledge that Ive 
set out what happened briefly and in my own words  which inevitably means Ive included 
far less detail than has been provided to me. No discourtesy is meant by that, and even 
though I might not have directly referenced something Ive carefully considered everything 
thats been sent by both parties. I also havent intended to minimise what Mr C went through 
with my summary  Ive avoided going into lots of detail for obvious reasons. But hes 
previously shared in detail with EFL the challenges hes faced with his health, and explained 
extensively during phone calls how delays in the process were affecting him. So I dont need 
to restate that here.
EFL believes our service should dismiss the complaint, and at first stage we agreed. But Ive
decided it is appropriate for our service to consider this matter separately to the previous 
settlement reached with Mr C. I should first set out that dismissing a complaint is something 
we would choose to do, at our discretion, because it would be inappropriate for us to get 
involved  rather than it being a question of our jurisdiction in a matter. For instance, it might 
be that looking at a complaint could in some way impair our effective operation. In those 
circumstances it might be appropriate for us to dismiss  even if the matter technically fell 
within our remit. I havent found that to be the case here, as I consider the complaint about 
delays in the write-off process to be separate to the action Mr C took though solicitors in 
relation to EFL incorrectly sharing his personal information. 
Having reviewed the correspondence on both sides in relation to that settlement, its clear 
that agreement related solely to the data incident. At no point is it mentioned the 
compensation would also cover impact caused by the delays or the customer service given 
as part of the write-off process. I asked EFL to send me evidence that those complaint 
issues were explicitly included as part of the negotiations for the settlement, or for some indication they were intended to be, and everything Ive received confirmed the contrary. The 
only time its mentioned is when Mr C later complained about the write-off process. So Im 
satisfied the data incident has been settled separately, and I wont be considering any 
aspect of that (including the compensation paid) as part of this complaint. The issues Mr C 
has asked us to review havent been settled already, and so Ive deemed it appropriate for 
me to decide how those should be fairly resolved.
When Mr C approached EFL about writing off the loan, he evidenced that he was very 
vulnerable and his health was poor. The whole process took over five months, whereas it 
should have taken weeks (even setting aside Mr Cs vulnerability). The guidance from the 
Financial Conduct Authority on dealing with vulnerable customers, in force at the time, sets 
out that firms should be prepared to adapt processes where individuals are at greater risk of 
detriment due to their circumstances. So, given what Mr C had explained to EFL about how 
the debt was affecting him, Id have hoped the request would have been dealt with as quickly 
as possible  with some pragmatism exercised around what Mr C was expected to do as 
part of it. I appreciate, though, that EFL only had control over a limited portion of the process 
 but it was responsible for managing Mr Cs overall journey through it.
It's clear from the timeline that EFL made a mistake right at the start of the write-off process, 
by sending the request through to the wrong party. So EFL is accountable for the majority of 
the delays here  which is at least four out of the five months. During that period he 
contacted EFL frequently, and was seriously distressed by the largely avoidable wait for the 
outcome. I acknowledge that Mr Cs health challenges pre-date this period, and Im not 
suggesting EFL caused them  but the mistakes certainly exacerbated his existing anxiety. 
The loan was eventually written off, which was a decision taken by another firm. Ive 
considered whether that was something our service would have likely directed, as it if it 
wasnt I might feel that in the round there wasnt anything further needed to put things right. 
The Money Advice Liaison Group said in its Debt and Mental Health Guidelines 2015 that 
Creditors should consider writing off unsecured debts when mental health conditions are 
long-term, hold out little likelihood of improvement, and are such that it is highly unlikely that 
the person in debt would be able repay their outstanding debts. The Lending Standards 
Board later echoed that advice, and both pieces of guidance reflected what good practice 
looked like at the time in question here. So, having reviewed the evidence concerning Mr Cs 
circumstances, along with the relevant industry guidance, Im satisfied writing off the loan 
was the appropriate outcome here. That assessment, combined with it being the owner of 
the debt rather than EFL which made the decision, means Im comfortable compensation is 
due on top of the write-off.
Mr C has said EFL gave him misleading information during the period in question. I agree 
that in the calls Ive listened to, and emails Ive reviewed, he was given conflicting answers 
around which firm was in charge of writing of the debt and what the process looked like. 
Whilst some of the information Mr C was given was incorrect, I dont think EFL set out to 
deliberately mislead him. But the impact was the same  as Mr C became increasingly 
frustrated by the confusing responses, and understandably suspicious about what was 
actually happening given the extraordinary length of time it all took. The conversations were 
difficult ones to have for both Mr C and EFLs agents, though Im by no means equating the 
difficulty experienced. Mr C was in a very vulnerable position and clearly struggling, yet there 
was little any of the agents could do to help on each call (EFL wasnt making the write off 
decision). But underlying all of that was a delay that should never have occurred  so Mr C 
should never have needed to have any of those conversations.
The wording in some of the contact notes, which Mr C saw following his SAR, upset him  
and I think that was largely down to an error that occurred when they were exported to aspreadsheet. Some of the notes were cut off, which meant Mr C only saw part of what was
recorded. One entry finished abruptly in an unfortunate place, and in its unfinished state
seemed to imply Mr C took the money. Again, that wasnt deliberate on EFLs part  but the
effect was the same, as Mr C felt he was being discussed in a derogatory way. Having heard
the full wording of the communication sent to the firm, as part of the write-off considerations,
Im satisfied it was factual and not personal. The inclusion of an assessment of Mr Cs
likelihood to repay the debt was important. Ultimately its that factor, caused by his health
conditions, which meant the write-off was appropriate  rather than the health conditions
themselves in isolation.
After the mistake was discovered, EFL was told to request further information in line with the
new firms write-off process. That was understandably distressing for Mr C, as it wouldve felt
like he was starting the process all over again (and effectively he was). Thats despite having
been told by a manager at the charity the write-off had been agreed. EFL did step in and
ensure there was some pragmatism exercised on the part of the firm deciding the write-off,
which did avoid further delays. But I still think the request for further evidence at that stage
was distressing in the context of how long Mr C had waited for an outcome to his request 
and wouldve been avoided, had the delays not occurred.
Ive considered our approach to making these types of awards, and the guidance we publish
on our website. Compensation for distress or inconvenience isnt designed to be punitive  it
needs to fairly address the practical and emotional impact mistakes have resulted in. The
mistakes affected Mr C significantly, when he was already vulnerable. So, taking account of
everything Ive described above, I consider fair compensation to be £400 in the
circumstances. That puts the award in the range (from our published guidance) covering a
mistake causing considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience
and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out over many weeks or months. I
think that description is commensurate with the impact EFL caused Mr C  and having
reflected on the example case studies given under that range, Im confident £400 represents
fair compensation for what happened here.
Mr C replied to say he accepted my findings. EFL didnt agree with my provisional decision, 
and made the following points in response:
EFL agreed with the investigators point of view, that the offer made for damages 
relating to the data breach also covered the impact claimed for here  i.e. the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in writing off the loan. 
EFL said that was because the data breach had effectively caused the delay, as the 
sending of the information to the wrong party resulted in the loan not being written 
off for many months. 
EFL argued the issues being looked at under this complaint were knock on effects 
from the data breach incident and the information being passed to the wrong party. 
So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct further compensation, when what had been 
paid already was (in the investigators view) above and beyond what we would 
have recommended. 
Mr C had also benefitted from the loan being written off. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and for the same reasons I set out 
in my provisional findings. Ive not been persuaded to depart from that position by EFLs 
response  but Ive addressed the points it raised below.
EFL is attempting to apply a retrospective argument here  specifically, that because the 
data incident kicked off the issues complained about, or was the first mistake in the timeline, 
the damages already paid to compensate the breach should (implicitly) be taken to cover 
everything that happened. But I dont agree the impact arising from the delay in writing off 
the loan was clearly intended to be included in the settlement reached. I also dont agree the 
impact Im awarding for all flows from the data breach, or was a knock on effect of it.  
Ive already set out that, having reviewed the correspondence between Mr Cs solicitors and 
EFL, I think the settlement negotiated only intended to compensate him for the distress 
directly arising from the sharing of his personal information. Theres no mention of the 
damages covering any alleged consequential losses  like delays in the loan being written 
off. So I dont think Mr C could have reasonably known those issues were included in what 
he was agreeing to. 
The delay in the loan being written off was really down to EFL not realising sooner the 
request hadnt been sent to the right party  rather than the data incident itself. There were 
plenty of opportunities for that realisation, as Mr C was in frequent contact with EFL during 
the period in question  which is why Ive held it accountable for the delays. Mr C also had 
other complaint points which werent connected to the initial breach, like being given 
incorrect information  and Im awarding for those mistakes too. I consider the issues 
covered under this decision relate to EFLs responsibility as administrator for the loan, in 
charge of managing the write off process  rather than its obligations under the General 
Data Protection Regulations (the GDPR) as a data controller.  
What wed have been able to look at, had the claim arising from the data incident not been 
settled already, would have been quite different in scope. The settlement reached was for a 
breach of the GDPR, and damages for that can only be awarded by the courts. Our service 
doesnt have the remit to decide if theres been a breach or direct compensation be paid 
under Article 82 of those regulations. As I have no power to make such an award, it follows 
that I dont have the remit required to decide if it was fair damages, and include it as part of 
any overall considerations. I find the matters Mr C has referred to our service sufficiently 
distinct to the data incident anyway. So, as compensation for the breach has been settled 
separately to this complaint, Im not taking that previous offer into account when deciding a 
fair award for the errors in the write-off process.
Ive considered what EFL has said about Mr C benefitting from the loan being written off, 
but that doesnt change my stance on whether additional compensation is due. The idea that 
Mr C benefitted from that decision implies it was above what would have been required. But I 
have no doubt the loan being written off was the only fair outcome to his request  and 
something our service would have directed, had it not already been agreed. So I havent 
viewed it as a benefit. EFL hasnt lost out on recovery of those funds either, as a different 
firm owned the debt. So Ive not considered the write off amount as something EFL has 
already spent towards putting right its mistakes. It is separately responsible in this matter.
Ive previously set out the reasons why I consider £400 to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances  and Ive not been persuaded to depart from that outcome. My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Cs complaint about The Enterprise Fund Limited, and direct 
it to pay him £400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman