DRN-1610274
 
The complaint
Mrs C says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs C's complaint. I'll explain why.
Mrs C has told us she didn't have a choice about whether to take the PPI, as she 
"didn't know the choice was there". And she says she wouldn't have opted for it if it 
had been explained as a choice. 
 
I've seen a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application form. There was a box to tick if the 
applicant wished to take PPI. Mrs C could have left the box unticked. But she ticked 
it, indicating that she wished to take the cover. I think it was clear from the way PPI 
was presented on the form that it was optional. And I think Mrs C decided to take the 
cover, knowing that she had a choice - although I can understand how she may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
American Express didn't advise Mrs C to take out the PPI. This means that it didn't 
have to check if it was right for her. It was for Mrs C to decide whether she wished to 
take the cover, knowing what alternative means she'd have had of making her credit 
card repayments if she'd been off sick, or if she'd lost her job.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Cs told us she was entitled to some sick pay from her 
employer at the time. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have paid out for up to 24 months. Thats significantly longer 
than Mrs Cs told us shed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid 
the same benefit if shed made a successful claim on the policy for unemployment. 
Whats more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs 
C received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-
day expenses.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs C, 
especially as shes told us that aside from payments from her employer, she didn't 
have any other means she could have used to make her monthly credit card 
repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 
Its possible the information American Express gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But I'm satisfied that Mrs C chose to take out the policy. 
So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what she's told us about her circumstances at the time, 
she wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. It was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Mrs C was paying for the 
policy monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her 
circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
 
So taking everything into account, Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mrs 
C wouldn't have been able to benefit fully from the policy. And I think it unlikely that 
shed have made a different decision even if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy.
I've considered all Mrs C's comments, including what her representative have told us she's 
said about having felt pressured into taking out the PPI. I've explained that I'm satisfied that 
it was clear from the application form that the PPI was optional. And since Mrs C applied for 
the credit card and PPI by post, I think it's unlikely that she had any direct contact with 
American Express staff during the application process. So I think it's unlikely that pressure 
was put on her to take the PPI. And this doesn't change my conclusion that the PPI wasn't 
mis-sold.
This means American Express doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
American Express got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because American 
Express didn't tell Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, American Express has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so American Express Services Europe Limited doesn't 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But American Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back to Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman