DRN-2646335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain on behalf of their company (H) that The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) has failed to indemnify their business interruption 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H own a property that runs as a bed and breakfast and also hosts events such 
as weddings. They initially made a business interruption claim in February 2017 for loss of 
income, which they say was caused as a result of damage that was sustained to the 
property after a storm in 2014 that required substantial repair work to be carried out. 
However, the loss adjuster at the time determined that there had been no disruption to the 
business at the time, because a textured print screen had been erected to cover the 
scaffolding to ensure the property maintained its aesthetic appearance  meaning that they 
were able to carry out the original events they had planned.
Mr and Mrs H subsequently reverted back to NFU in February 2019, stating they had 
evidence to support a loss of income of around £168,000. They said theyd lost income due 
to a lower level of bookings, which they say stemmed from parts of the building being out of 
use due to the repair work. They also said they had a decline in couples booking their 
weddings as a result of the scaffolding and other works that were being carried out at the 
time. 
NFU says it requested evidence of the missed bookings, along with anything else to 
demonstrate that the scaffolding and works had been the cause of the decline in business. 
But despite the insurers requests, it says Mr and Mrs H have not provided the information it 
requested to show that H sustained business losses of £168,000 as a result of an insured 
event.
Mr and Mrs H say they have provided evidence of their accounts, which they say shows a 
demonstrable downturn in income while the property was undergoing repairs as a result of 
the storm in 2014. Ive seen a copy of these accounts, and I appreciate that they do show 
fluctuating levels of income between 2014 and 2017. But theres little other corroborative 
evidence to demonstrate that any downturn was a direct result of the scaffolding and works 
being completed, rather than a general decline in trading throughout those years (which can 
be caused by numerous other factors). 
The accounts also show that in some years, certain streams of revenue even increased 
(such as the wedding venue income increasing by around £50,000 in 2015, and bed and 
breakfast income increasing by around £30,000 in 2016. And while I agree it does show 
certain streams of revenue reducing in some years, I dont consider this in itself to be strong 
enough evidence to suggest that their claim should be covered, as it still doesnt 
demonstrate that the scaffolding and works were the proximate cause of these losses.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that their business was affected by the works. 
But what they are saying still seems largely speculative rather than based on evidence. 
Theres little to suggest that the reduced bookings or revenue compared to other years was 
caused by the repair works, rather than a general decline in business. I can see that NFU 
has also made reasonable attempts to verify the details of any bookings that didnt go 
ahead, such as having its loss adjuster call the prospective customers in the presence of Mr 
and Mrs H. But it appears that the loss adjuster was unable to speak to any of them to verify 
the reasons why they did go ahead with their booking, and even established that one such 
couple had cancelled their booking because they broke up, which therefore shouldnt have 
been included in the losses being claimed for.
It is a well-known principle of insurance that it is for the policyholder to prove their claim with 
reasonable evidence. And, as things currently stand, Im not satisfied there is enough 
persuasive evidence to substantiate Mr and Mrs Hs claims and losses being linked to the 
scaffolding and repair works. So, I do not consider that NFU has acted unfairly by failing to 
pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim based on the current weight of evidence presented. 
However, NFU has not outright declined the claim, and it has said that it will be willing to 
review the matter further if Mr and Mrs H can provide further details and evidence of the 
losses being claimed for, which I think is a reasonable stance for it to take in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H  on 
behalf of H  to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman