DRN-2833564
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a whole of life assurance policy by Phoenix Life Limited 
(PL).
Mr P is being represented. All references to Mr P will include information provided by his 
representative.
What happened
In November 1976 Mr P was advised to take out an Abbey Life Family Cover Plan (policy 
or plan). The key facts document said the policy was designed to provide a wide range of 
insurance protection for you and your family whilst building up a significant cash value. The 
policy included life cover and disability income benefit. The unit linked element provided a 
sum assured of £4,590 and after three years, the policy could be cashed-in with the units 
accumulated payable. The disability income benefit provided £1,000 a year if Mr P became 
disabled and was unable to work.
In 2020 Mr P complained to PL about the policy saying it had been mis-sold to him. He said 
at the time of the advice he was single with no dependents. And he only took out the policy 
because the adviser was known to his family and he considered he would be helping the 
adviser (financially) by taking out the plan. Mr P noted the adviser told him that because he 
(Mr P) was young, the policy could provide a form of savings for him going forward.
In summary, Mr P made the following other points in support of his complaint:
At the time of sale, hed only just arrived in the UK from abroad and was persuaded 
by the adviser to take out this plan;
He confirmed he didn't have any other cover at the time;
He isn't experienced in financial matters and it was only recently he felt the policy 
was unsuitable for him as he was single with no dependants at the time of the advice;
He should be refunded all of the policy premiums plus 8% interest.
PL rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said the policy was designed to provide annual benefits in 
the event of the death or the disability of Mr P. It said Mr P had married soon after the 
advice in October 1977 and has maintained the policy following the advice he received. 
And given he was married within eleven months of the advice, it would seem he was 
planning for this eventuality by taking out the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he thought PL had 
acted in line with the regulations in place at the time. He thought the policy was an 
appropriate fit for Mr Ps particular circumstances.
Mr P disagreed. After further correspondence with our investigator, Mr P made the following 
points:
He wasnt in a relationship at the time of the advice;
The policy is still active but this shouldnt stop the complaint being upheld as what 
mattered was what Mr P was told at the time of sale;
Our service has upheld similar cases previously.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mr P and his representatives, but I 
wont be addressing every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated on the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of Mr Ps complaint.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely conclude the 
policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Because Mr P took out this policy in 1976 which was before the Financial Services Act 
1986 came into force, there were different requirements when giving advice. The common 
law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation applied, 
rather than the suitability requirement which applied afterwards. Therefore, I have to 
consider this complaint in relation to the rules and regulations that applied at the time.
Also at the time of the advice, PL wasnt required to retain detailed paperwork about any 
conversations that took place. Therefore, its understandable that there may not be 
documentation to show what specific advice was given and why.
From looking at Mr Ps circumstances at the time, I can see he was 24 years old, single 
with no dependants. However, within a year of the advice Mr P did marry. Mr P says that 
this and the fact he kept the policy for more than forty years, isnt relevant as these 
matters happened after the point of sale. He refers to other cases decided on by this 
service.
I understand where Mr P is coming from but the policy didnt only have death benefits that 
would have benefitted his dependents, it also contained other elements that would have 
benefited Mr P whilst he was still alive. As a unit-linked policy it had a savings/ investment 
element and after three years Mr P would have been able to cash-in the policy to receive 
the value of the units which had built up. This is something Mr P seems to have been told 
by the adviser at the time of the advice as a reason to take out the policy.
I can also see that the policy included disability benefits  this benefit would have 
provided Mr P with an income in the event of him becoming disabled and unable to work 
if this was to happen before the age of 55. So, the disability benefit element of the policy, 
would have helped Mr P maintain his standard of living if the worse was to happen.
So looking at what benefits the policy provided, I think the adviser did exercise reasonable 
care and skill by recommending a policy that was an appropriate fit for Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time. I should also note that each case at our service is decided on 
individually. No two situations are the same. Ive decided this case on the facts of this 
particular case. All in all, Im not persuaded that Mr P was mis-sold the unit-linked whole of 
life policy.
I also think its likely that Mr P would have been supplied with documentation which provided 
information about the policy. The policy explanatory documents (key facts) that Mr P is likely to have received at the time of the advice, along with its terms and conditions, clearly explain 
the policy benefits and risks. I think these documents would have allowed Mr P to make an 
informed choice as to whether he wanted to purchase the policy or not. I appreciate Mr P 
had arrived from abroad, but he had an opportunity to discuss any concerns he had, or 
anything he didnt understand, with the adviser at the time.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman