DRN-3771433
The complaint
Mr A trading as H complains that Merchant Rentals Limited unfairly refused to cancel an 
agreement before the end of the minimum term after never using the terminal.
What happened
Mr A runs a business trading as H. He says he was looking at various options to allow him to 
take card payments on site. Mr A says he was given an agreement that he signed believing 
that there was a cooling off period. After Mr A told a representative of Merchant Rentals that 
he didnt want to go ahead, it refused to cancel the agreement.
Merchant Rentals says that Mr A signed a 12-month minimum term lease agreement to rent 
the terminal. The agreement isnt subject to a cooling off period and says you should sign it 
only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
The investigator didnt recommend that Hs complaint was upheld. In summary she thought 
the terms of the agreement were clear enough when Mr A signed them. The investigator 
didnt think Merchant Rentals had acted unreasonably by refusing to let H out of the 
agreement early.
Mr A is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He thinks that by law, a business 
should give any potential customer a cooling off period. Mr A concedes that he signed the 
agreement in haste but thinks that Merchant Rentals should be fair and show some 
compassion to a new business just starting out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Hs situation but I dont uphold this complaint. Mr A entered this hire 
agreement as sole trader H, so as a business not a consumer. Thats an important 
distinction which is reflected in the terms of the agreement. The key information box says: 
This Agreement is not cancellable by the Hirer. The hire agreement was for a minimum 
period of 12 months and there was no 14-day cooling off period. 
The agreement was sent electronically to Mr A and he had the chance to review it before 
signing it. As Mr A signed the agreement, I consider he is bound by the terms. This means 
its not unreasonable for Merchant Rentals to keep to the terms of the agreement by 
requiring H to continue making payments until the end of the minimum term. This is despite 
Mr A deciding not to use the terminal equipment provided by Merchant Rentals. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed but I dont consider Merchant Rentals needs to take 
any steps to resolve Hs complaint.
Recently, Mr A has said that the third party which sold him the agreement coerced him into 
signing the agreement. Merchant Rentals previously told Mr A that if he had any concerns 
about the way in which the third party sold him the agreement then he should take this up 
with them directly. I leave it with Mr A to decide whether he wishes to do this as my decision 
deals solely with Hs complaint against Merchant Rentals.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman