DRN-3655148
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont allow him to make repayments towards his accounts
by direct debit. Hes also unhappy about the difficulties he encountered trying to speak with
them on the phone.
What happened
Mr C had a loan and credit card account with Lloyds. His accounts went to collections after
he fell into financial difficulties, so repayment plans were set up for him to clear the
outstanding balances. Lloyds said the repayments had to be done by standing order or
faster payment. However, Mr C wanted to make the repayments by direct debit so that they
were protected.
Lloyds issued their final response letter and explained they couldnt accept payment by
direct debit because his accounts were closed. However, the final response letter was sent
to an incorrect address, so Mr C raised another complaint. Lloyds then issued another final
response apologising for their mistake. They also offered Mr C £100 in recognition of the
distress and inconvenience their mistake caused. Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought his
complaint to our Service.
Our investigator felt Mr Cs complaint should be upheld, in part. He explained Lloyds couldnt
collect repayments by direct debits for accounts because they were closed. But he felt 
Lloyds had offered safe alternatives for repayments to be made.
Our investigator didnt think Mr C had received the level of service hed expect. He felt
Lloyds should increase their award by £100 because they could have been better when
offering call backs, and for passing Mr C between departments unnecessarily when he tried
to raise a complaint in branch.
Lloyds said they didnt agree the award needed to be increased in the circumstances; but
would agree to pay it if it would resolve this complaint. However, Mr C didnt think the
additional award went far enough to recognise his lost earnings, distress, or inconvenience
he experienced trying to reach Lloyds on the phone. Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so 
his complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2022. In this I explained I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. That was because I felt Lloyds had offered him reasonable ways to 
make his repayments. I also felt his actions had played a part in the inconvenience hed 
experienced. As such, I couldnt say hed done what Id expect a reasonable consumer to do 
to mitigate their losses.
Mr C and Lloyds had until 31 August 2022 to send me any further points and/or evidence to 
consider. Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt agree; but didnt add anything 
further. Because of this my decision remains the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I know this isnt the 
answer he wanted, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Before I go into the substance of my decision, I wanted to assure Mr C that Ive noted his
strength of feeling regarding the issues he has complained about. But while I acknowledge
hes unhappy with the way hes been treated by Lloyds, I need to make it clear that we do
not punish financial businesses. Our role is to see where things have gone wrong, and if we
think a business has made a mistake, then we will decide a fair and reasonable way to put
things right. And when considering how a complaint should be resolved, our impartial role
means we need to be fair to both parties.
Should Mr C have been able to make payments by direct debit?
Its for banks, like Lloyds, to decide how repayment plans are set up and how the relevant
repayments can be received. That is their commercial decision to make, and our Service
doesnt have the power to interfere with  or change it. However, what we can do is
determine whether Lloyds has treated Mr C fairly. To do that, we would consider if hes being
treated differently to other customers with similar circumstances. So, thats what Ive done in
this case.
Mr C has said he wants to make his repayments by direct debit, as he feels that method is
safe. However, Lloyds says this isnt something they can do because his accounts are no
longer open. Because of that, payments need to be made by standing order or faster
payments.
While Mr C may have a preferred repayment method, its ultimately up to Lloyds to
determine how payments are made to them. I dont agree standing orders or faster
payments are unsafe. So, Im satisfied Lloyds have given Mr C reasonable options for
making payments towards his balances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest other customers with closed accounts can make repayments by
direct debit. Its for this reason, I consider Lloyds treated Mr C fairly when they explained the
payment methods available. As such, I wont be asking them to do anything further to put
things right regarding this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
The level of customer service provided by Lloyds
Mr C is also unhappy with the level of customer service he received from Lloyds. Hes said
he spent over 17 hours trying to speak with Lloyds over the phone, and often had to speak
with multiple departments.
Lloyds say their system only logs calls once theyre answered, so they dont have any
records to show how long Mr C would have been on hold. However, they do acknowledge
their waiting times would have been longer than normal due to the impact of the global
pandemic. This makes things more difficult to establish how long Mr C would have been on
hold each time he tried to speak with Lloyds. However, I dont consider the reasons for being
unable to provide this information is unreasonable. I also dont consider its unreasonable, or
unusual that their phones were busier than normal, as 2020 was the peak of the global
pandemic.As Lloyds were unable to provide call logs that detailed the waiting times Mr C experienced,
our investigator asked Mr C to send us copies of his phone bills to demonstrate the same.
Unfortunately, Mr C was unable to provide this as his mobile phone provider no longer held
copies of his bills due to the time that had passed. Mr C said Lloyds delay in sending their
file to us put him in a position where he was unable to provide us with supporting evidence.
Documents showing how long Mr C spent on the phone is important in this case because he
wants to be reimbursed for his lost earnings. Ive taken on board what Mr C has said about
the time it took for us to receive Lloyds file, and I agree it was a long time. However, I cant
agree this is the only reason we havent been able to easily identify the time he spent
dealing with the issues he has complained about.
As mentioned above, we are an impartial service, meaning we must treat both parties to a
complaint fairly. So, in the same way we expect financial businesses, like Lloyds, to send us
evidence to substantiate their position, we expect the same from the consumers. Given Mr C
was asking us to make an award for a quantifiable financial loss, I would expect a
reasonable consumer to provide us with evidence to support this loss at the earliest
opportunity. In this case, that would be evidence to substantiate what Mr C would have
earned had he not been trying to contact Lloyds over the phone for long periods of time (e.g.
wage slips, a letter from his employer etc) and phone records that detailed the time he spent
trying to speak with Lloyds.
I dont consider Lloyds delay in providing their file prevented Mr C from taking steps to
obtain this information sooner. In fact, the information Ive seen from Lloyds system notes
show they had previously asked Mr C to provide evidence from his phone records - but he
refused to do so. While he may have been incredibly frustrated with Lloyds at that point, it
didnt mean he could or should have refused reasonable requests for information. And
I consider Lloyds request was reasonable given Mr C was asking them to compensate him
for his time. Had Mr C appropriately responded to Lloyds request for information, its most
likely we would have been in a better position to consider the financial loss hes complained
about.
In addition to this, I cant ignore the fact that dealing with financial affairs and complaints
comes with a degree of inevitable inconvenience. Without sufficient evidence that shows
what Mr C experienced was above and beyond the norm, Im not persuaded it would be fair
or appropriate to make an award for financial loss in the circumstances.
When making an award for non-financial loss, the calculation of a reasonable award isnt an
exact science. Rather, we consider everything thats happened (as a whole) to understand
the impact of mistakes made by a financial business. To do this we would consider the
mistakes made by the financial business, what the consumer tells us about the impact this
had on them, and any steps taken by the consumer to mitigate their loss.
While I cant be certain how long Mr C spent on hold with Lloyds when trying to discuss his
accounts, I dont dispute it took up a considerable amount of his time. I say this because
Mr Cs testimony has been consistent throughout. I also cant ignore the fact he took time out
of his day and visited a branch during his attempts to get things sorted.Lloyds call waiting times were impacted by the global pandemic. This is something most 
customers would have experienced at certain times of the day when trying to speak with an 
adviser over the phone. However, Lloyds system notes indicate Mr C had calls that were cut 
off when being transferred to different departments. Ive also seen that when a call back was 
offered, Lloyds call went through to voicemail. In turn, Mr C didnt get to speak with 
someone despite his numerous attempts to do so. And while its always a possibility that
calls can be missed; Mr C was clearly very keen to get things sorted. So, missing a call
would have had a greater impact on him, in comparison to a less invested customer.
Ive also noted, and agree, that Mr C had to speak with different departments on occasions.
I can understand why this would have been frustrating, but its for Lloyds to decide which
departments are best placed to discuss particular accounts, and where those departments
are located. As Ive already explained, we dont have the power to tell Lloyds how to run their
business, so I cant say Mr C was always treated unfairly when this happened. Having said
that, I dont agree it was particularly good customer service when Mr C spoke with multiple
departments when trying to raise a complaint. Lloyds should have been able to simply take
the details of Mr Cs concerns, and then get their relevant departments to deal with the
issues if they felt that was necessary. Given the concerns Mr C raised about the problems
hed faced trying to communicate with them, I consider this mistake further proved his point
and exacerbated the problem.
I do agree that Mr C didnt always receive the level of customer service I would have
expected Lloyds to provide. The mistakes Lloyds made caused Mr C to experience distress
and inconvenience that was foreseeable. So, its only right this is recognised.
I said above that we consider all the circumstances of a complaint when deciding how to put
things right. So, Ive also had to give weight to the fact Lloyds paid Mr C £100 for sending
their final response letter to the wrong address. This is important because I consider Mr Cs
own actions contributed to the level of inconvenience he experienced.
Firstly, Im not disputing Mr C spent approximately 17 hours on the phone with Lloyds.
However, Im not wholly persuaded that was reasonable. Ultimately, Mr C also chose to stay
on the phone for that amount of time  and in turn, that meant he was unable to work for
those periods of time. I appreciate the call backs didnt work exactly as both parties may
have wanted, but they were a reasonable option that would have alleviated some of the time
Mr C needed to spend on hold. So, I cant agree refusing call backs was always appropriate.
Secondly, Lloyds had explained they couldnt send their final response by email because
they wouldnt be able to send it securely - meaning it could only be sent by post. While Mr C
told Lloyds which address he wanted their final response sent to, he refused to formally
update his address on their systems. I accept Lloyds should have made a note of this when
logging Mr Cs complaint. However, Mr Cs refusal to properly update his address meant he
played a part in Lloyds system not having the correct details for him. This, in turn, risked
having correspondence sent somewhere he could not easily access his post. As above,
I appreciate Mr C was frustrated with Lloyds, but I dont consider its always fair to make
awards where a consumer hasnt tried all they could to mitigate their own loss.
Mistakes were made by both Lloyds and Mr C. Because of that, I dont agree with our
investigator that Lloyds should pay an additional £100. I consider the £100 Lloyds offered is
sufficient to recognise the issues Mr C experienced with the way his calls were handled and
having the first final response sent to the incorrect address.I also dont consider Lloyds need to make any payments towards the financial loss Mr C
says he incurred. Thats because Ive not seen sufficient evidence to substantiate this. I also
dont agree Mr Cs inability to substantiate his losses are due to Lloyds delays in sending us
information.
Given the above, Im not upholding this complaint. So, Lloyds doesnt need to do anything 
further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman