DRN-2927799
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lifesure Group Limited, his broker, mis-sold him a caravan insurance 
policy. He wants it to cover his losses after the caravan was stolen. 
What happened
Mr M looked for a policy online through a comparison site and selected one offered by 
Lifesure. But when his caravan was stolen, the insurer declined his claim. It said he hadnt 
complied with the policys security endorsements for cover. 
Mr M said hed disclosed his security arrangements when hed taken out the policy. And he 
thought Lifesure shouldnt have offered him the policy if it didnt meet his needs. He thought 
this was a mis-sale and Lifesure should cover his losses. Lifesure said the security 
endorsements had been brought to Mr Ms attention during and after the application process. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr M 
had answered the application questions to the best of his ability. But he thought that the 
answers Mr M provided didnt mean that his application shouldnt be accepted. He thought 
the security endorsements had made it clear when a theft claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr M replied that he thought Lifesure was liable for his predicament as he thought it hadnt 
passed his details to the insurer. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans review and provided a 
detailed submission to support his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M is very unhappy that his claim was declined. I can see that hes 
expressed concerns about the underwriter, the loss adjuster and Lifesure, his broker. These 
are all separate businesses and so I can only consider his complaint about Lifesure here. 
Mr M also raised concerns about the insurance industry as a whole. But its not my role to 
consider these as Im not the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Mr role is to 
consider whether Lifesure has acted fairly and reasonably. 
In his submission, Mr M has raised his concerns that Lifesure still sold him the policy when 
his responses to its questions showed that he didnt meet the security requirements of the 
policy. He thought he should have been given better information about the security 
requirements or have been advised that the policy was unsuitable for him. 
Like the investigator, Ive looked at the application process to see whether Mr M was given 
clear information about the policy so that he was reasonably informed in order to make his 
decision to buy it. 
Mr M looked for a suitable policy through an online comparison site. He selected one offered 
by Lifesure and completed his purchase on its site. In this process, Mr M was taken through 
Fact Finding questions, which included those related to the caravans security. Theres no 
disagreement about the answers that Mr M provided so I wont consider this further.
But the outcome was that Mr M was offered a policy with conditions, or endorsements, 
applied. These stated when theft would not be provided. Insurance policies dont cover every 
eventuality and I cant say that this was unreasonable. And I think the endorsements were 
clearly shown online before Mr M completed his purchase and then again in the policy 
documents sent to him when he bought the policy. These endorsements were:
Additional Security Requirement
It is a condition of the Policy that whenever the Caravan is detached from the towing vehicle 
and left unattended the following additional security device must be in operation:
A pro-active tracker and/or
An ALKO Secure wheel locking device
Caravan Storage Compound/Site Conditions
Unless otherwise agreed with us, it is a condition of this policy that the Caravan Storage 
Compound/Site where the Caravan is stored:
Has a complete perimeter fencing/hedging/walls to all boundaries
Has locked gates/swipe card entry/barrier access to all entry/exit points
If the Caravan is stored within a barn or similar building the building itself must be secured if 
not with secured compound.
Tracking Device Requirement
Theft cover is excluded whenever the Caravan is left unattended or not in use unless an 
operational tracker device is fitted to the Caravan
Storage Requirement
Theft Cover is excluded whenever the caravan is not in use, unless stored within the storage 
that is shown on your Touring Caravan Schedule. This does not apply for a 7-day period 
immediately prior to and returning from using or visiting your caravan for holiday purpose, 
provided the caravan is kept at your home address during this 7-day period and when 
clamp/wheel lock & hitchlock are both in use.
In his submission, Mr M has argued that he met many of these endorsements. But thats 
relevant to the insurers decision to decline his claim, not whether Lifesure brought the 
endorsements to his attention. So I cant consider that here. 
Mr M thought Lifesure may not have passed his details to his insurer. But Ive not seen 
evidence to show that. On the contrary, the policy schedule clearly sets out the 
endorsements so I think Mr Ms details must have been passed to the insurer. 
Mr M was advised to read his policy documents and ensure that it met his needs. The policy 
was non-advised so I cant say that Lifesure should have told Mr M that the policy was 
unsuitable for his current security arrangements. I can see that Mr M was also told what he 
need to do for theft cover to apply. I can understand that he feels that this wouldnt have 
been practicable. But I think that was a choice Mr M had available to him.  
So I think Mr M had opportunity before he bought the policy to read the endorsements that 
would limit cover in the case of theft. I think these were clearly brought to his attention in the 
cooling off period so he could have cancelled the policy if he thought it was unsuitable for 
him. And so I cant say that Lifesure mis-sold Mr M the policy or that it is responsible for his 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman