DRN-1618549
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs H was sold PPI in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
Mrs H ticked a box on her credit card application form to show that she wanted PPI. So, I 
think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI, and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand if she cant remember this.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mrs H because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. To put that right, Lloyds 
has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that is fair in this case
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including what she has said about her partner 
helping out if she couldnt make her repayments. But these points dont change my decision. 
The help of her partner wouldnt be guaranteed because it would depend on their 
circumstances at the time, which could change. My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs H
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman