DRN-2135411
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the refusal of his claim under his bike insurance policy with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr S took out the policy in 2016. On 19 September 2019, he left his bike locked at a train 
station. I understand Mr S had intended to return to the station on the evening of 21 
September 2019 but he says his train line was affected by cancellations and delays and he 
was therefore unable to return to collect the bike until late evening 22 September 2019, 
when he found it as stolen. 
Assurant refused the claim as it says Mr Ss policy excludes claims for theft if the bike has 
been left unattended for more than 24 hours. 
I understand that a later policy (which Assurant says is not relevant to Mr Ss claim) provides 
a different wording and will cover theft if the bike has been left Unattended anywhere other 
than the Insured Location on the condition it is secured to an Immovable Object by an 
Approved Lock through the frame and is not left Unattended for more than 48 hours, unless 
this is due to circumstances out of your control. 
Assurant says that while this wording doesnt apply to Mr Ss claim, his claim would still not 
be met even under this more generous policy wording, as his bike was left for three days. 
Assurant says alternative transport was provided to those affected by the train cancellations 
but in any case, Mr S had planned to travel back on 21 September 2019 and his bike would 
still have been left for more than 24 hours then.  
Mr S is unhappy with the refusal of his claim, as he says there were disruptions to the train 
services, which meant he was unable to get back to the station as planned on 21 September 
2019. Mr S has made a number of submissions in support of his complaint, which Ive 
summarised below: 
Assurant declined his claim for abandonment which does not appear in his policy 
document and it has quoted from an old policy terms and conditions. 
Assurant made it difficult for him to access the policy documentation and 
communication was poor. 
The policy restrictions are unfair, were not drawn to his attention and were 
deliberately obscure. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 means Assurant is not allowed to rely on terms 
which are buried in the small print and this term should have been highlighted to him.
His bike was securely locked with a gold standard lock and he took every reasonable 
precaution to protect it. 
The term beyond your control is ambiguous and vague and no examples of what 
would be accepted as a circumstance beyond his control have been given in the 
policy. As such the term should be interpreted in his favour and should not be 
interpreted in its strictest sense. 
It was not impossible for him to have returned on 21 September 2019 but it would 
have involved an arduous journey taking considerably longer than normal. He made 
a reasonable decision not to do so and to return the next day instead. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr S does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy with Assurant is an annually renewable policy. Assurant says the same policy 
wording issued in 2016 was applicable throughout the life of the policy. Assurant says it no 
longer sells the policy Mr S has and now sells a different one with a 48 hour unattended 
clause. As this was an annually renewable policy, it seems to me that it might be reasonable 
to expect Assurant to have offered Mr S the alternative policy wording at renewal. I make no 
definite finding about this but for the purposes of this decision, think it is fair to consider Mr S 
claim and complaint as against the more generous policy wording, which allows a bike to be 
left at a station for 48 hours, or more if as a result of circumstances out of the policyholders 
control. 
Mr S says he planned to return on the 17:42 train on 21 September 2019 and, if he had done 
so, hed have been back within the 48 hour deadline. That train was apparently cancelled as 
was another later one and he tried to get on the next train but it was full.
Mr S says he therefore took a reasonable decision to postpone his trip back and apparently 
returned to the station at 11.10pm on 22 September 2019. 
So it is established that he did not return within 48 hours. Mr S says the delay was due to 
circumstances beyond his control and so his claim falls within the policy wording.  I do not 
agree. A delay in getting back on 21 September 2019 would reasonably be considered 
beyond Mr Ss control. However, there is no convincing evidence that he could not have 
returned sooner than he did, and either later on 21 September or earlier on 22 September 
2019. He was not just a little over the 48 hour limit, but around 24 hours over. Obviously, we 
do not know exactly when the bike was stolen, and it might have been within the first 48 
hours but we do not know. Leaving a bike for a long period does increase the chances of it 
being stolen, which is why this and all other bike insurance policies have terms such as this. 
It is therefore a fair and reasonable term in itself. 
Mr S says there is a lack of certainty about what would be considered as a circumstance out 
of his control and this should therefore be interpreted in his favour. It would be helpful to 
have some clarification on this in the policy but the lack of examples in the policy does not 
mean Assurant is not entitled to apply this term using a reasonable interpretation. I would 
certainly accept that the cancellation of the train Mr S had planned to return on would be a 
circumstance beyond his control. However, he took a decision not to try and get back that 
evening at all. That also might be interpreted as not unreasonable but he also didnt try and 
get home until late evening the next day. Overall, I am not persuaded that this entire delay  
was due to circumstances beyond Mr Ss control. 
The claim is therefore not covered. 
Mr S also says that he was not made aware of the policy terms when he took the policy out 
and if hed known about this restriction, would have taken a different policy without such a 
restriction. Assurant makes much of Mr Ss obligation to examine the contract and satisfy himself of the 
terms. Of course there is some responsibility on consumers to try and understand what they 
are buying. However, those selling insurance have a greater responsibility to make sure that 
a policyholder is aware of any significant or unusual policy terms that might affect their 
decision to buy the policy. 
The more significant, unusual or onerous a policy term the greater the effort to bring it to the 
consumers attention should be. This means not just writing in clear and unambiguous 
language but also how prominently important terms are placed and how each term is read in 
the context of the whole policy, so that a consumer can understand easily how the policy will 
work in practice. 
The term relied on by Assurant here is in my opinion, a significant one, as it potentially 
removes all cover for the bike. It is not, however, an unusual term as all bike policies I am 
aware of have a similar wording, which would remove cover for any bike left unattended in a 
public place for any particular length of time. I have not seen any policies which would 
provide cover in such circumstances for longer than 48 hours. 
Assurant therefore had a duty to make this term sufficiently clear to Mr S when he took out 
the policy. However, even if it failed to do so (and I dont intend to make a finding about this, 
as I do not think it is necessary for the purposes of deciding this complaint fairly) it does not 
necessarily mean it is not entitled to rely on it. Mr S says the term should in effect be 
disregarded but I could only agree with this if: i) the term were deemed unfair in accordance 
with the relevant legislation; or ii) it could be established that Mr S could have bought a 
policy without such a restriction in the cover, or that he would have changed his behaviour 
and not left his bike, if he had known about this policy term. 
As stated above, the term is not inherently unfair. It obviously greatly increases the risk of 
theft the longer a bike is left in a public place and insurers are entitled to apply such 
restrictions to the cover they are prepared to provide. And, again as stated, all bike 
insurance policies I have seen contain a similar wording restricting cover for any bike left 
unattended in a public place. So, I do not think Mr S would have been able to obtain another 
alternative policy without such a restriction and that would have covered his bike for up to 72 
hours in a public place, even if I were satisfied he would have been so concerned about it to 
try to do so. It also seems likely to me that Mr S would still have left his bike at the station in 
the way he did.
  
Overall therefore I do not think Mr S would have been in a different position, even if he had 
known about this term at the outset. I am satisfied his claim is excluded from cover. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ss position, I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman