DRN-3238655
The complaint
Mrs G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly registered a default on her credit 
file.
What happened
In June 2020, Mrs G used her HSBC card to deposit £1,164 with a separate savings 
provider. But a system error meant this went through twice. Mrs G contacted HSBC who 
opened a claim and issued a credit to her account. However, the savings provider also 
refunded her and so she received the money twice. So, Mrs G contacted HSBC and advised 
them to take the credit back. 
In July 2020, Mrs G closed her account. She has told us HSBC assured her that her account 
would be sorted before she switched service. She understood this to mean the credit which 
she had informed them needed removing. 
However, in March 2021 she checked her credit report because she wanted to apply for a 
mortgage. When she did, she could see HSBC had registered a default on her file and she 
complained to them directly. She has told us there was delay to her mortgage application, 
which was incredibly stressful and meant she had to move in with family. 
HSBC responded to the complaint and removed the default in May 2021. They offered £450 
compensation for the service. However, the credit of £1,164 was still outstanding so they 
would deduct this sum and ask Mrs G to pay the remaining £714. 
Mrs G didnt accept this offer and asked us to investigate. The Investigator issued her view 
explaining why she felt HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs G didnt agree as she felt the Investigator hadnt considered the impact to her and her 
family. She said the length of time alone caused stress and irritation. She also felt the way 
HSBC had treated her was appalling. She felt the Investigator could understand how bad 
HSBC had been and the unfairness of it, but it was being ignored. 
Additionally, Mrs G says she doesnt agree with the Investigators comments about the 
housing market conditions. She said there were delays in being able to put her house on the 
market and then in applying for a mortgage. And the amount recommended by the 
Investigator doesnt cover what it has cost her particularly because she was trying to obtain 
lending at the time. Also, that she couldnt say if she would have been able to apply for an 
alternative mortgage with a lower rate without speaking to her broker. 
As Mrs G didnt agree with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs G took reasonable steps to let HSBC know she had been credited twice by 
contacting them through their live chat service in June 2020. This was prompt and prior to 
the closure of her account. Therefore, HSBC should have ensured the account was settled 
before switching. HSBC have said their service could have been better and they should have 
reversed the credit they applied to the account before Mrs Gs account was closed. I agree 
with this and feel that Mrs G could have reasonably expected the account to have been 
corrected before it was switched to another provider. 
Ive also thought about what happened after the account was closed and whether HSBC 
notified Mrs G of the amount owed. Mrs G has told us the statements received after the 
account had been closed were password protected and she hadnt been given the 
password. She says this meant she was unable to confirm whether HSBC had removed the 
credit prior to the switch. However, I do think it would have been possible to contact HSBC to 
either obtain a password or reset it. In any event, statements from her new provider ought 
reasonably to have made her aware that the switch balance was higher than it should have 
been. 
Nevertheless, Ive seen evidence HSBC attempted to contact Mrs G in September and 
October 2020. For example, Ive seen a note which confirms a text message was sent as 
well as a copy of a letter dated 28 September. HSBC also wrote on 10 October 2020. The 
correspondence shows HSBC explained they would be reversing the credit. But at this time 
the account had already been closed so I appreciate this correspondence wasnt as clear as 
it could have been. HSBC have said they were particularly busy with disputes as a result of 
the pandemic, but Im of the view they could have contacted her about this more promptly. I 
would also have expected HSBC to start their collections process sooner and to have told 
Mrs G at this time. Nevertheless, I think from reviewing the correspondence it was 
reasonably clear that the credit would be reversed, and money might therefore be owed.  
Ive also seen letters dated 6 and 22 January 2021 which were sent by HSBC to Mrs G, and 
they asked her to pay the outstanding amount. These letters did not include any default 
notice, and this should have happened before HSBC recorded information on Mrs Gs credit 
file. Mrs G has said she didnt receive these letters. I cant say why this is the case, but Ive 
checked the details and Im content it is likely they were sent. Therefore, Im content HSBC 
tried to contact Mrs G to let her know about the amount owed and to give her the opportunity 
to pay. 
Mrs G has also raised concerns about how unfairly shes been treated by HSBC. I do 
appreciate what Mrs G has said here and I can understand why she feels this way. Ive also 
seen copies of correspondence from the time and can see she was increasingly stressed. 
For example, in her email of 12 May 2021 she explained she was worried about becoming 
homeless as she had sold her home. HSBC should have ensured they took the credit before 
closing the account and that they sent a default notice. I know this has had an emotional 
impact. I can understand why she feels she has been treated unfairly. Shes also unhappy 
about the costs and impact to her mortgage application.
Mrs G complained to HSBC on 23 March 2021 and I can see they acted to have the default 
removed from Mrs Gs file at the beginning of April. So, Im content they quickly took steps to 
rectify the issue. I understand the default reappeared again. Mrs G contacted HSBC to let 
them know on 23 April and again HSBC acted swiftly to rectify the issue once they had 
become aware of it. 
I understand there was some delay to her mortgage application, and I can appreciate why 
this would have been a particularly stressful time for Mrs G. Nevertheless, I understand she 
was able to provide some additional information to her mortgage broker and her application 
was accepted. Mrs G has said she may have been able to get a lower rate, but the evidence 
doesnt persuade me that there has been a specific financial loss here. 
Mrs G has also explained she had to live with family, and I understand this would have been 
difficult in the circumstances. However, it seems that it was always likely Mrs G would have had to move in with family. This is because she was living with them for a greater time than it 
took for the default to be removed. 
Overall, I agree it seems there was some delay to the mortgage application as a result of 
having to remove the default. I understand this would have been stressful for Mrs G at the 
time and it certainly wouldnt have been ideal to have to move in with family. But there 
seems to have been other factors which contributed to the time taken to complete the 
purchase of her new home and its likely she would have always had to move in with family. 
The evidence also doesnt show there has been a specific financial loss. Im also persuaded 
that HSBC did take steps to notify her of the amount owed, although I appreciate they should 
have done more in this respect. Nevertheless, HSBC should recognise the impact caused to 
Mrs G and Ive explained how below. 
Ive also thought about how Mrs G says she was treated during the telephone calls she had 
with HSBC. She detailed this on the complaint form to us. In particular, she said when she 
tried to raise it with HSBC they refused to help and said there was nothing that could be 
done in respect of the default until someone looked into her complaint. She said she spoke 
to a number of people before being told shed have to wait eight weeks. And one of the call 
handlers had referred to bullying when she asked for it to be resolved sooner. 
Ive listened to the call recordings which HSBC have been able to provide. I appreciate Mrs 
G is concerned this isnt all of the calls and Ive taken this into consideration. Ive also 
reviewed the telephone notes. 
The calls I have listened to do demonstrate that there was a lot of confusion about the issue 
and Mrs G spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve things. Her frustration was 
also exacerbated by the message she received from the call handlers. For example, she 
was told she had to wait eight weeks for a resolution, and no one would be able to help her 
any sooner. Then, she spoke to a manager who told her the memo to the credit reference 
agency had already been raised. The manager also explained the eight weeks she had been 
told about referred to the time for responding to the complaint. So, I agree, HSBC should 
have dealt with this more effectively and the calls Mrs G had with them at this time added to 
her frustration and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
HSBC accepted they had made an error and removed the default. They have also offered to 
reduce the amount owed by £450 in recognition of the service failings. But Mrs G doesnt 
believe this is reasonable as she feels the whole amount should be waived. Ive thought 
carefully about this and all the circumstances of the complaint to decide whether HSBCs 
offer is a fair one. 
Ive explained why I think something went wrong here. I appreciate HSBC should have 
corrected the account before it switched and might have written to Mrs G sooner about the 
outstanding sum. Also, Mrs G had to provide additional evidence to her mortgage broker 
about the default.  Mrs G also had to try and resolve the issue with HSBC and the calls I 
have listened to demonstrate the distress and frustration caused to her, as well as the time 
she spent on it. Ive noted that the upset caused was considerable.  
However, Mrs G had the benefit of money which wasnt hers. So, I cant conclude that the 
whole amount should be waived. Therefore, in all of the circumstances, Im persuaded 
HSBCs offer to reduce the sum owed by £450 is a fair one and appropriately recognises the 
impact of what went wrong here. 
My final decision
HSBC have already made an offer to reduce the sum owe by Mrs G by £450 and Im content 
this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should reduce the sum owed by £450.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman