DRN-1629655
Complaint
Miss S complains about a running account credit facility Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny) provided to her. She says Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss S and Sunny had told us. And he thought that 
Sunny hadnt treated Miss S unfairly. So he didnt uphold Miss S complaint. Miss S 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about short term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Miss S complaint. 
Miss S was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that 
Sunny needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Miss S before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Miss S 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Miss S was provided with a running account credit facility in May 2014. The facility had a 
credit limit of £600. And if Miss S drew down the maximum amount of funds she would be 
expected to make payments of around £105 a month for five months. Miss S cleared the 
balance of the facility within five months. 
Sunny says it agreed to Miss S application after shed provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Miss S provided on her income and 
expenditure showed that shed be able to comfortably make maximum amount of the 
repayments she was committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss S and Sunny have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss S first loan with Sunny. The information provided does suggest Miss S 
was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the maximum monthly repayment, the questions Sunny asked Miss S and this was the first 
time Miss S was borrowing from Sunny, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to rely 
on the information Miss S provided.
I accept that Miss S actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Sunny obtained. For example, I know that 
Miss S existing commitments to existing creditors was far higher than what shed declared. 
But Sunny could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve 
extended into Sunny asking Miss S to evidence what she was declaring.  
Equally its only really fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint and ask it to remove 
information recorded on a credit file, as Miss S wants Sunny to do here, where a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Sunny did anything wrong in deciding 
to lend to Miss S - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the 
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate. 
Sunny reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and given the overall circumstances of Miss S borrowing from Sunny, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to provide the funds it did  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss S wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the maximum amount she could draw down and the facility wasnt used for 
particularly long.
So overall I dont think that Sunny treated Miss S unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her running account facility or that it allowed her to draw funds when it shouldnt 
have done. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman