DRN-4078021
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr S used his Bank of Scotland Plc credit card (BOS for short) to make 
payment to an intermediary (the Intermediary) for long distance international flights for his 
two sons which were supplied by an airline (the Airline) which is a separate entity to the 
Intermediary. Mr S says one of his sons wasnt allowed to fly and was told this at the airport. 
Mr S says he cancelled that flight for that son at that time. His other son took the flight as 
planned. Mr S was told he was eligible for a limited refund on the flights not taken but he 
wanted a full refund.
So Mr S wasnt happy. So he complained to BOS. BOS considered what happened. It raised 
a chargeback with the Intermediary and later decided that such a chargeback no longer had 
a reasonable prospect of success. It also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 but concluded that the Intermediary had fulfilled its part of the contract and that there 
wasnt sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the Intermediary. 
It also said that the required relationship for S75 to apply wasnt in place, so in any event it 
couldnt be held liable under Section 75.  Mr S wasnt happy with BOS position, so he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt BOS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his BOS credit card to pay for these international flights (this was flights only-not a 
package holiday). This meant that if certain criteria were met, BOS can have certain 
responsibilities to Mr S which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Mr S to hold BOS liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence BOS can be held 
responsible for a like claim as that which Mr S would have against the Intermediary.
Mr Ss BOS credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving BOS a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as the 
Intermediary, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and 
it is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without BOS having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about BOS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly. This decision isnt about the 
Intermediary or the Airline, which arent within this Services remit for complaints about 
Chargeback and S75. I hope this crucial distinction is clear to Mr S.
could BOS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr S has been clear that he used the Intermediary to purchase the flights and doesnt 
dispute the amount charged, when it was charged, or whether it was applied correctly to his 
account. So I dont think BOS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr S didnt 
properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
BOS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is any longer a reasonable prospect of success.
BOS raised a chargeback with the Intermediary. So it clearly supported Mr S in his dispute 
with the Intermediary. The Intermediary responded by explaining it had provided the service 
agreed between the parties (that is booking the tickets) and that Mr S had cancelled the 
tickets in question on the date of the flight leaving the UK.
Ive considered the evidence and I agree with Mr S that he cancelled the flights for one of his 
sons. I say this because I can see an email from the Intermediary to Mr S dated stamped 
before the flight was due to take off referring to an earlier call with Mr S where its clear Mr S 
cancelled the flights. In that email it also makes clear that there is a small refund due, which 
is in relation to air taxes. It also makes clear hes not getting a full refund.
Mr S says his son was denied boarding by the Airline. Mr S says thats in relation to his 
vaccination status. In the terms and conditions Mr S agreed to when making the booking its 
made clear that passengers and not the Intermediary are responsible for their passports, 
Visas and health requirements. So if Mr S son didnt have the requisite health 
requirements to fly I can understand why the Airline didnt let him board. And in any event I 
note that such health requirements are solely the responsibility of passengers and not the 
responsibility of the Intermediary.
Its clear the flight flew. Indeed Mr S other son was on it. So clearly the service was 
available. Accordingly I can see why the Intermediary defended the chargeback and indeed 
why BOS decided it no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. So I dont think Mr S 
lost out because the chargeback wasnt taken any further than it was by BOS. And in any 
event Mr S cancelled the booking. And it was explained to him the refund he would get in 
relation to taxes. So the contract operated as it should in the event of cancellation. So there 
is no persuasive reason for a chargeback to be successful to my mind.
And as an aside Mr S has provided his sons vaccination status at the time. This shows hed 
had one dose of vaccine but at that time most countries required at least two doses to be 
allowed to fly. So Im not surprised he wasnt allowed to fly. But as Ive said, the health 
requirements of passengers was solely the responsibility of the passengers and not the 
Intermediarys. And Mr S agreed to this when buying the tickets.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Intermediary.For BOS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
Intermediary either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr S 
which was untrue and that led to loss.
I can see from Mr S arguments hes unhappy with the airline not letting his son on the flight. 
But this isnt the responsibility of the intermediary. This responsibility sits with Mr S son who 
didnt satisfy the health requirements needed to board the flight. And Mr S agreed to the 
passengers having responsibility for meeting health requirements when he agreed the terms 
and conditions of the Intermediary. So Mr S son not being able to board the flight wasnt the 
responsibility of the Intermediary.
Mr S then had a phone conversation with the Intermediary where he cancelled the booking 
for that son. And in the email sent to him before the flights were due to take off it explains 
hell get a limited refund. So the contracted operated as it should under the agreed terms. So 
Im satisfied that there is no breach of contract here or material misrepresentation by the 
Intermediary. So Im satisfied that Mr S section 75 claim to BOS should be unsuccessful.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Ss arguments. He says the airline were 
unprofessional and should have tested his son for Covid or given him alternative options. But 
the Airline is responsible for boarding and supplying the flights not the Intermediary. And its 
the intermediary that Mr S paid, not the airline. So I see no persuasive reason for BOS to 
refund him the remaining amount of the ticket cost as the issues here with boarding werent 
the responsibility of the Intermediary.
Mr S says hes been successful in a complaint about Covid he had previously. This may well 
be the case, but we decide cases on their individual merits. And Im satisfied this complaint 
should be unsuccessful.
Lastly I should add that although Mr S paid the Intermediary he wasnt due to be a 
passenger on the flights. And he didnt qualify as a party to the contract here as the parties 
are defined in the contract with the intermediary. And although he funded the contract he 
wasnt a party to the contract as the only parties defined in the contract were the passengers 
(Mr S sons) and the intermediary. So in any event Mr S section 75 claim to BOS couldnt be 
successful. However this point is not significant to my decision making as there was no 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Intermediary in any event.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ss avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that BOS has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr S has said, Im not persuaded 
BOS has treated Mr S unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr S his complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc, 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman