DRN-4082943
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly excluded third party liability cover 
and was charging too much for her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H took out insurance for her dog with Allianz in 2019. On renewal in 2022 Allianz said 
following some aggressive behaviour towards other dogs it would no longer include third 
party liability cover as part of the policy. It said it would review the exclusion in two years 
from the date of the last aggressive incident subject to certain conditions. 
Mrs H thought that the premium should be reduced as a result since it reduced the risks 
underwritten by the policy. She thinks Allianz took advantage of the fact that she would have 
found it difficult to find reasonable alternative cover because of her dogs pre-existing 
conditions. 
Allianz said it wouldnt reduce the premium as the policy would still provide £7,000 of cover 
each policy year and the premium took into account the dogs age, breed, gender, location, 
insurance premium tax and veterinary fee inflation.
Mrs H explained that she was putting a muzzle on the dog while he was off the lead. Allianz 
didnt change its position. It said this wasnt a long-term solution to correct the dogs 
behaviour.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He thought Allianz had treated Mrs H in the same way as it would have any other 
customer in similar circumstances.
As Mrs H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover. That isnt something we would 
generally interfere with. But what I will consider is whether it reached that decision fairly.
The policy says:
For dogs, at renewal we can limit or remove Third Party Liability cover based on a review of 
your dogs behaviour. For example, (but not limited to) any aggressive tendencies shown, 
any incidents where your dog has caused injury to a person/another animal or any health 
conditions which can affect how your dog behaves.
Before renewal of the policy Allianz asked Mrs H to tell it whether the dog had attacked, 
bitten or been aggressive towards another person or animal. Mrs Hs husband told Allianz 
that the dog had bitten another dog resulting in the owner of the other dog making a claim for 
the minor injuries suffered by their dog. The dog had also shown signs of aggression to 
another dog some months previously. 
If an insurer thinks the risk of a policyholder needing to make a claim has gone up for some 
reason, it isnt unreasonable for it to decide to change the policy cover. It isnt in dispute that 
Mrs Hs dog had been aggressive towards other dogs on more than one occasion. Allianz 
has provided us with a copy of its underwriting criteria which says that third party liability will 
be excluded if the dog has shown aggressive behaviour. In other words, if another 
customers dog had a similar history, it would have made the same exclusion for third party 
liability. So, I dont think Allianz treated Mrs H unfairly in deciding not to provide third party 
liability cover going forward.
With regard to the premium, Ive reviewed the information Allianz has sent us about this. As 
it is commercially sensitive information, I wont be sharing that with Mrs H. But I am satisfied 
that the exclusion of third party liability didnt affect the price Allianz charged Mrs H. She may 
well have thought that a reduction in cover should lead to a lower premium but thats not how 
Allianz priced the policy. Taking account of the information from Allianz about how it priced 
Mrs Hs policy, Im satisfied that she hasnt been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman