DRN-3997224
The complaint
Mr R complains about his credit card debt with Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc  
trading as M&S Bank (M&S).
What happened
Mr R has a credit card from M&S. In July 2022, the balance was £9,930 and the limit was 
£11,000. In January 2023, the balance was £11,616.99 and the limit was £11,000. Arrears 
were £1,103.87.
On 13 July 2022, M&S wrote to Mr R and gave two months notice to withdraw the facility 
and end the contract with Mr R  on 13 September 2022.
In October 2022, M&S agreed to a reduced payment plan of £20 per month, with no interest 
to be charged. The agreement ends on 14 April 2023. A default notice was sent to Mr R as 
arrears had built up. Mr R avoided the default by paying in £837 on 21 January 2023 and 
£300 on 3 February 2023.
Mr R complained. He said he doesnt dispute M&S right to end the contract with him if M&S 
wish to do so. But his complaint is that having ended the contract (on 13 September 2022), 
M&S can no longer enforce its terms and conditions, including minimum payments and 
advice to credit reference agencies. He says that he can make the monthly payments at a 
level he wishes and that M&S cannot report his account to credit reference agencies.
M&S said contractual monthly payments should continue, as should reporting to credit 
refence agencies.
Mr R didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said M&S acted 
reasonably. He said that even though M&S had ended their relationship with Mr R, he was 
still bound by the terms and conditions of the account until the debt is repaid in full. 
Therefore, M&S are entitled to ask for contractual minimum payments and report Mr Rs 
account to the credit reference agencies.
Mr R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he says that because M&S have ended their relationship 
with him, they cant enforce the terms and conditions on his account. Specifically, he has 
highlighted M&S letter dated 13 July 2022 which said, In line with our terms and conditions, 
we are giving you two months' notice that we will withdraw your facility and end your contract 
with us on 13 September 2022. Mr R argues that that means M&S cant ask for minimum 
contractual monthly payments, nor report his account to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mr R has said he doesnt dispute that M&S have the right to end their relationship with him  
so, Ive not looked at that aspect.
Looking at M&S letter, it goes on to say, The account(s) will cease on 13 September 2022, 
but, where applicable, will continue to be registered with the credit reference agencies as 
active until the balance is settled. Therefore, I think thats clear  that CRAs will continue to 
be advised of the status of Mr Rs account. And in general terms, all banks, including M&S, 
have an obligation to report accounts to the CRAs.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. These say (at 10.1) We can end 
the agreement by giving you 2 months notice in writingThe agreement will continue until 
you have repaid everything you owe. This says  that the agreement between Mr R and 
M&S continues until he has repaid the money he owes. Im satisfied that is clear.
Therefore, the terms and conditions (in totality) continue to apply until Mr R has repaid the 
debt. And the terms and conditions include the obligation to make minimum monthly 
payments. At page one they say If you entered into your agreement with us before 23 
March 2011, the minimum payment will be the higher of:
A. 2.5% of the full amount you owe as shown on your monthly statement (including interest 
and charges).
B. £5.
If you entered into your agreement with us from 23 March 2011 onwards, the minimum 
payment will be the higher of:
A. The sum of (a) interest for the period from the last statement, (b) any default charges and 
(c) 1% of the full amount you owe as shown on your monthly statement (not including 
interest and default charges).
B. 2.5% of the full amount you owe as shown on your monthly statement (including interest 
and charges).
C. £5.
Therefore, Im satisfied that M&S can ask for monthly contractual payments in line with the 
terms and conditions. And indeed, all of the terms and conditions continue to apply until Mr 
Rs debt has been repaid.
Therefore, Im not going to ask M&S to do anything here  which I know will be a 
disappointment for Mr R. I note that M&S agreement for Mr R to pay a reduced amount of 
£20 per month ends shortly  on 14 April 2023. Id encourage him to engage with M&S at 
that time to come to a mutually satisfactory repayment schedule which works for both he and 
M&S.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman