DRN-3995595
The complaint
Mr F has complained that the layout of a National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) 
branch, and because of how it processed a cash withdrawal, contributed towards him being 
targeted by pickpockets, resulting in £2,000 being stolen from him. 
What happened
Mr F attended a NatWest branch and withdrew £2,000 from the counter. 
Mr F says that the members of staff said aloud to another member of staff how much was 
being withdrawn, counted the money out in full view of the branch and then handed the 
money to Mr F in an envelope.
Mr F says that he then left the bank and visited a coffee shop. After leaving the coffee shop, 
whilst walking along, Mr F was targeted by pickpockets through a distraction technique - 
whereby a person pretended to fall over and feign injury and whilst Mr F kindly helped the 
person up, another person took the money from his coat pocket.
Mr F says that he mustve been targeted in branch, because no one else knew he had the 
money on him, and so he says that NatWest is partly to blame for the theft because it made 
it obvious to observers that he was withdrawing a large amount of cash. Because of this Mr 
F says that NatWest should pay him the money that was stolen from him.
In its response to the complaint, in summary NatWest said that as the theft happened away 
from the banks premises, the theft was outside of its control and therefore it is unable to 
accept responsibility for the loss Mr F suffered. I understand that NatWest did however send 
Mr F two bottles of wine and also paid him £100 for the service he received when raising his 
concerns with the bank.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and in summary, they also said that 
NatWest was not responsible for the theft and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, whilst I sympathise greatly with what happened to Mr F, I also 
dont think it is the case that NatWest should reimburse the money Mr F lost due to being 
pickpocketed either - largely for the same reasons that the adjudicator gave.
Having reviewed the circumstances, given that the theft of cash happened away from the 
branch sometime after Mr F had withdrawn the money, I cant reasonably say that NatWest 
is at fault because Mr F was targeted by pickpockets. And that is the case even if Mr F was 
observed by the pickpockets withdrawing the cash in branch.
In terms of the specific reasons why Mr F says that NatWest is partly to blame, he says this 
is because he could be seen making the withdrawal from the rest of the branch. So Mr F 
says that there is a lack of privacy, and it is that lack of privacy that facilitated the crime. 
Mr F also says that the member of staff processing the withdrawal could clearly be heard 
speaking with another member of staff about how much was being withdrawn. And Ive no 
doubt that the member of staff processing the withdrawal also verbally counted out the 
money in front of Mr F, so Mr F could verify that he was receiving the correct amount. 
In my view, Mr Fs description of the layout of the branch sounds like a fairly standard layout 
for a bank or building society branch in the UK. And Im also mindful that it is largely an 
unavoidable part of withdrawing money from a counter in a bank, that the branch staff may 
verbally say how much is being withdrawn (loud enough so the customer can hear past the 
security screens), to ensure that it is the correct amount. Again, the process that Mr F 
describes sounds like how most banks and building societies process a cash withdrawal 
from a counter  indeed what he describes is pretty much standard industry practice.
Its unfortunately the case for Mr F that as the cash was stolen from Mr F after hed left the 
branch, NatWest cant reasonably be held responsible for what happened to that cash. As 
such, whilst Im sorry to hear about what happened, and I understand why Mr F would like 
NatWest to reimburse him for his loss, in the circumstances I cant reasonably say that it 
should do so, as I dont think it can reasonably be held responsible for his loss. 
Finally, I can see that Mr F has provided suggestions as to how NatWest could improve the 
privacy for customers when in branch. But it is beyond the remit of our service to instruct 
NatWest how it should layout its branches or how it should deal with withdrawal requests in 
general.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.          
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman