DRN-4207642
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled a claim on his motor
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hybrid sports utility vehicle, made by a
large car manufacturer and first registered in 2021.
Mr B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. He was the policyholder. The policy
covered him and two family members as named drivers.
The policy was branded with the name of the car manufacturer. But Admiral was the
insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
Mr B renewed the policy for the year from early June 2022. Any claim for damage (other
than to a windscreen) was subject to an excess of £350.00.
Unfortunately, in late August or early September 2022, an accident damaged the car. Mr B
made a claim to Admiral.
Admiral said it would arrange repair. But by late October 2022, Mr B had complained to
Admiral that it was responsible for poor communication and delay.
By a final response dated mid-December 2022, Admiral upheld the complaint. It said it would
organise repair and it was sending £150.00 compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to us a few days later, asking for a repair and compensation.
our investigators opinion
Unfortunately, Mr B didnt provide information as requested by early March 2023. So, at first,
our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Admirals response had been fair and reasonable.
After Mr B provided information about the impact on him, the investigator changed his mind.
He recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr B had suffered
frustration, distress and inconvenience from i) delay, ii) expected repairs falling through; and
iii) time and effort expended chasing this repair claim.
The investigator recommended that Admiral should increase its compensation offer from
£150.00 to £350.00 total  so an additional £200.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B  
and to Admiral on 12 June 2023. I summarise my findings:
I was reviewing the complaint about Admirals acts or omissions no later than the 
date of its final response in mid-December 2022.
Admirals poor communication and lack of progress towards a repair was below any 
reasonable standard of service.
Id thought about what Mr B had said about the impact on him. I accepted that there 
were many occasions when he interrupted his work to chase Admiral or its repairers 
for information or progress. He found this frustrating, and he felt like giving up.
Admiral hadnt responded to our recent question whether it had arranged repair and 
if not, why not. 
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Admiral, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. unless it has, by a deadline of 28 July 2022, repaired the accident damage to the 
car, pay any repairer Mr B might instruct to repair such damage (in both cases 
subject to the policy excess); and
2. pay Mr B  in addition to the £150.00 already paid an additional £200.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mr B nor Admiral has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. One of those rules is that  before we can investigate a consumers 
complaint about a business  the consumer must first have made that complaint to the 
business and waited for up to eight weeks for a final response.
It follows that we cant usually investigate complaints about acts or omissions about which 
the consumer hasnt yet made a complaint to the business  including acts or omissions 
after the final response. With that in mind, Im reviewing the complaint about Admirals acts 
or omissions no later than the date of its final response in mid-December 2022.
From Admirals file, I find that the circumstances of the accident were that Mr Bs vehicle
changed lanes and hit a third partys vehicle. I find that Mr Bs vehicle suffered damage to its
front passenger side but that it remained driveable.
Im satisfied that Mr B made his claim to Admiral no later than 1 September 2022. Thats the
date Admiral started its claim notes. The final response said that Mr B reported the accident
in late October 2022, but I find that is incorrect.
From the claim notes, I find that Admiral had told Mr B that it had instructed a repairer. But
when he or his wife contacted that repairer about a week after the accident, it said it had no
instructions from Admiral.
In late October 2022 (around the time Mr B first complained) Admiral said it had instructed
the repairer. But again the repairer said it had no instructions from Admiral.In early November 2022, Mr B followed up his complaint. Admiral instructed the repairer, but
it asked Admiral to redirect the work. I accept Mr Bs recollection that Admiral gave him the
name of another repairer, but it didnt contact him.
I consider that Admirals poor communication and lack of progress towards a repair was
below any reasonable standard of service.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about the impact on him. I accept that there were
many occasions when he interrupted his work to chase Admiral or its repairers for
information or progress. He found this frustrating, and he felt like giving up.
Putting things right
I consider that it is fair to direct Admiral to pay Mr B  in addition to the £150.00 already paid
 an additional £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
As Ive said, Im not looking at any complaint about Admirals further acts or omissions after
mid-December 2022, such as its failure to get a repairer to contact Mr B after the final
response or in February 2023.
Nevertheless, Admiral hasnt responded to our question whether it has arranged repair  and 
if not, why not. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct that unless Admiral has by a deadline 
of 28 July 2022, repaired the accident damage to the car, Admiral shall pay any repairer Mr 
B might instruct to repair such damage (in both cases subject to the policy excess). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. unless it has, by a deadline of 28 July 2022, repaired the accident damage to the car, 
pay any repairer Mr B might instruct to repair such damage (in both cases subject to 
the policy excess); and
2. pay Mr B  in addition to the £150.00 already paid an additional £200.00 for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman