DRN-3645582
The complaint
Miss M complains QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined her home insurance claim. 
What happened
In November 2021 Miss M made a subsidence claim on her QIC home insurance policy. The 
insurer repaired a few drains at her property. But it declined the subsidence claim. It didnt 
accept there was evidence of subsidence. Instead it was of the opinion cracks were the 
result of thermal movement.
In April 2022 QIC responded to her complaint. It maintained its position that the damage 
wasnt related to subsidence. It said it was instead caused by thermal movement  
something excluded by her policy  and the replacement of a window. It felt damp was 
caused by a roof defect rather than subsidence.
Miss Ms unhappy as she says the property is suffering from mould, a floor is damaged and 
there is movement to brickwork. This is causing difficulties for her and affecting her familys 
health. She wants QIC to find out whats wrong with the property and correct it  by sending 
relevant experts. In June 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She said QIC had 
fairly declined the claim. Miss M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Miss M or QIC have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
I accept the property has some issues. But its for a policyholder, like Miss M, to show a loss 
claimed for is covered by their insurance. And so for me to say QIC unfairly declined her 
claim Id need to be persuaded the damage shes claimed for is most likely caused by one of 
the insured events (like subsidence, storm, escape of water) covered by her policy. But 
based on what Ive been provided with I cant say that is the case.  
QICs provided a report from a relevant expert that concludes cracks at the property are 
caused by thermal movement. It says any cracks are only minor, consistent with general 
property movement, rather than subsidence. Having seen various photos I cant say thats 
an unreasonable assessment. I havent seen evidence of any significant cracks or continuing 
movement. QIC feels any distortion to the propertys gable wall is a historical issue. Miss M 
hasnt provided anything that provides an alternative assessment.  
Overall Miss M hasnt provided anything from an expert, such as a surveyor or structural 
engineer, to support her position that the property is suffering from subsidence. Shes 
referred to a coal mining inspector visiting her home. She reported some of his comments. 
But she hasnt provided any supporting evidence - for example a letter or report. 
Ive seen an environmental report that references historical mining in the area. I accept it 
could be an issue. But again I havent been provided with enough to persuade me it probably 
is causing subsidence to her property  or that QIC should make further subsidence 
investigations. 
QIC doesnt accept damp and mould is the result of an insured event  like an escape of 
water. Ive considered Miss Ms comments on this. I accept it must be concerning and 
frustrating for her. But unfortunately, she hasnt provided enough to persuade me the cause 
is most likely something covered by her policy. 
If Miss M can provide any further evidence of the causes of damage to her property, Id 
expect QIC to consider it. But as it stands, she hasnt so far, made me think QICs decision 
to decline her claim is unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint or requiring QIC Europe 
Ltd to do anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman