The complaint
Miss W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003 when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Miss W complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the claim should not be upheld. 
Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
Miss W added through her representative that the PPI was added to the credit card account 
without her specific permission and that she had excellent sick pay, so she didnt need PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss W, so Ill explain 
why.
Miss W complains that she did not give her permission to HSBC to add PPI to her account. 
She says she applied for the credit card during a telephone call and that the forms were sent 
to her in the post to sign and return. HSBC does not have Miss Ws original PPI application 
but it sent us a sample of the application form which it would have sent to its consumers 
around the time of Miss Ws sale. I can see from the sample application form that Miss W 
most likely would have signed a box headed Optional Cardholder Repayment Protector to 
say she wanted PPI. At the bottom of the box, it says Please debit my card account with the 
premiums and below that there is a box for Miss W to sign. I think her signature in this box 
would have been her consent for PPI to be added to her account. 
I can also see that after signing the PPI box, Miss W would have then signed and dated the 
application form separately for the credit card itself. And I can reasonably assume she saw 
and read the form at the time she signed it. So as she had a clear choice on the form, I think 
the PPI was shown to be an optional product. 
Miss W says the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, HSBC didnt recommend the 
policy to Miss W; it just gave her information about PPI. But the information needed to be 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
HSBC told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Miss 
W would have received some documents with the application form that would have given her 
DRN-1108106the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its also possible HSBC 
didnt do things properly when making sure the information provided on the policy was good 
enough.
That being said even if HSBC did give all the information Miss W needed to make an 
informed choice, I think she probably would have taken the policy because at the time of the 
sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
I dont think she would have been caught by any of the main things not covered by
the policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a successful
claim. So I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would have
put her off from buying PPI.
Miss W told us she could rely on her parents and would have received good sick pay
from her employer. But I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than her
employee benefits if she made a successful claim and it was useful in case she could
not rely on her parents help at some unknown point after the date of sale.
I dont know how HSBC explained the PPI cost and benefits to Miss W. But theres
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 2003. So I dont think that
more detailed information about cost would have put her off from buying PPI.
So I dont think it would have made a difference to Miss Ws choice to buy PPI if she had had 
better information. I think she chose to have it because she wanted it. And I think it could 
have been of benefit to her. 
Taking everything into account, I think Miss W consented to the optional policy being added 
to her account. I think the information was probably clear enough for her to make a choice to 
buy it. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman