DRN-3475290
The Complaint
Mrs L and Mr W say that GE Money Home Finance Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or
reasonably deal with their claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in relation to the 
purchase of two holiday products.
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mrs L and Mr W bought membership of two holiday clubs in April 1992 (Club 
One) and September 1993 (Club Two).
Unhappy with what had happened during the course of those sales, Mrs L and Mr W  using 
a representative (LF)  wrote to GE Money in February 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to make 
claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The Letter of Claim made these claims for a number of reasons  which it isnt practical to
list here. But the upshot of the Letter was that Mrs L and Mr W would not have made their
purchases but for the mistakes and misrepresentations at those times.
As it doesnt look like GE Money responded to the claims, a complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in September 2019.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator  who shared her answer with both
sides in March 2022 rejecting the complaint.
Mrs L and Mr W, who were now represented by a different third-party (M), disagreed and
asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving the investigator any reasons why. The
investigator started that process and gave both sides time to submit new evidence
and/or arguments.
As the deadline set by the investigator had passed without her revisiting the complaint, it 
was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 5 April 2022. In summary, I didnt think there was 
the evidence to conclude that GE Money had helped to finance the purchase of Club One 
membership. And for that reason, I also couldnt say that Mrs L and Mr W were eligible to 
complain about GE Money in relation to that purchase. As for their purchase of Club Two 
membership, it looked like GE Money had helped to finance that purchase. But I wasnt 
satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service had the jurisdiction to consider 
the Section 75 claim given its timing. And I didnt think Section 140A of the CCA applied to 
the credit agreement Mrs L and Mr W entered into to help make that purchase.
I gave both sides until 3 May 2022 to respond with new evidence and/or arguments.
GE Money agreed with what I had to say about the claims in relation to the purchase of 
Mrs L and Mr Ws Club One membership. But, having questioned whether this complaint 
was directed at the right business, it thought that the Financial Ombudsman Service did 
have the jurisdiction to consider the Section 75 claim in relation to the purchase of the Club 
Two membership.
Mrs L and Mr W didnt respond to my PD  nor did their representative, M. And as the 
deadline I set for responses to my provisional findings has now been and gone, Im ready to 
consider this complaint for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think theres a reason to uphold this complaint as far as the 
relevant merits of it are concerned.
But before I get to the merits, Ill set out what I cant consider as part of this Final Decision. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to deal with every complaint it receives. Its 
bound by rules that set out the types of complaints it can look at. Those rules are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP). 
Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It covers
areas like whos making the complaint, what its about and which business its about. And
under those rules, the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint if it is
made against a financial business covered by its jurisdiction.
The Section 75 and Section 140A Claims: Club One Membership
As I said in my PD, GE Money cant find any records of a loan used by Mrs L and Mr W to 
help finance their purchase of Club One membership. And while they have provided a copy 
of their membership application form, they still havent provided a copy of an executed credit 
agreement (signed by the parties to it), a welcome letter, a statement of account or any other 
evidence that a loan from GE Money was used to help finance this purchase.
For that reason, therefore, I still cant say that GE Money helped to finance this purchase. 
And that means I still cant see why its responsible for answering Mr Mrs L and Mr Ws CCA 
claims in relation to this purchase or that theyre eligible to make a complaint about 
GE Money as a result.
The Section 75 Claim: Club Two Membership
Mrs L and Mr W have provided an executed credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) dated 
September 1993 along with a letter from October that year confirming that some of the funds 
had been paid to the business that supplied their Club Two membership. 
However, according to the Credit Agreement, Mrs L and Mr Ws loan was provided by 
First National Bank PLC  which, as the Companies House website confirms1, went on to 
become GE Money Home Finance Limited. And as I said in my PD, GE Money Home 
Finance Limited was only under the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction up until 
1 https://find-and-update.company-information.service.gov.uk/company/0059298631 March 2016. 
So, as Mrs L and Mr Ws Section 75 claim was only made in 2019, it isnt one the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can consider either.
The Merits of this Complaint 
The Section 140A Claim: Club Two Membership
If a credit agreement started before 6 April 2007, it is possible to make a claim under
Section 140A in relation to that credit agreement provided it ended after 6 April 2008.
As I said in my PD, GE Money cant find any records of Mrs L and Mr Ws account. And in an 
email in October 2021, it said that, in line with its retention policy, any records may have 
been destroyed because the Credit Agreement ended more than six years before it carried 
out its search for their account. Whats more, as the Credit Agreement was signed by 
Mrs L and Mr W in September 1993 and set to run for a three-year term, it still seems 
unlikely to me that it ended after 6 April 2008. 
So, as I still dont think Section 140A applies to the Credit Agreement, I dont think 
GE Money has to do anything further as far as this particular claim is concerned.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to reject this complaint insofar as it relates to 
GE Moneys handling of Mrs L and Mr Ws Section 140A claim in relation to their purchase of 
Club Two membership. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman