DRN-3309709
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr S complain that, in May 2006, HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account (PBA).
What happened
Mrs M had had a fee-free bank account with HSBC since 1990. In May 2006 Mrs M and 
Mr S transferred their mortgage from another lender to HSBC. At the same time, they 
opened a joint HSBC bank account which was a Select PBA. This cost £12.95 per month 
and came with various benefits, including free worldwide travel insurance and free cash 
withdrawals abroad, a discount on overdraft interest, £100 mortgage cashback, and various 
travel and shopping discounts offers.
Mrs M and Mr S say HSBC told them they had to take the PBA in order to get the mortgage.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs M and Mr S didnt agree, and so the matter hcame to me to make a decision.
When I looked at the case, I reached the same overall conclusion as the adjudicator, but my 
reasoning was different; and I also thought it would be helpful to clarify the facts I would be 
relying on. So I wrote a provisional decision, to make sure that everyone had a fair chance to 
comment on the case. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank 
accounts. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The main problem is that this all happened about 15 years ago, and it wouldnt 
be surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened that long 
ago. So it may not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember as 
happening.
It wouldnt be fair to make HSBC prove it didnt act wrongly  its a long-
standing principle that someone doesnt usually have to prove they are 
innocent. Instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that 
HSBC probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind 
of evidence.
There were potential benefits with the PBA that might have attracted Mrs M 
and Mr S at the time, even if subsequently they didnt take advantage of them. 
Theyve said they had travelled to Europe a couple of times before the account 
started, so they might have anticipated doing so again and using the travel 
insurance and free currency withdrawals abroad. They might have anticipated 
using the overdraft facility with discounted interest rates. And they may have 
been attracted to some of the other benefits.
So I cant fairly say that the only likely reason they took the PBA was 
because they were wrongly told it was the only way to get the mortgage.
Overall, my current view is that I dont have strong enough evidence to show 
that HSBC acted wrongly in the way Mrs M and Mr S now believe.
Ive thought about other ways the PBA may have been mis-sold, but I dont see 
that these apply. I dont have evidence that HSBC recommended the PBA  
that is, in the sense of saying it had assessed Mr M and Mr Ss personal 
circumstances and was telling them this was a good fit. So, instead, it needed to 
point out the main costs and benefits. From the information likely to have been 
given to Mrs M and Mr S, I think this would have been enough for them to 
understand what they were agreeing to, and to decide if it fitted their needs.
In response, HSBC said they had nothing further to add at this stage. Mrs M said she didnt 
agree with me. She said that, just becuase they had previusly travelled abroad didnt mean 
they would use their mortage money for trips abroad and that it would be foolish to do this. 
She says they tried to get an overdraft but were refused, so the discounted rate was not of 
actual use to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the points Mrs M has made, but I still have the problem that there isnt, in my 
view, strong enough evidence to show that HSBC said they had to have the PBA to get the 
mortgage. I say this is for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision.  And, even if Mrs M 
is saying they wouldnt have decided to travel again, and were unsuccessful in applying for 
an overdraft, I still cant say that the only explanation is that HSBC told them they had to 
have the PBA. 
Because there isnt strong enough evidence, I cant fairly say HSBC acted wrongly in the 
way Mrs M and Mr S believe happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman