DRN-3137441
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Allianz Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under her business 
interruption insurance policy after her business was impacted by Covid-19. 
What happened
Mrs B held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. She claimed on her policy 
after her business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
She said she had lost stock and takings due to being forced to close. 
Allianz said Mrs Bs claim wasnt covered by the policy. It said the loss of stock wasnt 
covered because that cover only applies if there was a breakdown in refrigeration 
machinery. Allianz said that business interruption insurance generally covers business 
interruption due to damage and Covid-19 wasnt considered damage, so that part of the 
policy didnt provide cover either. Allianz said the extensions for denial of access and loss of 
attraction also didnt provide cover because they also required the business interruption to 
be as a result of damage. They added that, although the policy included an extension for 
specified illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of the illnesses listed in the policy. 
When Allianz continued to refuse to pay Mrs Bs claim she brought her complaint to us. She 
said her business had been forced to close and so thought her policy should provide cover 
for her claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage, as defined in the policy. He found that the policy 
covered business interruption as a result of a specified list of illnesses but that didnt include 
Covid-19. 
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said her business had been 
forced to close through no fault of her own. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Bs business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mrs Bs claim.
Loss of stock
This part of the policy says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured up to the Sum Insured against Damage 
occurring during the Period of Insurance to the Property Insured by deterioration 
or putrefaction solely and directly due to:
A a rise or fall in temperature as a result of:
i damage to or a fault in the refrigeration machinery
ii failure of the public supply of electricity at the terminal ends of the Electricity 
Authoritys service feeders at the Premises
iii accidental failure of the electrical installation connecting the refrigeration 
machinery to the Electricity Authoritys service feeders
B the action of the refrigerant or refrigerant fumes which have escaped from the 
refrigeration machinery.
For loss of stock to be covered, the loss would need to be due to issues with the refrigeration 
machinery. As the loss of stock was due to enforced closure as a result of the Governments 
response to the pandemic, this doesnt provide cover for Mrs Bs loss of stock claim. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy covers business interruption or 
interference as a result of damage. The policy defines damage as:
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1 and 7 of this Policy.
Sections 1 and 7 of the policy are Trade Contents and Buildings. 
Therefore, in order for this section to provide cover, there would need to be destruction, 
damage or loss insured under the sections for trade contents or buildings. As Covid-19 didnt 
cause damage to Mrs Bs trade contents or buildings, this doesnt cover her claim.
Denial of access
The cover provided by the policy is extended by various extensions. This extension says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with 
the Business in consequence of Damage caused by any Event covered under 
Section 1 Trade Contents to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Premises, whether the 
Insureds property or the Buildings at the Premises be Damaged or not.
This extension requires the use of or access to Mrs Bs premises to have been prevented or 
hindered due to damage, as defined in the policy, to property in her businesss immediate 
vicinity. As I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in 
the immediate vicinity of Mrs Bs premises that prevented or hindered the use of her 
premises, this extension doesnt provide cover either. 
Loss of attraction
Any claim resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in 
consequence of accidental loss or destruction of or damage (other than 
obstruction of roads, streets and the like by weather or climatic conditions) to 
property within one mile radius of the Premises which:
a prevents or hinders the use of the Premises, or
b causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the Premises,As I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused accidental loss or destruction or 
damage to property within one mile of Mrs Bs premises that prevented or hindered use of 
her premises or caused a fall in the number of customers attracted to her business, then Im 
afraid this extension doesnt provide cover either. 
Specified illness
The relevant part of this extension covers
Loss as a direct result of:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence 
of a Specified Illness
c any occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the 
Premises
The policy has a specific definition for Specified Illness which it says is food and drink 
poisoning and a list of covered illness. However, Covid-19 isnt on that list. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Bs policy is not like this  rather it sets 
out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of 
the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new illnesses and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for closure due to the Governments response to the 
national pandemic. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for as she was forced to close her 
business through no fault of her own. However, having considered the matter very carefully, 
I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman