DRN-2419229
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) has wrongly handled a 
chargeback request she made, leaving her in financial difficulties. To put things right, shed 
like Halifax to refund her and pay her compensation.
What happened
On 25 July 2020, Miss R made a purchase online from a third party. However, she then 
received a text from Halifax saying the payment was declined, so she made the transaction 
again.
On 27 July, Miss R discovered the payment had actually gone out twice. Halifax advised 
Miss R to contact the third party  but in the meantime, it provided a temporary refund of one 
of the transactions.
On 3 August, the third party gave Miss R a refund of £265 (having taken off a further £15 for 
postage). Following this, Halifax sent a letter dated 29 September, to say that as Miss R had 
been refunded, the money would be taken back out of her account.
It appears this was in error, as it would mean the payment was taken twice. On 2 October, 
Halifax paid Miss R £150 to acknowledge this, and refunded the £265. The third party also 
refunded the £15 postage.
Ultimately, two items arrived from the third party. Miss R has advised she sent the duplicate 
back. However, she feels shes been caused financial difficulties because of Halifaxs 
handling of it all.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but she didnt think Halifax had 
behaved unreasonably. She referred to a copy of Miss Rs debit card transaction history, 
which shows a payment for £280 on 20 July at 10.25am was declined. This was followed by 
a text at 10.26am, which explains the payment was declined and that Miss R should attempt 
it again after ten minutes. The transaction history shows she made a further payment of 
£280 on 20 July at 1.31pm and this was successful. 
The following day, Miss R made a further purchase, again for £280. This was declined. But 
on 23 July, after another attempt, it went through. Our investigator didnt think there was 
anything to suggest this payment was taken because the third party was keeping details to 
keep repeating transactions. 
Ultimately, Miss R had a full refund from the third party, including the £15 postage. In the 
interim, she had a temporary credit from Halifax.
Our investigator thought this was reasonable. Miss R disagreed, so her complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree that Miss R has suffered a loss. Shes been fully refunded in a 
timely manner, and also received her goods. Halifax responded quickly when she alerted it 
to the issue. It gave a temporary refund, which it was entitled to take back when the third 
party also paid it.
I agree with our investigators conclusions. I appreciate that this situation was frustrating. But 
I think Halifax behaved correctly and fairly. So, I am not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that there is nothing further I require Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) to 
do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman