DRN-3071076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Vitality Health Limited wouldnt cover Mrs As claim for treatment 
under her private medical insurance cover.
What happened
Mr and Mrs As policy was taken out on a moratorium basis. That meant that any pre-
existing conditions in the five years before taking out the policy wouldnt be covered, unless 
there was a two-year trouble-free period after the policy started.
In October 2020, Mrs A had injections in her back. Mrs A said this treatment caused her 
further pain and other symptoms. She made a claim for physio. 
Vitality looked into claim payments it had previously made for Mrs A. It thought it had paid for 
claims in error that related to Mrs As existing condition of multiple sclerosis (MS), which fell 
under her moratorium. It told Mrs A it wouldnt cover any further treatment relating to MS 
because it fell under the moratorium, but also because it was a chronic condition.
Mrs A said the symptoms she was experiencing werent related to MS. Vitality said it wanted 
to write to her specialists to confirm this before approving any treatment, but Mrs A didnt 
give her written consent and cancelled her cover. She brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Vitality had been 
entitled to ask Mrs As specialists for more information, before accepting the claim.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has taken the time to explain her symptoms, and the impact of these on her life. I 
wont list these here, but its apparent that Mrs A has been in a great deal of pain and her life 
has been significantly impacted by her symptoms.
Mrs A doesnt appear to dispute that her condition of MS falls under the moratorium, or that 
its a chronic condition. The issue is that Mrs A doesnt think the symptoms she experienced 
after October 2020 were related to MS, and so she thinks Vitality ought to have accepted her 
claim. 
As I understand it, after the injections took place, Mrs A saw some specialists who thought 
her symptoms were related to MS. 
Mrs A then had an MRI scan. She has provided a text message from a Dr P (consultant 
neurologist). The message is dated 19 November 2020, and says an MRI scan had shown 
no definitive new MS type abnormalities.
Mrs A has also provided an email from Dr P dated 11 December 2020. Dr P said the most 
important issue to exclude was that the weakness was an MS relapse, and it was good news 
that the MRI scan had excluded this.
I dont think this evidence was enough information for Vitality to be satisfied that none of Mrs 
As symptoms related to MS, and that they were caused by the injections shed had in 
October 2020. I also note that Mrs A advised Vitality in early January 2020 that her doctors 
had kept telling her that her symptoms were related to MS.
Mrs A was experiencing a number of symptoms, and Vitality has made the reasonable point 
that some of those were known to be common MS symptoms. Its also the case that Mrs A 
had undergone quite extensive treatment for joint pain since 2018, and so Vitality wanted 
further information before accepting any further claims for treatment, to make sure her claim 
wasnt for a chronic condition.
I think it was reasonable for Vitality to request more information from Mrs As treating 
specialists before it accepted her claim. The form was sent to Mrs A to give her consent for 
this on 20 January 2021.
Mrs A said she wanted Vitality to contact one of her specialists, but she didnt know when 
hed have availability to provide his opinion. She wanted Vitality to pause her membership 
until that time. Vitality refused to do this, which it was entitled to do. As our investigator has 
explained, an insured is required to pay the premium in return for the cover under the policy. 
The policy terms dont give the option for the cover to be paused.
Mrs A says she gave Vitality her consent over the phone to contact her specialists, but I 
think it was appropriate for Vitality to request this in writing. Although Mrs A says she was 
happy for Vitality to contact her specialists as she knew her symptoms werent related to MS, 
unfortunately she didnt give Vitality permission to do so, and instead decided to cancel her 
cover. That was of course her decision. 
We asked Mrs A if she wanted Vitality to reinstate her cover (if that happened, shed have to 
pay the backdated premiums), so that it can consider the matter further. However, Mrs A 
didnt say that she wanted this, so we didnt ask Vitality to consider this option.
Overall, Im satisfied Vitality handled the claim reasonably. I agree with our investigator that 
Vitality was entitled to ask for more information before accepting Mrs As claim, but she 
didnt provide her consent for it to do so. Her cover has now ended.
Mrs A is also unhappy with conversations that took place between her and a Vitality staff 
member. She thinks that staff members judgement was clouded by her own experiences of 
MS.  Unfortunately, those calls werent recorded and so I cant comment on what was 
discussed during those calls. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman