DRN-3881952
The complaint
Mr E complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan.
DC Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr E first discussed these matters with DCFL around mid-August 2017. A transfer analysis 
and fact-find were prepared and a suitability letter issued by DCFL on 29 August 2017. On 
4 September 2017 Mr E said hed read and understood the recommendations made in 
DCFLs suitability report. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr Es funds were transferred to a personal pension in early December 2017 following 
DCFLs advice.
At the time of the advice, Mr E was concerned about what these announcements by his 
employer meant for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr E was 49 years old and in good health. He was married to Mrs E and they had 
two children one of whom was still in education. They owned a home valued at 
approximately £240,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £82,000. The 
mortgage had 12 years left to run. 
Mr E earned around £42,000 per year and an extra £4,000 per year from a buy-to-let 
property he owned. Mrs E also worked and earned over £20,000 per year. She had 
her own public sector pension, and two other small private pensions totaling around 
£15,000. They had savings of £5,400 in deposit accounts.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es BSPS was approximately 
£387,726 (later, this was updated to £400,369) and the normal retirement age (NRA) 
was 65. 
DCFL said Mr E wanted to retire early if possible, at around the age of 55 but 
perhaps take a part-time job to supplement his income.
DCFL advised him to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension 
plan. DCFL said this would allow Mr E to achieve his objectives.
Mr E accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr E 
complained to DCFL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the BSPS. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr E had at the time. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. However, they thought if properly advised, Mr E would have 
opted to be put into the PPF.
Neither party agreed as Mr Es representatives said he should have been advised to transfer 
to the BSPS2. And DCFL still doesnt agree it did anything wrong.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about the complaint in December 2022 where I invited 
the parties to submit any further information or evidence they wanted me to consider. I said I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and that compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
Ive had replies from both parties, so Im now able to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of  DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Es best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. I think Mr E should have been advised to 
remain where he was with his pension and to transfer to the BSPS2.
Financial viability 
DCFL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, DCFL used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. It implies this was because so little was known 
about the new BSPS2 scheme at the time. But I dont think this is right and I think DCFL 
should have waited a short time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. A few weeks before this advice, which was dated 29 August 2017, BSPS members 
had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new 
scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter was put on a microsite 
that had been set up to support BSPS members and I think DCFL would have been following 
these events closely because it was advising many similar clients. 
So, I think its reasonable to say that after mid-August 2017 DCFL should have waited for 
these new details (BSPS2) to emerge as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer 
an option. And so using the existing scheme, rather than the new one, to make comparisons 
with, wasnt giving Mr E the best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do.
Ive read what DCFL said about some of these comments following me issuing the PD. It 
says the BSPS2 was not guaranteed to proceed at the time of the advice and if Mr E 
waited until BSPS2 commenced in March 2018, he would have lost a generous CETV, 
which could well have been reduced in the future. However, as Ill show below, the main 
issue here is that transferring out wasnt financially viable in as much as Mr Es pension 
benefits in the long term were most likely to be reduced by doing so. 
Also, whether or not DCFL can accurately say the CETV was more valuable at that point is 
open to question. The implication that it could have reduced in the future is conjecture  and 
of course, the opposite may have been possible: the CETV may have increased. In any 
event, as I said when I issued the PD, DCFL should have waited for details of the new 
scheme to emerge as everything was pointing to that being imminent. 
Ive also noted DCFLs comments about us using an over reliance on critical yield rates in 
general when assessing the suitability of pension transfers and I understand the point being 
made. But as Ill show, the critical yield is only a part of a range of different things which help 
show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. I think its also fair to say that despite some 
uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and 
PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme.Nevertheless, all DCFLs subsequent documentation  and the suitability letter in particular - 
referred to comparisons between the BSPS and the merits of Mr E transferring out to a 
personal pension plan. I think its also important to say that in making these comparisons, 
DCFL itself acknowledged, during its advice, that the growth rates required to match the 
benefits of Mr Es existing pension scheme were high. It said, for example, the financial 
benefits were unlikely to be matched, let alone exceeded, by transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement. This is because in its suitability letter DCFL said, the critical yield 
required is high and it would be very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to 
match the benefits you are giving up. 
DCFL explained the critical yield required to match his existing benefits in the BSPS at the 
age of 65 was 7.83%; and it was 16.64% compared against retirement at the age of 55. I 
agree that these yields are high, and in my view, they should have shown DCFL that 
transferring Mr Es DB scheme out to a personal plan was highly likely to produce lower 
pension benefits in the longer term.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was 4.3% per year for 15 years to retirement (calculated to age 65). 
And calculated against retiring at 55, the discount rate was 3.1%. As these discount rates 
are well below the critical yields DCFL had told Mr E about, I think they show he was very 
unlikely to grow his pension by enough to get anywhere near the critical yield rates Ive set 
out above.
However, Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle 
projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, as DCFL 
assessed Mr Es attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced, I think a figure at around the mid-point of 
these projections was most relevant. Again, this was well below the critical yield figures for 
the BSPS, so I think this too showed that achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, upon 
transferring out just wasnt likely. 
Ive noted too, that DCFL said in its transfer analysis that in order to purchase an annuity to 
provide benefits of an equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at the age of 65, the 
funds required would be over £966,000, which is much higher than his CETV. 
So, all these things, in my view, provide a powerful indication of the real value Mr E would 
lose if he transferred out to a personal pension.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. DCFL said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.78% per year if Mr E took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF and 4.33% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with 
the PPF and DCFL itself says Mr E wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also 
important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal 
pension would have further reduced the likely growth  our investigator set out what these 
charges were in their view. So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, DCFLs figures, shown 
in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, showed that transferring to a personal 
pension plan would mean Mr E would receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, 
when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, DCFL should have waited and 
recalculated the comparisons for Mr E when the situation with BSPS2 became clear  we 
know this was imminent. 
That transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr E would receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term was supported by DCFLs own statements in the suitability letter, 
which Ive referred to above. And I think its safe to say the same can be said broadly of the 
BSPS2 scheme, although we dont have corresponding analysis here to show it. 
Of course, according to DCFL itself, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. 
Rather, DCFL said Mr E had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility and other needs
In its suitability letter DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it 
said were Mr Es objectives which Ive summarised:
Mr E wanted to retire early and pay his mortgage off
He wanted greater flexibility in accessing cash and to access control over his pension 
He lacked trust in his employer
The death benefits were inflexible and didnt match what Mr E wanted
So, it seems that DCFL also recommended the transfer for the flexibility and control it offered 
to Mr E. I have therefore considered all of these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / paying off his mortgage
DCFL said Mr E wanted to retire early. However, whilst I dont doubt that Mr E might have 
genuinely hoped to do this, Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than 
something he aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I 
say this because Mr E was only 49 years old and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete 
plans for retirement at that point. Ive also noted that Mr E could have retired early as a 
member of the BSPS2 and the PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Es retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I think DCFL 
should have more comprehensively assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst 
being a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. As Ive said, DCFL chose to make all the 
comparisons with the existing BSPS benefits rather than wait for the BSPS2 details which 
were becoming available; details of BSPS2 were emerging at the time and early retirement 
with the PPF was already something that could be calculated. 
In its response to Mr Es complaint, DCFL said the following about retiring early: 
under the BSPS this would not be possible, as he would suffer a 30% 
reduction in pension to access benefits at 55.In my view, this was somewhat misleading and the way this was depicted shows the nature 
of how the advice was pitched to Mr E at the time. In fact, retiring early was possible from 
both the BSPS2 and the PPF and if actuarial reductions caused by accessing the pension 
early was a genuine concern, then Mr E could have been advised to wait a little longer 
before accessing his benefits under either scheme. If hed chosen to plan his retirement 
under the DB scheme to, say, 60  still five years below the NRA  then this would have 
resulted in a far less reduction in the pension benefits.
So, I think DCFL portrayed early retirement from these types of scheme in a negative 
dimension despite the guarantees and benefits found in them. 
DCFL also linked accessing the benefits early to Mr E paying off his mortgage. But again, 
there was no real detail around this and certainly nothing to show why irreversibly exiting a 
DB pension scheme was necessary to pay his mortgage off in Mr Es circumstances. 
The fact-find for example, shows his residential mortgage as having £82,000 outstanding 
with 12 years remaining. But Mr E couldnt access his pension for almost 6 more years 
anyway. And Ive seen nothing to show that his mortgage wasnt being reduced in the 
normal way as it was shown as being a repayment type. So, by the very earliest Mr E could 
access his pension (at 55), there would be far less owing on the mortgage. DCFL did not 
assess what the outstanding amount would be or why he couldnt just continue to pay it 
down as planned under the terms hed taken it out under. It seems to me that many other 
options were available to him if paying off his mortgage was essential to Mr E. He and Mrs E 
were both in work and earned incomes that were not insignificant, and they had some 
modest income from elsewhere to add to their salaries. So I think it would have been 
possible to overpay the mortgage and thus reduce it in the remaining years. Using up Mr Es 
retirement savings to achieve this just wasnt necessary.
Ive considered DCFLs points it submitted after my PD relating to Mr Es mortgage. It said 
the mortgage subsequently rose in 2020, rather than being paid down. It also said he sold 
his buy-to-let property in 2019. As these relate to substantially after the advice, they are not 
relevant in my view. There was no indication of these things in 2017 which I can see.
Flexibility
DCFL said Mr E wanted to have an annual income of around £2,000 per month in his 
retirement. However, as Ive explained above, retirement for Mr E, aged 49 years old, was 
most likely still quite a few years away. In my view, what income hed need as a retiree could 
only really be an estimate at this point. Nevertheless, I still dont see any evidence to support 
a recommendation for Mr E to transfer away from a DB scheme to a personal pension for 
this reason.
Even if I were to accept £2,000 was roughly what Mr E needed to fund a retirement  which 
in all likelihood was probably many years away  Ive seen nothing that shows the BSPS2 
wouldnt have helped meet these needs anyway. For example, in its transfer analysis DCFL 
said that Mr Es estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £23,619 per year under BSPS 
at the age of 65. At the age of 55 it was £12,777. No figures were provided if taking a tax-
free lump sum. 
However, Mr E told DCFL that he intended to seek part-time work if he stopped working in 
the steel industry - and I think at the comparatively young age of 55 this would have been a 
realistic prospect. He also had income from a buy-to-let investment and indeed, some 
£25,000 equity in that property at the time, if he wanted to sell it instead. Ive also referred to 
Mrs Es income which doesnt seem to have been considered. She too had pensions, 
including a public sector one which I think would have been a DB scheme. Its also reasonable to point out that Mr and Mrs Es children would have been in their late 20s or 
early 30s depending on when Mr E took retirement.
In addition to all this, I dont think DCFL promoted the additional income and flexibility Mr E 
would enjoy at retirement because he had also recently joined his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. He had already accrued a significant sum in this pension and 
both he and his employer would be contributing to this for at least another six years, even if 
retiring very early. In my view, he would have been in a good position: the DB pension 
(BSPS2) was guaranteed and index linked; and the DC pension had the added flexibility 
were his circumstances to change. I think this fitted in very well with Mr Es likely financial 
needs going forward. DCFL failed to adequately account for this when advising him.
With all this in mind, I think there was every reason to believe that Mr Es income needs in 
retirement would be met through a combination of his pension(s), his and Mrs Es other 
earnings and the cost reductions of their family changes. In short, there was no need to 
transfer to a personal pension plan to achieve this.
DCFL also referred to Mr E being able to access the maximum tax-free cash via a personal 
pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal 
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of 
the two schemes are calculated differently. But DCFL should have been telling Mr E at the 
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from 
the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement 
years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr E faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. Again, I also come back to Mr Es age at the time and the fact that these 
assumptions about what Mr E would or wouldnt need when he retired, were effectively a 
best guess at such a relatively early stage.
In summary, I therefore think Mr Es circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring 
from a DB scheme in this case, such as BSPS2, and drawing this pension in the way it was 
originally intended. I think DCFLs advice should have reflected this.
Death benefits 
DCFL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr E died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr E. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what 
extent Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr E was married, so this made the death benefits in BSPS2 very relevant to their situation. 
In this context, I think the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme (BSPS2) 
were underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been 
useful to Mrs E if he predeceased her. I dont think DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon 
Mr Es passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I dont think the advice should have 
implied his wife / children would benefit more from a personal pension. Furthermore, it 
doesnt appear that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr E could have nominated 
someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr E 
had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him. 
I cant be sure about the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. However, 
at around 49 years old and apparently healthy, term life insurance may have been a 
reasonably affordable product if he really did want to leave a legacy for his loved ones. 
Im therefore clear that in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of the valuable retirement benefits 
Mr E would enjoy through the BSPS2.  
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
DCFL said Mr E wanted control of his pension going forward and its investment strategy. 
However, theres no real evidence of what his personal involvement in money market type 
investing actually was. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr E really had a 
capacity or desire to manage his pension if he transferred out to the extent that it was 
influential in his decision about what to do. There were certainly no advantages around cost 
in transferring out to a personal plan. In my view, DCFLs statements about control over the 
funds are generic, and they dont explain how Mr Es personal control would be in his best 
interests.
Ive read what DCFL has said about this now. It says it would have continued to advise Mr E 
and it concedes he could not manage the investments on his own. Of course, this would 
have added to his costs  costs he didnt have in the DB scheme and this just adds weight, 
in my view, to the reasons why transferring out wasnt right for him.
However, I do accept that its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was 
concerned about his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its 
plans for the scheme and DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Es concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
should have reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr E through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to DCFLs 
recommendation to Mr E to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr E. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr E was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Es best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties at the time that BSPS2 was most likely going ahead. Mr E 
still had several years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering 
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
By opting into the BSPS2, Mr E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, I think he would have wanted to consider a wifes pension and that it would be set at 
50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement (if Mr E chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2. 
I have considered whether Mr E would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I 
accept that DCFL disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr E, and provided him with 
a certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr E to transfer out, and I think he 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr E asked DCFL for advice and this pension 
also accounted for most of his retirement provision at that time. So, if DCFL had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr E was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In arriving at this decision, Ive fully considered DCFLs wider responses to various issues 
outlined in my PD of last December. Ive dealt with some of the issues raised, in what I have 
explained above, in this decision. For the other matters variously raised by DCFL, Im not 
going to repeat these or go into much detail but they relate to his early retirement aspirations, the flexibility issues and the death benefits. I previously discussed all these 
matters at length in the PD and they are set out again in this final decision. Essentially DCFL 
hasnt said anything new, but rather, has repeated the positions it previously took. Im 
satisfied what Ive had to say about these issues are comprehensively explained, although of 
course I accept DCFL doesnt agree with me.
Ive also considered an unsigned client questionnaire form which DCFL sent through to me 
following the issuing of the PD, but in my view, this adds nothing to the complaint either way.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint. DCFL should now compensate Mr E for 
the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line with 
current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He says he doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. I am therefore satisfied that a 
calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair 
redress for Mr E. 
For clarity, Mr E has not retired. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr E of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr E by DCFL for what he 
referred to the upset and worry caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Es age, family circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in 
his pension to that date; Mr E had built up his pension over a long. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr E. So, I agree that 
DCFL should pay Mr E £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice 
which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requireDC Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where 
the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require DC Financial 
Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
DC Financial Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman