DRN-3589962
The complaint
Ms R complained that 247 Staywarm Limited (247 Staywarm) unfairly voided her boiler 
warranty and staywarm plan, resulting in her claim being declined under her home 
emergency / rescue service agreement. 
What happened
After having her boiler fitted, Ms R made a claim on her policy when she noticed a leak 
coming from the boiler and it was noisier than normal. 247 Staywarm appointed an engineer 
to attend the property, but due to renovation works he couldnt rectify the problem. The 
engineer left a flue extension kit with Ms R ready to do the work when the scaffolding had 
been removed.
However, when the engineer returned, he reported that external rendering had been carried 
out to the property which covered the gas supply pipe and it was also noted the black seal 
from the flue had been removed. Rendering had covered part of that area also. The 
engineers opinion was that the leak and the noise identified was because of the render work 
carried out which meant the boiler was no longer fitted to required standards.
247 Staywarm said the rendering had been done without its prior consent, which it said 
meant it had to void Ms Rs boiler warranty and Staywarm plan. It said Ms R needed to 
rectify the problems caused by the rendering, which included having a replacement flue fitted 
and new supply pipe. It estimated the cost for doing this at around £600-800. 247 Staywarm 
said Ms R could cancel the plan, subject to a cancellation fee of £1,000 (although 247 
Staywarm later said a mistake was made when this was calculated, and it shouldve been 
£700).
Ms R doesnt think this is fair. She said she told 247 Staywarm she was having insulation / 
rendering fitted when she had the boiler installed. She said when the builder came to do the 
rendering, she rang up 247 Staywarm to tell them the flu had been fitted incorrectly and the 
builder had told her it was not long enough to take the insulation into account. Ms R also 
said the second emergency engineer confirmed to her the flu hadnt been fitted correctly.
She is unhappy her boiler isnt working  and she doesnt think its fair she has to pay for the 
boiler to be repaired or to cancel her plan.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said the insulation was fitted by a 
third-party who wasnt authorised by 247 Staywarm. As this was a breach of the terms and 
conditions of the policy, he thought it had been reasonable to decline the claim as 247 
Staywarm wouldnt have been liable under the policy. Ms R disagreed with our investigator, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not an engineer so I have to base my decisions on the evidence provided. 247 
Staywarms engineers opinion was that the rendering work was the cause of the leak. As I 
havent seen any contradictory evidence to this, I think 247 Staywarm has been reasonable 
in basing its decision on its engineers opinion that the third-partys work was the cause of 
the issues reported.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of the policy state in respect to issues 
occurring because of third-party work.
The policy states We will not be liable where the defect or malfunction arises or is wholly or 
mainly due to: 
ii. Any deliberate or reckless damage caused by you or any third party (whether they are
known to you or not);
iv. Any work carried out by any third party other than an Approved Engineer or another
person who we have (in exceptional circumstances) authorised in writing to undertake
specific work.
The second part of this statement shows that customers are required to seek written 
authorisation from 247 Staywarm for third parties to carry out specific work. It has said it 
didnt authorise the third-party to do the work. I appreciate Ms R said she spoke to one of 
247 Staywarms engineers about the work and said her daughter did as well. Unfortunately, I 
havent seen any evidence that this did happen. 
Our services decisions are based on evidence, so without this its hard for me to confirm this 
happened. However, I think the terms and conditions are clear anyway, that any approval 
needed to be in writing. I havent seen evidence that any formal request was made to 247 
Staywarm setting out what the work was and who the contractor was. And I havent seen a 
written response from 247 Staywarm authorising the works. 
As the rendering works had an impact on the flue, I think its clear from the terms and 
conditions, Ms R needed to seek written permission. As by not doing so, any issues that 
occurred, 247 Staywarm wouldnt be liable for under the policy. As Ms R hasnt provided any 
proof of this written authorisation, I dont think 247 Staywarm has been unreasonable in 
declining the claim.
I appreciate Ms R felt the flue was fitted incorrectly from the start  however, she signed a 
Boiler Satisfaction Note to show she was happy with the installation. I know shes not an 
expert, but I havent seen any evidence to show the boiler was incorrectly installed. I would 
also like to point out the installation of the boiler would also be out of our services 
jurisdiction, as we are only able to look at contracts of insurance. However, as I havent seen 
any evidence that highlights that 247 Staywarm has done anything wrong, I dont think it 
would be fair to uphold this complaint.
During our investigation, 247 Staywarm did offer to waive any cancellation fees for the plan 
which I think is fair (which was part of Ms Rs complaint saying she would have to pay this 
revised cost of £700). Whilst Ms R didnt get written authorisation to use the third-party, I 
think it was a genuine error on her part. I dont think she wouldve realised at the time the 
rendering wouldve caused the issues to her boiler. However, as this wasnt 247 Staywarms 
fault it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint. Ms R rejected this offer  but it still 
might be available to her should she change her mind and approach 247 Staywarm.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require 247 Staywarm Limited to do 
anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman