DRN-3854383
The complaint and what happened
 Mrs M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money she lost to a land 
banking scam.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Between 2004 and 2010 Mrs M paid over £100,000 to two land banking schemes 
which, essentially, involved the sale of plots of land with a view to planning permission 
being granted for the development of the land, and the plots being sold at a profit.
The land banking schemes didnt provide the expected returns. In 2013, the financial 
services regulator (now the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA) took steps to wind up 
one of the schemes because it did not have the required authorisation to operate a 
collective investment scheme. Some funds were recovered but not enough to repay all 
that had been invested. Its not clear how much money (if any) Mrs M has received back 
but she still has the title to at least some of the plots of land.
Mrs M thinks Barclays ought to have realised she was making high value, out of 
character payments from her account  some of which she says were the proceeds of 
loans and some which left her account overdrawn. She says the bank should have 
stopped her from making the investments and suffering the related losses.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  she didnt think intervention from the bank 
would likely have prevented Mrs M from investing. Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint 
has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigators overall conclusion and I note the following, in particular:
When Mrs M first invested into these schemes the rules, regulations and best practice 
that were in place about protecting consumers from scams were less rigorous than they 
are now. 
Land banking isnt always a scam. And it doesnt seem that the industry regulator had 
published any warnings about the specific schemes Mrs M was investing in until after 
shed sent her last payment. 
In 2011 Mrs M completed a witness statement for the court case that related to one of 
the schemes and described herself as an experienced investor. She now tells us she 
wasnt as experienced as this section of the witness statement might suggest. But I have 
to take into account all of the evidence Ive been provided. Mrs M has also shared some 
of the literature she was given at the time which looks professional and persuasive. She 
also notes that thousands of people, some with a lot more investment experience than 
her, fell victim to this scam.
Mrs M says she experienced financial difficulties over the years and criticises the banks 
lending decisions. Ive looked through her statements and can see there were occasions 
when she became overdrawn, but at times there were also rather large sums moving 
through her account. 
In all the circumstances, even if I did think that the bank ought to have intervened when 
Mrs M made payment to the schemes, I dont think its likely she would have been 
prevented from investing. So I cant fairly uphold this complaint or make an award 
against Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman