DRN-3805209
The complaint
Miss M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited damaged her car when its agent 
installed a telematics device after she took out a motor insurance policy. She wants Admiral 
to reimburse her repair costs, remove the telematics data and compensate her for being 
without her car for two months. Miss M is represented in this matter by her mother.
What happened
Miss M took out a telematics policy with Admiral and its agent installed a device in her car. A 
few weeks later, warning lights came on. Miss M took her car to a garage and then, four 
months later, to a dealers garage. The dealers garage said a poorly installed device had 
caused catastrophic damage to the cars electrical system and parts had to be replaced. 
This cost Miss M £1,238.82. 
Miss M thought Admirals agent had caused the damage and she wanted Admiral to 
reimburse her costs and compensate her for being without her car. And she thought the 
telematics data should be void as it didnt represent a full years driving. Admiral said its 
evidence showed that the device had been fitted correctly. But Miss M thought the 
photographs it provided werent of her car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
dealers report had found that a device or jump starting had damaged the cars electrics. The 
telematics device wasnt fitted near the damaged part. She thought that if the damage had 
been caused by Admirals agent, then this would have been immediately apparent. She 
noted that the dealer hadnt inspected the car until four months after the installation. She 
couldnt safely say that the photographs didnt show Miss Ms car. 
And so she thought there wasnt evidence that Admiral had caused the damage and she 
thought it need not reimburse Miss M. And she thought Admiral was entitled to rely on the 
data to continue the policy as this was factual. 
Mrs M replied that she thought her submissions had been dismissed. She said the car hadnt 
been jump-started and there hadnt been any interference with the device. Mrs M said the 
dealers garage had said the wires to the device had been poorly insulated and damage 
could have been caused by any jolt. Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the damage to her car, and Admirals response to her complaint, has 
caused Miss M upset and frustration. I can see that it took some time and a financial outlay 
to get her car repaired.
The Investigator has already explained that this service does not assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for repairs.
Mrs M was unhappy that her submissions hadnt been considered. Ive read them all and Ive 
considered them. Mrs M has reported comments from a variety of sources. I dont disbelieve 
what Mrs M has told us. But we are an evidence-based service. So I have to give greater 
weight to reports from engineers rather than to Mrs Ms statements. 
Mrs M reported that her local garage, the dealers garage and Admirals agent had all 
expressed concerns about how the box had been installed. Mrs M provided two emails from 
the dealership. The first said that the tracker unit, i.e. black box, had poorly insulated wires. 
Reference was made to multiple fuses and the location of the installation. 
Admiral said its agent confirmed that the box had been installed correctly. It said this was 
confirmed by photographs taken at the installation, which it has provided. The agent said 
there had been interference with the black box after its installation. I can see that Mrs M 
denies this. But I think the agent explained how it installed the box, supported by its manual, 
and how this differed to what was later reported by the garages.
Mrs M said the photographs of the installation werent of her daughters car. But I havent 
seen enough evidence to be satisfied that this was the case. 
The dealers garage concluded, only external connection or jump starting the car could 
cause the fault. But it didnt state that the damage had been caused by the installation of the 
box. I havent seen any further expert engineering evidence that Admiral should have 
considered. 
The faults were reported several weeks after the installation of the box, rather than 
immediately afterwards as might be expected. Mrs M was unhappy that the timeline of the 
problem hadnt been correctly reported. So Ive considered this.
The earliest account of problems with the telematics device was in a letter sent to Admiral by 
Miss Ms grandfather. He said the black box had stopped working after a few weeks. And 
this was followed by warning lights appearing. Mrs M, in her complaint to us, confirmed that 
the lights appeared a few weeks after installation. So I think the timeline has been based 
on what Miss Ms family have told us. 
So Im satisfied that Admiral has considered all the available evidence and that it has 
justified its decision not to take responsibility for the damage to Miss Ms car. So I dont 
require Admiral to reimburse Miss M for the cost of the repairs or to compensate her for 
being without her car.
The policy continued after the black box had been removed from Miss Ms car. Mrs M was 
unhappy that it was then based on the driving score that Miss M had earned in her few 
months driving. But I think this was based on Miss Ms driving history, and I havent seen any 
evidence that this was incorrectly recorded. So I dont require Admiral to waive the use of 
this data. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman