DRN-1692462
The complaint
Ms B and Mr M complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for water damage. 
Ms B and Mr M are represented by Ms Bs partner in bringing this complaint. But for clarity 
Ill refer to all submissions as being made by Ms B and Mr M directly.
What happened
Ms B and Mr M live in a flat. On 10 November 2018 they discovered an escape of water from 
a pipe underneath the kitchen sink had caused damage to their property and the flat below. 
Ms B and Mr M said their kitchen, living room and bedroom sustained damage. 
Ms B and Mr M said they initially decided to repair the leak independently of their insurer 
because they thought, at the time the damage was minimal. So they instructed a plumber to 
visit their property, who stopped the leak. And Ms B and Mr M dried out the affected rooms 
using a dehumidifier. 
In January 2019 Ms B and Mr M said the wooden floor in their living room was showing 
substantial water damage as it had lifted and bowed. And they said the bedroom carpet and 
kitchen had sustained damage that hadnt been evident in November 2018. So they 
contacted Aviva to make a claim under their home insurance policy.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to attend Ms B and Mr Ms property and assist it with their 
claim. Ill refer to the loss adjuster as S within this decision. Aviva also assigned a surveyor 
to Ms B and Mr Ms claim and it nominated contractors to undertake the remedial work 
recommended by S.
On 17 January 2019 S visited Ms B and Mr Ms flat during which it investigated the source of 
the leak and scoped the repair works necessary to restore their property to its pre-loss state. 
S completed a report, which confirmed the repairs that were needed. But it wasnt able to 
determine what had caused the escape of water. So Ms B and Mr M were informed theyd 
need to obtain a report from the plumber that attended their property to repair the leak that 
confirmed the cause of the damage and what repairs were carried out.
Following S visit Ms B and Mr M provided a cause of damage report from their plumber. 
Aviva told them it was prepared to partially settle their claim based on S report. It explained 
it would replace the kitchen units that had sustained water damage. It also agreed to replace 
the vinyl flooring. But it didnt agree to replace the sink and work surfaces because it said 
these werent damaged and could be removed and reinstated in line with the terms of Ms B 
and Mr Ms insurance policy.
In the living room Aviva agreed to replace the wooden flooring this had lifted and bowed. 
And in the hallway, while the flooring hadnt shown any visible water related damage, Aviva 
agreed to replace it because S said it was spongy and creaked when pressure was applied. 
But Aviva wouldnt replace the bedroom carpet because it said staining present was 
unrelated to the escape of water Ms B and Mr M had reported.Aviva said their contractors were able to undertake the remedial work it had approved for 
£4647.60 including VAT. But Ms B and Mr M submitted two quotes to Aviva  the lowest of 
which was £18200. So, they felt the work required to restore their home to its pre-loss state 
had been hugely underestimated by Aviva.
Being dissatisfied with how Aviva intended to resolve their claim Ms B and Mr M complained. 
But Aviva didnt uphold their complaint as it felt it hadnt made an error in assessing their 
claim. And it said it had acted in line with the terms of their policy.
Ms B and Mr M werent happy that Aviva had declined to replace their worktops, sink and 
carpet. So, they asked Aviva to place their claim on hold while they complained to our 
service.  Our investigator looked into what had happened but they didnt uphold Ms B and Mr 
Ms complaint. Overall, they thought Aviva had acted fairly. But Ms B and Mr M disagreed 
and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that since our investigator issued their view Ms B and Mr M raised additional 
concerns about how Aviva has handled their claim. I can see our investigator has explained 
these are new issues that I wont be considering under this complaint.  
My role is to assess whether I think Aviva made a mistake, or treated Ms B and Mr M 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything they and Aviva have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Ms 
B and Mr M will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Ms B and Mr M and Aviva, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B and Mr Ms policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include escape of water, for example. For a 
claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
Theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Ms B and Mr Ms property. Its clear from 
the photographs S included in their report there was an escape of water from a pipe 
underneath the kitchen sink. However, theres a dispute between Ms B and Mr M, Aviva and 
its appointed agents about the extent of the damage that occurred and the correct outcome 
of this claim. 
Ive identified four parts to Ms B and Mr Ms complaint and I think it will make things clearer if 
I deal with them separately. 
Bedroom carpet
Ms B and Mr M told Aviva and our service that her bedroom carpet was damaged in the 
escape of water. But Aviva dispute that. In determining whether Aviva acted fairly in declining Ms B and Mr Ms claim for damage to 
their carpet Ive considered the photographs taken by the S, their opinion of the cause of 
damage and Ms B and Mr Ms account as to how they believe the damage was caused.
Ive seen a floorplan of Ms B and Mr Ms property  it appears the bedroom neighbours the 
lounge. The photographs show isolated staining on the bedroom carpet, which is a distance 
from the door threshold. And they also evidence a low moisture reading to the carpet and 
underlay. 
The staining is circular in shape and Im not persuaded this is consistent with water gradually 
coming from the source of the leak into this room, which is what Id expect to see. I think if 
water had migrated from the lounge across the threshold of the bedroom its likely thered be 
a spread pattern from the threshold to the stain itself instead of an isolated stain. Id also 
expect to see higher moisture readings recorded.
I havent seen any evidence that satisfies me that the carpet was damaged as result of the 
leak. I can see Ms B and Mr M were invited by Aviva to obtain an independent report to 
confirm the damage to their carpet was caused by the leak. However, I havent seen any 
reports or evidence from Ms B and Mr M confirming this. And in the absence of that I cant 
fairly conclude Avivas decision to decline cover here was unfair.
I think its most likely that the carpet damage was pre-existing and unrelated to the escape of 
water for the reasons already outlined. Pre-existing damage is excluded from Ms B and Mr 
Ms policy, which is in common with most home insurance policies. So, I cant fairly ask it to 
replace Ms B and Mr Ms carpet under the escape of water peril. And, as Ms B and Mr Ms 
policy doesnt have accidental cover included I cant ask Aviva to consider a claim under this 
clause either.
Kitchen worktops and sink
Aviva says the kitchen worktops and sink didnt sustain water damage. And, having carefully 
viewed the photographs S took, I agree. Aviva proposes to remove the existing worktops 
and sink and reinstate them once the damaged kitchen units have been replaced. As Ms 
B and Mr M feel this is unfair Ive considered whether Avivas proposals are in line with the 
terms of their policy.
Ms B and Mr Ms policy clearly outlines that Aviva can choose to settle their claim by 
replacing, reinstating, repairing or payment.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied the existing worktops and sink can be 
removed and reinstated without being damaged. So, Im persuaded Aviva is acting 
reasonably in reinstating these items once the base units have been replaced. What its 
proposing to do is in line with the terms of Ms B and Mr Ms policy.
Ms B and Mr M argued that their worktops and sink should be replaced as they wont match 
their new cupboards. But their policy states that Aviva will not pay for the cost of replacing 
any undamaged items, which form part of: a pair, a set, a suite, any other item of a uniform 
nature, design or colour.
As Im satisfied the worktops and sink are undamaged, I cant fairly conclude that Aviva 
acted unreasonably or contrary to the policy terms in declining to replace them.
Declining to approve the quotes submitted by Ms B and Mr MI acknowledge that Ms B and Mr M wanted to use contractors of their choice to undertake 
the remedial work to their home. They had concerns that Aviva had grossly underestimated 
the extent of repairs required to restore their home to its pre-loss state. 
Theres a substantial difference in cost between the quotes provided by Ms B and Mr M and 
the scope of work approved by Aviva. But I can see that the quotes Ms B and Mr M obtained 
include work that isnt covered by their policy for the reasons Ive already given. 
Having seen the scope of works Aviva approved here Im satisfied it included the repair of all 
items, which were damaged by the escape of water. I therefore think Aviva acted fairly in 
scoping the repairs needed here.
While Ms B and Mr M may have wanted to use contractors of their choice their policy permits 
Aviva to use its preferred supplier or tradesperson to undertake remedial work. And this 
typically costs less than the cost Ms B and Mr M would incur if they were to use one of the 
companies they obtained a quote from. Aviva hasnt done anything wrong here in nominating 
contractors of its choice to undertaken the repairs  especially given the large cost 
difference. This is in line with the terms of Ms B and Mr Ms policy. 
I can see Aviva gave Ms B and Mr M the option of a cash settlement in the sum of £4647.60 
including VAT to put towards the cost of using their contractors of choice if thats something 
they still want to do. Im satisfied this offer is fair and in line with Ms B and Mr Ms policy 
terms.
Delays
Ms B and Mr M have complained that Aviva didnt progress their claim proactively. They say 
there were unnecessary delays.
Ive carefully considered the chronology Aviva has provided our service and I can see it was 
made aware of the claim on 7 January 2019. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied it 
immediately appointed S. And I can see that Ms B and Mr M were offered S earliest 
appointment for a site visit  namely 17 January 2019.  
Following S visit Aviva wasnt able to progress Ms B and Mr Ms claim until it received their 
cause of damage report. Im satisfied Ms B and Mr M were made aware of this by both S 
and Aviva. And I can see they were reminded by Aviva that this was required to move things 
forward when they called on 15 February 2019. Ive seen evidence that Ms B and Mr M 
provided the report Aviva required the same day. And a decision was made to accept and 
settle Ms B and Mr Ms claim on 20 February 2019. Again, Im satisfied there were no delays 
here on the part of Aviva.  
On 21 February 2019, I can see Aviva made an offer of settlement to Ms B and Mr M. They 
expressed their unhappiness with the offer made and were advised to submit estimates, 
which Aviva would review on receipt. 
The records throughout April 2019 show that Aviva attempted to communicate with Ms B 
and Mr M about their claim but they werent able to reach them. I can see Aviva set up 
reminders to chase Ms B and Mr M for their response and left a number of messages for 
them. The records show Aviva acted proactively in trying to progress Ms B and Mr Ms claim. 
I dont think theres anything more it could have done.
On 1 May 2019 Ms B and Mr M contacted Aviva to advise they were still obtaining quotes. 
So, it isnt unreasonable that Aviva couldnt progress their claim in the absence of 
quotations. And I can see Ms B and Mr M provided two quotes to Aviva on 18 July 2019.On 22 July 2019, I can see Aviva informed Ms B and Mr M that their quotes were excessive. 
At this point they asked Aviva to place their claim on hold while they disputed the settlement 
proposed because they remained unhappy that it wasnt intending to replace the worktops, 
sink and carpet.
Overall, while this claim could have been progressed quicker by Aviva, Im persuaded the 
delay was due to it having to chase Ms B and Mr M for information it required to move their 
claim forward. It acted as proactively it could. And so, it would be unfair for me to find that 
Aviva was responsible for the delays here.
I appreciate that Ms B and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but theres nothing to 
persuade me that Aviva has treated them unfairly or unreasonably. Its proposed a 
settlement of their claim, which is in line with their insurance terms. And Im not persuaded 
there are any grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require Aviva to change the settlement 
offer its made here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman