DRN-2782774
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Aldermore Bank Plc treated him when he got into financial 
difficulties with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr K has a mortgage with Aldermore. In around 2016, he lost his job and began to 
experience financial difficulties. There were wider difficulties in the industry he worked in at 
this time, so it was difficult for Mr K to find other work.
As a result Mr K began to find it difficult to keep up with his mortgage payments. In 2017 he 
asked Aldermore for a payment holiday, which it refused. It said it didnt offer payment 
holidays.
At various times Mr K asked for reduced payment arrangements. Before it would agree to 
arrangements, Aldermore wanted to see evidence of his income and expenditure. But Mr K 
wasnt willing to provide that, because he said he had a joint bank account with his wife and 
couldnt share her personal information. So Aldermore was unable to agree payment 
arrangements.
In 2018, Mr K put the property up for sale. However, he had difficulty in selling because of 
problems in the local property market. By this time he was no longer living in the property. 
The property was in negative equity and Mr K and Aldermore had discussions over what 
would happen to any shortfall in the mortgage balance on sale  Aldermore wanted Mr K to 
agree to a charge being placed over another property he owned to secure the debt. 
In 2019, Mr K found other work and took the property off the market. However, he continued 
to experience financial difficulties and the arrears on the mortgage continued to grow.
In 2020, Mr K asked Aldermore for a three month coronavirus payment deferral, which it 
granted. 
Mr K offered to make reduced payments, first of £50 a month then of £350 a month. 
Aldermore didnt accept that without full evidence of his income and expenditure. He also 
asked for the mortgage to be converted to interest only terms, which Aldermore didnt agree. 
Mr K complained. He said that he was in a difficult situation through no fault of his own. 
Aldermore had refused to help him, had been unfair and unsympathetic and made 
unreasonable demands. He said he had tried to work with Aldermore to find a solution, but it 
wouldnt accept his proposals. He also said that the interest rate on his mortgage was too 
high and should be reduced. 
Mr K wanted Aldermore to capitalise the arrears, reduce the interest rate and allow time for 
the property market in his area to recover so he could sell the property without increasing his 
debt to Aldermore.
Aldermore didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it had reasonably requested information 
about Mr Ks circumstances so it could be sure it wasnt committing him to a payment 
arrangement he couldnt afford. It didnt offer payment holidays and conversion to interest 
only wasnt an option where Mr K had no means of repaying the capital. When Mr K did later 
provide income and expenditure information, this showed that even his proposed £50 per 
month wasnt affordable. And if the interest rate was reduced, the mortgage still wouldnt be 
affordable.
It had considered extending the term, but even extending to Aldermores maximum age limit 
would only add four years, which wouldnt result in a significant reduction in the monthly 
payment. As the monthly payment was around £950, Mr Ks proposals would mean the 
arrears continued to mount. And capitalisation wasnt viable because that would increase the 
monthly payments.
It said it had tried to work with Mr K to get things back on track but he was in a difficult 
position and there was little prospect of things improving. It thought that selling the property 
was Mr Ks best option and that if no sale could be arranged it would need to consider 
repossession to prevent things getting worse. 
Following Mr Ks initial complaint, in late 2020 his financial situation improved and he was 
able to show Aldermore that he now had a surplus of income over expenditure. Based on 
that, Aldermore offered to either capitalise the arrears, or to give Mr K either a two year or 
five year fixed rate  which would reduce the monthly payment and allow him to clear the 
arrears through overpayments more quickly than through capitalisation. Mr K asked for a five 
year rate.
However, Mr K found himself unable to make payments again before any of those options 
could be implemented. He asked Aldermore for a further three month payment holiday as he 
expected he would be able to resume payments from February 2021. Aldermore agreed to a 
further payment holiday to February 2021.  
Our investigator thought Aldermore hadnt acted unfairly. So Mr K asked for an ombudsman 
to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K took out his mortgage in 2015. It was on a fixed rate for the first two years, after which 
it reverted to Aldermores standard variable rate (SVR).
Its very unfortunate that Mr K began to experience financial difficulties, and Im sure this was 
a very difficult and worrying time for him and his family. Im sorry to hear of the impact the 
stress and worry had on his health.
However, Im not persuaded that Aldermore has acted unfairly here, and I think its likely to 
be his wider circumstances that have impacted Mr Ks health, rather than anything 
Aldermore has done.
When Mr K took out his mortgage, he agreed to repay it over the agreed term, paying the 
agreed payments each month. If he doesnt make the payments, the mortgage falls into 
arrears. This means the balance doesnt reduce as it should, further interest is added 
because the balance is higher than expected, and ultimately means the mortgage wouldnt 
be paid off by the end of the term.Where the mortgage isnt being repaid, the lender is entitled to take action to enforce 
payment, and ultimately to repossess the property to recover its money.
However, this is a drastic step to take, and so the rules of mortgage regulation  and the 
requirements of good practice and fairness  say that this should be a last resort.
A lender should try to work with the borrower to try and get things back on track  including 
offering help and support. There are various options open to a lender, including temporary 
reduced payment arrangements, extending the term of the mortgage, or changing its type. 
But in every case the ultimate aim is for the borrower to bring the mortgage back up to date 
and avoid the need for the lender to take repossession.
In this case, I think Aldermore acted fairly towards Mr K. Over a period of several years, as 
the arrears went up and down, it kept in contact with him and explored various options and 
the proposals Mr K made.
I think it was reasonable for Aldermore to want to look at Mr Ks income and expenditure, 
and ask to see evidence of that in the form of his bank statements. It wouldnt be right to 
agree to an arrangement that wasnt sustainable or affordable for Mr K  and equally its 
reasonable for Aldermore to satisfy itself that Mr K is paying as much as he can to the 
mortgage and treating it as a priority.
Mr K wasnt willing to provide his bank statements, as they were for a joint account he held 
with his wife (whos not a party to the mortgage), and while that may be understandable, it 
did limit the extent to which Aldermore could help him by agreeing payment arrangements.
It's also important to note that a payment arrangement is supposed to be a temporary respite 
while Mr K gets things back on track and returns to a position where he can pay the full 
monthly payments. The longer an arrangement goes on, the harder it will be to make up the 
missed payments afterwards. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aldermore to refuse an 
arrangement of £50 a month without evidence that this was the most Mr K could afford, 
especially as the arrears had been going on for some time by this point. And while the 
property was on the market, there was little sign that it was going to sell given the problems 
with the market in Mr Ks location  especially as lowering the asking price would increase 
the negative equity.
A payment arrangement is a temporary measure to help a borrower in financial difficulty, 
whereby the lender agrees not to collect some or all of the contractual payment for a short 
period. Its different to a payment holiday  which is a contractual entitlement not to make 
payments for a set period. 
Payment holidays are not a feature of Mr Ks mortgage, so its not unreasonable Aldermore 
wouldnt grant one. It did grant payment deferrals  as required by the regulator because of 
the coronavirus pandemic  and in the end Mr K was given the maximum six months 
deferral. I think thats fair.
Aldermore refused Mr Ks requests for a lower interest rate. I dont think this was 
unreasonable either. A lower rate generally means a fixed rate, which comes with an early 
repayment charge (ERC). And while in some situations a lower rate makes an unaffordable 
mortgage affordable  thus solving the underlying problem  I dont think that was the case 
here. Mr K wasnt in a position to afford even the lower payments on a fixed rate, so the 
mortgage would still have been in arrears.An ERC is chargeable when the fixed rate comes to an end. ERCs can be substantial, up to 
5% of the mortgage balance or even more. And in this case there was a significant risk that 
Mr K would incur an ERC if he took a new fixed rate  the property was on the market, and if 
it didnt sell the mounting arrears meant there was a growing risk of repossession. In either 
of those situations an ERC would have been charged, worsening Mr Ks negative equity.
Balancing those considerations then, a new fixed rate wouldnt have resolved the situation 
for Mr K, and risked making it worse. So I dont think it was unfair that Aldermore wouldnt 
offer him a new rate.
Capitalisation of arrears is one option open to a lender. What this means is that the 
outstanding arrears are added to the mortgage balance and the monthly repayment 
calculated  so that the missed payments are made up over the rest of the term. This 
increases the amount of the monthly payments.
So while capitalisation makes arrears go away, its not a solution where the borrower 
currently finds the mortgage unaffordable  since it increases the payment, it just means the 
arrears will go up more quickly in the future. Capitalisation is generally only appropriate 
when the underlying financial difficulty has resolved itself, the borrower is now able to 
maintain the monthly payments every month, and its just historic arrears that need to be 
dealt with. That wasnt Mr Ks situation  he continued to be unable to afford the monthly 
payments, so increasing them through capitalisation would not have helped him.
Ive thought carefully about everything that has happened with this mortgage in recent years. 
I do understand how difficult and frustrating Mr Ks situation has been for him. He lost his job 
in very difficult economic circumstances, which meant he had great difficulty in finding 
another. And as a result of that, he had great difficulty in keeping up with his mortgage 
commitments. But I do think that Aldermore treated him fairly throughout this period. It didnt 
agree to everything he wanted, but Ive explained above why that was. It did consider 
measures such as payment arrangements and allowing Mr K time to sell the property. 
But the purpose of forbearance in situations like this is to give the borrower some respite to 
get things back on track. Im satisfied that Aldermore has done that, and its done what it 
could to assist Mr K. Its not responsible for the underlying cause of his situation, and 
ultimately there will come a point where the longer things go on, the harder it will be for Mr K 
to get back on track  when payments are missed, the balance goes up through extra 
interest, theres less time remaining on the term to catch up, and the negative equity position 
gets worse. Ultimately, while repossession has to be a last resort, that last resort is 
sometimes reached. Im satisfied that to date Aldermore has so far acted reasonably to try 
and avoid that, and I hope that wont be necessary in the future. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think I can uphold the complaint that Aldermore has not 
treated Mr K fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman