DRN-3177184
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc made an error 
meaning its account information could be seen by a third party. 
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by one of its directors, Mrs A.
What happened
D had an existing account with Clydesdale, with three people able to view this account. One 
of its directors, Mr A is also the administrator for the account.  Mr A was also the 
administrator for another family business account with Clydesdale  but this was separate 
from D.
Mr A decided to step away from being the administrator of the other account as his family 
member who Ill call Mr W was going to be more involved and would therefore take on this 
role. Mr W spoke to Clydesdale about becoming administrator of this account and in error, 
he was also added as an administrator to Ds account  meaning he could see all Ds 
information. Mrs A believes this error occurred around October 2020, and Mr A contacted 
Clydesdale to make them aware.
However, Mr and Mrs A werent aware until March 2021 that Mr W could still see Ds 
accounts. So Mrs A complained to Clydesdale on Ds behalf. She said the bank hadnt made 
anyone on the account aware it had changed the administrator on Ds account. And although 
Mr W was a family member, this was a data breach and could cause future issues within the 
family business.
Clydesdale contacted Mrs A a couple of times over the next few of months, but they didnt 
resolve the problem. In July, the bank upheld Ds complaint in part. Clydesdale said both the 
accounts Mr A had been an administrator for had been linked on an internal system and 
when the accounts had been separated the link hadnt been removed. This meant when D 
and the other account had been transferred to Clydesdales new online system, Mr W had 
been given access. The bank said they were now in the process of removing Mr W.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Clydesdales actions. She said the bank hadnt shown any urgency 
to resolve the account issue and didnt show any concern for the data breach theyd caused. 
So she asked this service to look into Ds complaint. 
After bringing the complaint to this service and in the process of unlinking the accounts, 
Clydesdale caused further issues for D by initially linking Mr and Mrs As personal accounts 
to Ds online banking  which meant they couldnt print the required documentation. And 
then removing the personal accounts and Ds main account so Mrs A wasnt able to make 
Ds payments. 
A couple of months later, Clydesdale wrote to this service and said theyd reconsidered Ds 
complaint. The bank explained when theyd relooked at the complaint, they agreed their 
service had been below the level expected. So Clydesdale said they would like to offer D, 
£200 for the inconvenience caused and either a refund of the last six months fees plus the 
next six months or no fees for the forthcoming 12 months. The bank also said they would 
send a letter of apology for the service D had received. 
Our investigator thought the offer of £200 compensation and 12 months fee free banking 
was fair. She said although Mrs A had said there could be a future adverse impact, this 
service couldnt award compensation for losses which may not occur. She also said, 
although Mr and Mrs A had personally been caused distress, this was Ds complaint and we 
could only award compensation for the inconvenience to D. So she felt Clydesdales offer 
was reasonable for the impact on D.
Mrs A didnt agree. She felt the compensation wasnt enough for the breach of Ds data and 
asked for an ombudsman to look into the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.  
Theres no dispute that Clydesdale made mistakes in giving Mr W online access to Ds 
accounts and removing Mr and Mrs As access to Ds main account when trying to resolve 
this error. I can see that Clydesdale have said theyve resolved the issue and apologised for 
what happened.   
Mrs A has said she was unhappy it took more than six months for Clydesdale to update their 
online systems correctly. I also acknowledge Mrs A doesnt think the account access issue 
occurred in the way Clydesdale described in their final response letter. Shes also said the 
breach of Ds account information may cause issues for Mr A in the future with his familys 
business. 
Ive looked at the evidence available, and whilst I appreciate Mrs As concerns, Clydesdale 
have explained what they believe caused the error, apologised and made the amendments 
as requested. And although Mrs A said she doesnt believe this was the cause, Ive seen no 
other evidence to doubt this.
Mrs A has told us this error has caused distress for both herself and Mr A, and it could affect 
things in the family business. Unfortunately, our remit doesnt allow me to award 
compensation for losses or events which may arise the future. I can only look at putting a 
complainant back in or as close to the position it would have been before the error took 
place. In this case, its impossible to say what, if any impact there will be because Mr W saw 
Ds accounts  particularly as financial positions of accounts can vary greatly over time. 
I also acknowledge Mrs A has told us about the personal impact to herself and Mr A. 
However, I can only award compensation to the person(s) or entity bringing the complaint to 
this service  which in this case is D. As a limited company D cant be caused distress, so I 
can only look at the inconvenience caused by Clydesdales actions. And from what Mrs A 
has told us, the main impact was that Mr and Mrs A lost access to Ds main account for 
period of time. Mrs A also said D hadnt incurred any financial losses and hasnt said there 
was any other impact on D. 
Whilst I do understand Mrs As position due to the issues D has experienced. Its not for me 
to punish Clydesdale for making mistakes. Ive seen that the investigator gave Mrs A details 
of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and its for the ICO to consider whether data 
protection law has been breached. I recognise Mrs A feels strongly about this but taking into account all the circumstances I 
think Clydesdales offer of £200 compensation; 12 months fee free banking and letter of 
apology is fair. So I wont be asking the bank to increase this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Clydesdale Bank Plc to proceed 
with their offer to provide D with:
12 months fee-free banking  payable either by six-month refund for charges 
previously made and six-months in advance, or twelve months from the date of 
agreement by D; 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman