DRN-4027410
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he got from British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas)
and about its decision to turn down his claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was having an extension to his house built. When digging, his builders found a
corroded pipe that was leaking. Mr S made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy
to get the leak fixed.
The British Gas agent who visited Mr Ss home reported Mr Ss builders had found an old
corroded mains water supply pipe that was leaking. Mr S says the agent initially indicated
British Gas would replace the corroded pipe but, on speaking to British Gas validation team,
then changed his mind and said the claim wasnt covered. This was on the basis the
damage had been caused by Mr Ss builders and his policy excluded third party damage.
Mr S disputed this, so British Gas asked him for evidence the leak wasnt caused by the
builders. Mr S got details of his water usage from his water company showing it had
increased from 2014 and he said this could be evidence of a leak. Since Mr S didnt take his
policy out until 2021, British Gas changed its view on the cause of the leak and said it was a
pre-existing fault, which also wasnt covered under his policy.
When Mr S complained to British Gas about this, it didnt uphold his complaint although it did
offer Mr S £50 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the poor service hed had.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr S brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at
it didnt uphold it. She thought Mr S ought reasonably to have known there was a water leak
before he took the policy out.
Mr S disagreed. He said, among other things, he felt hed been misled by British Gas
throughout. In my provisional decision of 6 March 2023, I explained why I intended to uphold 
one part of Mr Ss complaint but not the other part. 
Mr S says he accepts my provisional decision. British Gas says it doesnt. Mr Ss complaint 
has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
one part of Mr Ss complaint but not the other part. Here is what I said in that decision: 
Looking first at Mr Ss claim. His home emergency insurance policy with British Gas says
hes covered for repairs to, among other things, his water supply pipe. And this is the pipe
British Gas agent in his visit report says was corroded and leaking.
But Mr Ss policy also has a number of exclusions. Two of them are relevant here. The first
is that, if anyone other than British Gas has carried out work on the water pipe and damages
it, Mr Ss cover doesnt include putting that right. The second is that Mr Ss policy doesnt
cover pre-existing faults, which includes a fault that existed when he took the policy out.
British Gas has relied on both of these exclusions to turn down Mr Ss claim. Initially, it said
Mr Ss builders caused the damage by disturbing the ground when digging the extension.
From internal records it has shown us, British Gass rationale for this was that there was no
way to prove there was a leak before the builders started to work on the extension.
Subsequently, British Gas has relied on the exclusion for pre-existing faults to turn down Mr
Ss claim. This is on the basis that the evidence Mr S gave it of increased water usage from
2014 showed the pipe was leaking before Mr S took the policy out in 2021.
This is the only evidence Ive got to go on in deciding this complaint. So at first British Gas
said Mr Ss builders were at fault for the leak but then, when he got details of his increased
water usage since 2014, it said there was an ongoing leak over a number of years. Apart
from the water usage information Mr S got, he hasnt given us any other evidence to show
what mightve caused the leak.
The one thing that does seem clear from the evidence Ive got is that the water pipe was
corroded. Mr S says this is what British Gas agent told his wife and (as Ive mentioned) the
agent referred to an old corroded mains in his visit notes. British Gas has also sent us a
photo of the pipe taken by its agent during his visit. I am not an expert but, from the photo,
the pipe looks old and corroded.
This is difficult and finely balanced because of the limited evidence I have. But I think its
likely a corroded pipe would leak. And I think its likely corrosion to a pipe happens slowly
over time. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not Mr Ss water pipe was corroding
and leaking before he bought the policy in 2021. And that means I dont think British Gas has
treated him unfairly or unreasonably in turning down his claim on the basis that there was a
pre-existing fault with the pipe.
Mr S is unhappy British Gas first told him his claim was accepted, then turned it down as
third-party damage, then turned it down as a pre-existing fault. Im not surprised Mr S is
unhappy and confused. He made a number of calls to British Gas at the time trying to
understand what was happening with his claim, and also went to the trouble of contacting his
water company for details of his water usage. If British Gas had given Mr S a clear
explanation for turning down his claim at the beginning, I think a lot of the extra effort Mr S
went to couldve been avoided. 
British Gas has offered (and I believe paid) Mr S £50 as a goodwill gesture for the poor
service it gave him. I think this mostly relates to a failed call-back and the time it took to deal
with Mr Ss complaint. But I intend to direct British Gas to pay Mr S additional compensation
of £100. I think this is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience British Gas
caused Mr S by giving him inconsistent and contradictory reasons for turning down his 
claim.
As Ive mentioned, Mr S accepts my provisional decision but British Gas doesnt. British Gas 
says that, within a matter of days of Mr S giving it evidence of his increased water usage 
from 2014, it made its position known to him  that is, that it was turning down his claim 
because of a pre-existing fault. So it doesnt think this wouldve caused Mr S any additional 
distress and inconvenience.
It seems to me British Gass argument is based on the assumptions that (a) Mr Ss 
increased water usage was due to a leak and (b) Mr S ought to have known about the leak. Mr S has said he didnt know at the time, and still doesnt know, if the increase in water 
consumption was due to the damaged pipe.  And Admiral has given us no evidence to 
support either of the assumptions its making. We are an evidence-based service and, 
without evidence to support its assumptions, Im not persuaded by British Gas argument 
here. So it doesnt change my conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision of 6 March 2023 (which now form 
part of this final decision), I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay him £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim 
has caused him (this is in addition to the £50 compensation it has already paid Mr S). 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell 
it Mr S has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, British Gas Insurance Limited must pay 
Mr S simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman