DRN-3972278
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK plc (Santander) collected the direct debit from his joint bank 
account earlier than the due date, resulting in it being unpaid. 
What happened
Mr W says Santander over a number of years have taken the direct debit payments for his 
credit card account before the date it was due and in March 2022 this resulted in the direct 
debit being unpaid. Mr W says this has resulted in his credit file being adversely affected and 
this has caused him stress and worry. Mr W doesnt feel Santander should be able to 
present the direct debit payment until the due date and he wasnt informed the payment was 
declined on the day. 
Santander says his monthly credit card account statements show the date from which the 
direct debit may be collected. Santander says it would normally attempt to claim the direct 
debit one working day before the due date. Santander says the reason he wasnt informed of 
the unpaid direct debit on 25 March 2022 was due to the fact Mr W wasnt set up for account 
alerts at the time. Santander says any default reported to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) would need to be factually correct as it has a responsibility to do so. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander acted in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card 
account and the statements make clear when the direct debit will be collected. The 
investigator says the reason why Mr W wasnt told of the unpaid direct debit, was due to the 
fact he wasnt registered for account alerts. The investigator pointed out Mr Ws credit card 
statements advise if he wants to change the payment due date he should contact Santander 
directly. The investigator felt Santander had to record factual information accurately with the 
CRAs. The investigator felt Santander had acted fairly here and it had also refunded the 
charges and interest as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr W, to learn the direct debit for his credit 
card account had been returned unpaid by his bank as it had been collected sooner than the 
due date.  
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander were at fault when it presented 
the direct debit earlier than the due date detailed on Mr Ws monthly credit card statement.
Mr Ws complaint centres around the fact over a number of years Santander had been 
presenting the direct debit for his credit card account to his joint bank account before the due 
date, and this resulted in it being returned unpaid in late March 2022. Mr W has also made 
the point he wasnt informed of this by Santander and its actions have resulted in his credit 
file being adversely affected causing him worry and upset. 
While I understand the points Mr W has raised here Im not fully persuaded by his argument. 
The first thing to say is I have looked at the credit card statements provided to this service 
and the statements show when the due date is and also from what date the direct debit 
might be collected.  
So, when looking at the credit card statement for March 2022 it does state the due date is 
the 28 March 2022 but the direct debit payment of £1,363.90 will be debited on or 
immediately after 25 March 2022. Here the direct debit was collected on the 25 March 2022 
from Mr Ws joint bank account but unfortunately there was insufficient funds available to 
meet the payment. 
I can see Mr W feels Santander should only collect the payment on the due date but as 
Santander have explained, to prevent payments being made late it would try to claim the 
direct debit at least one working day before the due date. So that is why on Mr Ws monthly 
credit card statement it clearly mentions the dates when the payment could be collected 
from.
Mr W has made the point the payment date and due dates on his credit card account have 
differed over many years, so its not clear why knowing that he didnt raise this with 
Santander before, if those dates were proving inconvenient for any reason. So, with that in 
mind it would make sense for Mr W to arrange with Santander a more convenient payment 
due date, perhaps later in the month. 
So, while I can understand this has been upsetting for Mr W its fair to say he was informed 
on his credit card statement in March 2022 that the direct debit could be collected from the 
25 March 2022, and it was his responsibility to ensure funds were available to meet it. So, I 
cant say Santander have made a mistake when it presented the direct debit when it did. Mr 
W says he wasnt informed of the unpaid direct debit, but I can see a letter addressed to his 
wife at the same address on 25 March 2022 on what weve been told was a joint bank 
account, so its reasonable to assume Mr W in all likelihood would have been made aware 
the direct debit had been returned. I also understand Mr W hadnt been previously registered 
for account alerts which may have helped him being notified sooner, but that has since been 
put in place. 
With regard to Mr Ws point regarding his credit file being adversely affected, its worth 
saying that for the reasons I have already given, Santander werent at fault for the payment 
being missed and in those circumstances it would have a responsibility to provide the 
relevant CRAs with accurate customer account activity. But here Santander have provided 
me with a copy of Mr Ws credit file from a named CRA and have confirmed no adverse 
information was recorded regarding that missed payment in March 2022. So hopefully that 
puts Mr Ws mind at rest over this concern. 
I can also see Santander, as a gesture of goodwill, agreed to refund Mr W with the late 
payment fee and interest, which I am satisfied was a fair gesture in the circumstances.  
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman