DRN-4339102
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about a credit card Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) provided to her. 
She says the limit on the credit card was irresponsibly increased after she had just had her 
daughter and was only receiving maternity allowance.
Background
Vanquis provided Mrs P with a credit card with an initial limit of £500 in September 2017. 
Mrs Ps credit limit was increased to £1,500.00 in June 2018. 
Mrs P was offered a further limit increase to £2,250.00 in December 2019. However, this 
offer was withdrawn before the increase took effect. And Mrs Ps credit limit never went 
above £1,500.00.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs P and Vanquis had told us. And he thought 
Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs P unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card or increasing the credit limit. So he didnt recommend that Mrs Ps complaint be 
upheld. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint.
Vanquis needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Vanquis needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mrs P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Vanquis says it initially agreed to Mrs Ps application after it obtained information on her 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mrs P 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Due to Mrs Ps 
account being relatively well managed she was then offered a credit limit increase to 
£1,500.00. 
On the other hand Mrs P says that she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mrs P was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that to start with Vanquis was required to understand whether a 
credit limit of £500 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one 
go. A credit limit of £500 required relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the full 
amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Vanquis credit check did indicate that Mrs P had had previous difficulties with credit in the 
form of a default and a satisfied county court judgement (CCJ). But its fair to say that these 
were historic given that theyd occurred more than five years prior to this application. And as 
Mrs P didnt have much in the way of active debts or commitments at the time of application, 
I dont think that it was unreasonable for Vanquis to rely on what Mrs P said about her 
income and expenditure during the call it had with her. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that the checks carried out before Mrs P was initially 
provided with her credit card were reasonable and proportionate.
For the credit limit increase, it appears as though Vanquis relied on Mrs P having been 
managed well in the nine months or so since her account had been opened. Im not 
necessarily persuaded that Mrs Ps account had been managed particularly well or that this 
was an indication that Mrs P should be lent up to a further £1,000.00. This is especially as it 
appears as though Mrs P went over her £500 credit limit in October 2017 and her balance 
hovered around the £500 mark from this point onwards. 
Im also mindful that although there wasnt anything in the way of any additional significant 
adverse information on the credit search Vanquis carried, Mrs P was nonetheless more 
indebted at this stage than she was when her initial card application was made. So I think 
that there were some signs that Vanquis needed to monitor going forward.
Furthermore, given the amount of the likely increased monthly payments as well as what 
Vanquis ought to have been aware of, I do think that it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Vanquis to find out a bit more about Mrs Ps regular living costs before 
offering the credit limit increase. As Vanquis didnt obtain this information, Ive considered 
the information Mrs P has provided with a view to deciding what it might have found out 
about Mrs Ps regular living costs had this information been asked for.
Having done so, I dont think that Vanquis would have made a different decision even if it 
had asked Mrs P for more information. I say this because the information Mrs P has 
provided about her finances at the time appears to show that when her committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from the funds going into 
her account, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mrs P has said about not working at the 
time because shed just had her daughter and only being in receipt of maternity allowance. 
But Mrs P was only recently on maternity leave. And it was very close this was to when the 
limit increase took place. Mrs P also said her household income was available to make 
repayments during the initial application call and most crucially Mrs P was receiving funds 
from family members into her account at the time. So, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that Vanquis would have found 
out that Mrs P wasnt working, or didnt had insufficient funds to make the repayments for an 
increased credit limit. This is even if it had tried to find out more about her circumstances at 
this time. 
Its possible that Mrs Ps position might have been worse than what it looks like, or that it 
worsened after the credit limit increase took place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that Vanquis should have known this was the case. This is 
especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have shown that Mrs P could repay what she could owe at the time the lending decision 
was made. 
So overall while I can understand Mrs Ps sentiments, I dont think that Vanquis treated       
Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her credit card or subsequently 
increasing her credit limit. And Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs P. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman