DRN-3948017
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered her in 
settlement of her claim on her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen. Mrs A is 
represented in this matter by Mr A, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs As car was stolen, and she made a claim on her policy. Admiral offered Mrs A £28,380, 
less the policy excess, in settlement of her claim. It said this was the cars market value at 
the date of its loss. But Mr A was unhappy as he said they couldnt replace the car with one 
with the same specification for this amount. He thought Admiral should increase its offer to 
about £34,000. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had correctly assessed the cars market value in keeping with our approach. She thought it 
had taken into account the cars factory-fitted extras. And so she thought Admiral didnt need 
to increase its offer. 
Mr A replied that the car was rare, and the specification added value. He thought used car 
prices had increased since the theft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs A wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. Im satisfied that 
Mrs As policy provides for her cars market value in the case of its total loss. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. The guides take 
into account market conditions at the date of loss. 
I can see that Admiral found valuations for the car at the date of its loss in two of the motor 
trade guides we use. I can see that it looked for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage 
and condition. And it also looked to see whether the cars optional extras added to its value. 
The average of the two valuations it found was £28,380. 
And I can see that our Investigator checked the other two trade guides we use, and these 
valuations were within the range of that offered by Admiral. The optional extras didnt add 
further value. And, as the guides offered valuations for the car, I cant conclude that it was 
rare. 
Mr A provided examples of similar cars offered for sale at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. I also note that the examples are for cars with lower mileage than 
Mrs As car.  
So Im satisfied that Admirals settlement offer was made correctly in keeping with our 
approach and the policys terms and conditions. And so I think it was fair and reasonable 
and I dont require Admiral to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman