DRN-3675830
The complaint
Mr F complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of Ireland Mortgages (BOI) 
delayed in releasing the deeds for his property, so his sale was delayed. Mr F wanted BoI to 
pay the mortgage costs and his household bills for the time the sale was delayed.
What happened
Mr F wanted to sell his house. To do this, his solicitor needed to obtain the deeds from his
mortgage company, BoI. Mr F said BoI took a very long time to release those deeds, and
this in turn caused delays with the sale. Mr F wanted BoI to cover the costs he incurred in
this period.
BOI said it received a request for deeds for Mr Fs property on 22 October 2021 from a local
firm of solicitors. Those solicitors said they were acting for Mr F in his sale. Mr F has since
said these solicitors were acting for the buyer, not him. But BoI said it had received a proper
request for the deeds, and it didnt think it had done anything wrong by relying on what those
solicitors had told it. So it ordered the deeds from storage, and sent them to that firm.
BoI wrote to Mr F at the same time, 6 November, to say it had issued his deeds. If they were
sent back instead of the mortgage being redeemed, BoI said it would charge £50 for that.
On 18 November, BoI got a letter from a different solicitors firm, who said they were acting
for Mr F in his sale, and they needed the deeds. So BoI wrote to the first firm, and on 25
November, the deeds came back. BoI charged £50, and put the deeds back in storage.
On 3 December, the second firm asked again for the deeds. And not long after this, Mr F
said that hed no idea why the first firm had asked for them. BoI ordered the deeds from
storage on 11 December, but didnt post them to Mr F until 11 January 2022. There appears
to have been a delay in the deeds being returned from storage.
BoI said that it does have a service standard of ten working days to get title deeds issued,
once they are requested. And it acknowledged that it took longer than this to get the deeds
to Mr F, once they were returned. BoI wanted to pay Mr F £100 for that.
BoI wouldnt pay more. It said it was sorry if Mr F had incurred additional costs due to his
property not yet being sold, but BoI didnt feel it was responsible for this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said shed seen the
relevant correspondence, and it wasnt unreasonable for BoI to release the deeds to the first
firm. BoI then got those back, and put them back into its secured storage. She said the £50
fee it charged for that was in line with the banks standard procedure.
Our investigator said that up to this point, what had gone wrong wasnt BoIs fault, and she
thought Mr F should talk to the first firm of solicitors about this.
She said BoI then took too long to get deeds sent to Mr Fs actual firm, and Mr F had spent
time chasing this up. But she said £100 compensation was fair for the delay which BoI
directly caused. She didnt think there was enough evidence to show that the time in getting
the deeds back directly delayed the sale. And she said we had to consider other factors. The
sale took three months after the deeds were issued to the right firm, so she thought the
timeframe for the sale was a natural circumstance of conveyancing and the overall legal
process. And that is outside of BoIs control.
Mr F didnt agree. He said if the deeds had been issued earlier, the sale would have
completed earlier. He said the extra time for the sale to be completed was due to a boundary
issue on the property which only came to light after his solicitor received the deeds. He sent
us an email from his solicitor dated 31 January, which said the solicitor was trying to resolve
this problem. Mr F said this problem was always going to show up, but it would have shown
up earlier if the bank had released the deeds within its own target timescales.
Mr F said BoI held the deeds for six weeks when its supposed turnaround to release them is
ten working days. He said it had cost him six weeks mortgage payment and rates.
Mr F wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Ive also seen the correspondence that BoI received from the first firm of solicitors, and I
dont think it was BoIs fault that these deeds were initially sent to the wrong place.
Because I dont think it was BoIs fault that these deeds were issued to the wrong place, 
and had to be returned, I dont think BoI has to refund the standard fee of £50 that it 
charges when deeds are returned to it.
Those deeds were then returned on 25 November. And BoI accepts it should issue 
deeds within ten working days.
I dont think its reasonable to start the clock for BoIs ten day deadline to issue deeds, 
before those deeds were available to it. But by 25 November, BoI had already received 
a request for the deeds from the second firm. So I do think its reasonable to start the 
clock, once the deeds were back with BoI. And that means I think the deeds should 
have been issued to the firm that was actually acting for Mr F, within ten working days of 
25 November. I think the deeds should have been sent on 9 December. The deeds were 
actually issued to Mr F on 11 January.
Although Mr Fs sale took some time after this to complete, Mr F has explained that this 
is due to the time taken resolving a problem which was only visible once the deeds were
received. I think that does mean that BoI is likely to have delayed Mr Fs sale, although 
by a little less than the six weeks that Mr F mentioned.
For those reasons, I think that BoI should refund to Mr F, any interest it charged on his 
mortgage from 9 December 2021 to 11 January 2022. And it should pay 8% simple 
interest on top of this, from the time that Mr F made the relevant payments to the time 
when BoI returns this money to him.
Mr F also wanted BoI to cover rates, insurance and utility costs for his home during this 
time. But I think these are ordinary living costs, which are outside of BoIs control, and which Mr F could be expected to either pay himself or contribute towards, wherever he 
lived. So I dont think BoI has to pay towards those costs.
Mr F also said that his buyers were threatening to pull out because of the delay, and this 
caused him very considerable stress. As I think BoI is responsible for a not insignificant 
part of this delay, I think it should pay more than the £100 it has offered Mr F. I think BoI 
should make a compensation payment of £250 in this case, to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused to Mr F.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F said he was happy with the outcome Id suggested. And BoI said it accepted my 
provisional decision. So neither side has offered any further evidence or argument. And I 
havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bank of Ireland Mortgages (BoI 
hereafter) must refund to Mr F, any interest it charged on his mortgage from 9 December 
2021 to 11 January 2022. And BoI must pay 8% simple interest on top of this, from the time 
that Mr F made the relevant payments to the time when BoI returns this money to him. (HM 
Revenue and Customs requires BoI to take off tax from this interest. BoI must give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.) 
And BoI must pay Mr F £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman