DRN-2784421
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited failed to provide 
her, in a timely manner, with the necessary information to allow her to move her pension 
savings into drawdown and access her pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax free cash).
What happened
I am dealing with similar complaints from both Mrs S, and her husband. They both had 
similar pension arrangements with Royal London and decided to access their PCLS 
payments at the same time. Much of the discussions, on both pensions, were undertaken by 
Mrs S. But given Mr and Mrs S held their pension savings separately it is right that I deal 
with their complaints separately too. But I am sure that Mr and Mrs S will understand, given 
the identical nature of their complaints, why the decisions I am issuing are similar.
Mrs S held pension savings with Royal London. On 31 January 2020 she got in touch with 
Royal London to enquire about taking a PCLS from those pension savings. On that call the 
advisor explained that in order to take the PCLS Mrs S would need to move her pension 
savings to a different product  a product that offered a flexible access income drawdown 
arrangement. Mrs S was told that she would be sent the necessary information to start that 
process immediately following the call.
Royal London accepts that it failed to send that information to Mrs S  it says it closed the 
work request by mistake. Around a week later, on 7 February, Mrs S complained to 
Royal London that she hadnt received the promised information. After a further week, on 
14 February, Royal London sent Mrs S the information via an encrypted email. Mrs S was 
unhappy opening that email so the information was sent to her once again on 18 February. 
Royal London then had a phone conversation with Mrs S to discuss her circumstances and 
the choices she was making on 20 February. An application pack was issued to Mrs S that 
day, but I understand it was never returned.
Mrs S made a new complaint to Royal London in March 2020. She pointed out that, by then, 
the value of her pension savings had fallen significantly, due to a fall in the global markets at 
the start of the coronavirus pandemic. So the amount of PCLS she was able to take had also 
fallen. She said that, but for the delays of Royal London, her PCLS would have been paid 
before the fall in the global markets. She asked Royal London to make up the difference.
Royal London accepted that it hadnt provided Mrs S with a reasonable level of service when 
she first asked to take her PCLS. It offered her £150 in compensation. But it didnt agree that 
it should make up any shortfall in the PCLS that was available to Mrs S. Mrs S didnt accept 
the compensation that Royal London offered so brought her complaint to this Service.
Mrs Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Royal London should be held responsible for Mrs Ss decision to not proceed with taking the 
PCLS payment due to the fall in its value. And he thought that the £150 Royal London had 
offered for the trouble and upset the initial delays had caused to Mrs S was reasonable. So 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs S and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is little dispute that Royal London failed to provide the information it had promised to 
Mrs S following her phone call on 31 January. But I dont share Mrs Ss concerns about why 
that information didnt get sent. Mrs S says that the advisor on that call failed to follow the 
correct processes, and provide her with all the necessary information about her options. So 
she thinks that, for compliance reasons, Royal London terminated its process.
I have listened to a recording of Mrs Ss call with Royal London on 31 January. Mrs S has 
expressed some concerns about that recording  she thinks it might have been edited 
because she recalls receiving some additional information about the likely processing 
timescales. But I can reassure Mrs S that the information she is referring to was actually 
provided on a later call with Royal London. So I am satisfied that the recording of the call we 
have been given by Royal London is an accurate, and complete, record of their 
conversation.
The call that Mrs S had with Royal London was only the start of the process. So I am not 
surprised that she wasnt given all the information that might be necessary to complete the 
process during that call. Following that call Royal London had further steps in its process to 
ensure that consumers were fully informed of their options before taking any decisions about 
how to use their pension savings  it sent information packs to consumers and then followed 
that up with a longer, carefully scripted, telephone call.
I accept that Mrs S might have found it useful if Royal London had set out in detail the steps 
she would need to take before receiving her PCLS during that call. But I dont think that it 
failing to do so has put her at any disadvantage. As Ill now explain I think that Royal London 
provided all the necessary information to Mrs S before allowing her to make any irrevocable 
decisions about her pension savings.
The information that Royal London belatedly sent to Mrs S, and the conversation it had with 
her by telephone, were designed to ensure that she had a full understanding of the choices 
she was making. Royal London suggested that it might be appropriate for Mrs S to seek 
independent financial advice before completing the transaction. But this wasnt something 
Mrs S was required to do, and she declined Royal Londons suggestion. I dont think it was inappropriate for Royal London to proceed with Mrs Ss request on an execution only basis.
On both the telephone call, and in the information she was sent, Mrs S was told that she 
wasnt required to take her pension benefits from Royal London. Both information sources 
explained that it would be possible, without any penalty, for her to transfer her pension 
savings to another provider. And the literature noted that better annuity rates might be 
available from other providers.
It seems to me that Mrs Ss request to take her PCLS was delayed by around two weeks 
because of Royal Londons failure to send her the initial information. But the impact of that 
delay meant that when Mrs S was ready to complete her application, after reviewing the 
information Royal London had sent and completing its telephone information process, the 
value of her pension savings had fallen. So it appears that Mrs S decided not to proceed 
with that application at that time.
The values that Royal London provided to Mrs S in relation to her pension savings were not 
guaranteed. The value of her pension savings would change daily in response to changes in 
the underlying assets they were invested in. So whilst it is unfortunate, and no doubt 
extremely disappointing for Mrs S, that their value fell at the time she was considering taking 
her PCLS I cannot reasonably conclude that was the responsibility of Royal London. I 
havent seen anything that gives me any confidence I can reasonably assess when, or if, 
Mrs S would have completed any PCLS application if the information from Royal London had 
been provided sooner.
Mrs S chose not to take her PCLS in March 2020. That is entirely understandable given the 
fall in the value of her pension savings. But I have noted that the value of her pension 
savings has now risen, and when Royal London last provided us with information, had 
exceeded the valuation in February 2020. So whilst I entirely accept the disappointment 
Mrs S will have experienced in not accessing her PCLS in 2020, she will in fact most likely 
receive a higher PCLS payment as a result, although of course the value of that payment will 
still ultimately be subject to any changes in the underlying valuation of her pension savings. 
So I cannot conclude that any delays have reduced the PCLS payment to which Mrs S 
would have been entitled in February or March 2020..
Royal London has acknowledged that its service fell short of the standards it would normally 
expect. And it offered Mrs S £150 for the trouble and upset shed been caused. I think that is 
a reasonable offer, and I wouldnt expect to award anything higher in circumstances such as 
these. It appears that Mrs S returned the cheque that Royal London sent to her. 
Royal London should ensure that Mrs S is offered this compensation once more.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman