DRN-3155405
The complaint
Mr G complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited charged him an unreasonable 
fee when he cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr G bought a motor insurance policy through Endsleigh, an insurance broker. 
He chose to pay his premium by monthly instalments. Endsleigh used a third party company 
(referred to in this decision as P) to finance this. P collected the premiums monthly by direct 
debit.
In August and September 2018, Mr G had a dispute about his monthly payments. Following 
this dispute, he cancelled his policy. Endsleigh wrote to Mr G on 3 November 2018 
confirming his policy had been cancelled and charged him a £75 cancellation fee.
Mr G complained to Endsleigh about his premium dispute and the unreasonable 
cancellation fee. Endsleigh said P was a separate company and he should direct his 
complaint about his monthly premiums to P. It explained why it charged additional fees and 
didnt agree that its cancellation fee was unreasonable.
Mr G was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said, in summary:
Endsleigh failed to acknowledge his problems with P.
Endsleigh simply passed the buck by referring this to P.
Endsleighs cancellation fee was unreasonable because it was much higher than 
other companies.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She explained 
that Endsleigh was only responsible for the cancellation fee. She was satisfied that the fee 
was clearly set out in Mr Gs policy terms, and it was reasonable for Endsleigh to charge 
this.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its important to be clear that Im only considering Endsleighs actions. I know Mr G 
feels that Endsleigh should be held accountable given its relationship with P and because he 
had no say in who collected his monthly payments. However, P  not Endsleigh  was 
responsible for setting up Mr Gs direct debt and collecting his monthly premium. Mr G raised 
a separate complaint with P about his August/September 2018 payments, so I wont be 
covering that here.
The policy cancellation fee is set out in Mr Gs policy documents: 
Page 8 of Mr Gs policy booklet (Cancellation) says: Details regarding cancellation, 
termination and fees relating to Your Motor Policy can be found in Your Statement of 
Insurance. 
Page 2 of his statement of insurance (Fees, charges and cancellation) says: If you 
cancel more than 14 days after purchasing your policy, a charge will be made based 
on the number of days you have had cover. We will also charge a cancellation fee of 
£75.00.
Mr G took out the policy in July 2018 and cancelled it at the start of November 2018. Thats 
well after the end of the 14-day cancellation period, so under the policy terms Endsleigh had 
the right to charge the cancellation fee. The only question for me is whether its decision to 
charge the fee was reasonable.
Mr G told us he cancelled his policy because his circumstances had changed. So I dont 
think Mr G argues that he shouldnt have to pay a fee. Instead, he believes £75 is too much. 
He compared it to the same fee charged by other insurance intermediaries. 
Endsleigh had to carry out administrative work when Mr G cancelled his policy and I think its 
reasonable for it to charge a fee for this. I dont think Mr Gs dispute with P affects this. 
This service isnt a regulator and it isnt our role to set prices for this sort of work. Having 
said that, I dont think Endsleighs fee is so high  whether compared to its competitors or on 
a stand-alone basis  as to be unfair.
I understand Mr G is in financial difficulties and Id expect Endsleigh to be sympathetic to 
this. However, I dont think its cancellation fee was unreasonable or its decision to charge 
this fee was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman