The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc sent her new credit card and PIN in the same 
envelope.
What happened
Miss S says she applied for a new Santander credit card and on her return from holiday 
opened a letter from Santander in the presence of a family member. She says the new credit 
card and the PIN were in the same envelope and was concerned about the security 
implications. Miss S says she spoke to Santander about this and it insinuated that she had 
lied about had happened. She would like compensation for what took place and an apology.
Santander says the card and PIN are made at two different sites and so couldn't be in the 
same envelope.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had provided evidence the card and PIN were made at two different sites 
on different dates. The investigator didn't think it possible to conclude there was a mistake 
and in any event couldn't recommend compensation for what may have happened.
Miss S doesn't accept that view  and says only one of the letters was dated, and she has the 
one envelope she was sent. She believes Santander has made a mistake and says she 
should receive compensation and an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have no reason to doubt what Miss S says, that she received the two letters in one 
envelope. And I'm also satisfied that Santander uses two separate locations to produce the 
account cards and PIN. So I accept there would be no reason, or that it would not be 
possible, for the PIN and account cards to be sent in one envelope.
So in those circumstances I can't be sure what has taken place here and I have no reason to 
doubt what either party says. I accept it is possible something has taken place during the 
delivery of mail that has meant the letters were placed into one envelope. But that is 
something Miss S would need to check with the business that delivered this mail and not 
something Santander would be responsible for.
I'm satisfied in any event Miss S did not suffer any financial loss and her account was 
DRN-1627507not compromised. In those circumstances I can't fairly order compensation for what may 
have taken place. And as I can't be sure Santander has made a mistake, then I can't fairly 
order it to apologise.
I appreciate that Miss S says Santander insinuated she had lied. But I'm satisfied that 
Santander has said it couldn't have placed the card and PIN in the same envelope. I don't 
think by setting out its position that it suggested Miss S was not telling the truth.
Overall I accept there will be unanswered questions about what took place. But I'm satisfied 
there was no financial loss and even if Santander had placed both items in the same letter 
that would still be the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman