DRN-2749462
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc didnt supply him with a replacement 
security token in a timely manner, such that he incurred financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr P contacted Co-operative Bank in March 2020 to request a replacement security token to 
enable him to access his business account online. Mr P wanted to access his account to 
provide proof of his bank balance to his accountant, who was working to compile and submit 
accounts for Mr Ps business to Companies House.
Despite several chases to Co-operative Bank, Mr P didnt receive the replacement security 
token until July 2020. This meant that his accounts werent able to be submitted until such 
time that they were late to the degree that they incurred a penalty fine of £1,500 from 
Companies House. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Co-operative Bank looked at Mr Ps complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt provided 
Mr P with the replacement security token as quickly as they would have liked, but they didnt 
think that they should be held responsible for the totality of the fine that Mr P incurred, 
especially as he was already late in submitting his account and had incurred a £750 fine at 
the time that he first approached Co-operative Bank. So, Co-operative Bank apologised to 
Mr P for the delay and made payments totalling £280 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience he had incurred.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Co-operative Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that it was 
reasonable to ask Co-operative Bank to fully cover the additional expense that Mr P had 
incurred, and they felt that Co-operatives complaint response represented a fair resolution 
to the complaint - especially given that Co-operative had offered to provide a further £75 
payment to Mr P to further compensate him for what had happened. So, they didnt uphold 
the complaint either.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed by either party here that Co-operative Bank did delay the provision of the 
replacement security token to Mr P, and Co-operative Bank have acknowledged this point 
and made compensatory payments to Mr P totalling £280 as well as offering a further £75 to 
Mr P because of this.
The question I have to answer is whether I feel that Co-operative Bank, because of the delay 
in providing the security token to Mr P, should cover in full the additional £750 cost of the 
fine that Mr Ps business received from Companies House, given that the level of the fine 
being imposed increased from £750 to £1,500 during the time from Mr P first requesting the 
replacement security token and the time that he eventually received it.
Ultimately, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable to instruct Co-operative Bank to 
pay Mr P the £750 he would like here, even in consideration that Co-operative Bank have 
acknowledged that they were responsible for the delay in the provision of the replacement 
security token. 
I say this because, at the time the Mr P first approached Co-operative Bank in March 2020, 
the business accounts that he was seeking to submit were already almost one year past the 
Companies House accounts submission due date, and a fine of £750 had already been 
incurred. Indeed, the sanction of the higher fine of £1,500 by HMRC is only imposed when a 
business is significantly late in submitting its annual accounts.
This means that, while Co-operative Bank were responsible for a delay in providing a 
replacement security token for Mr P, which may have caused a delay in the submission of 
the business accounts, it isnt the case that this delay can be considered as being the sole 
cause of Mr P incurring the additional £750 fine. And this is because the business accounts 
being still outstanding at such a late time, such that a higher level of fine could be incurred, 
is also because of the actions of Mr P in not filing those accounts sooner. 
So, while I can understand Mr Ps frustration that the higher level of fine was incurred here, I 
cant fairly say that Co-operative Bank are solely responsible for this, and it follows that I 
dont feel that it would be fair for me to instruct Co-operative Bank to fully cover the 
additional cost.
Additionally, Im also not convinced that, during the time that Co-operative Bank delayed 
providing the replacement security token, Mr P couldnt have done more to obtain the 
information needed by his accountant in order to submit the overdue accounts. For instance, 
this information would have been available on any paper statements for the account that Mr 
P had received, and replacement statements could have been ordered in branch or via the 
telephone if they were needed.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Co-operative Banks admission of error and offers 
of compensation to Mr P, including the outstanding offer of a further £75, are fair and 
reasonable here, and are commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Co-operative Bank to 
take any further action at this time, beyond that to which they have already agreed. I realise 
this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, given 
everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.          l    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman