DRN-1905068
 
The complaint
Miss W says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says she was in financial difficulty when LAH approved loans for her and she couldnt 
afford the weekly repayments. She says the representative completed the paperwork on her 
behalf.  
What happened
This complaint is about 51 home collected credit loans LAH provided to Miss W between 
April 2002 and December 2017. Ive included a table that shows some of the lending.  And 
Ive assumed both parties are aware of the detail of all of the lending. 
loan number date startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 04/04/2002 £1,080.00 27/05/2010
2 09/06/2005 £250.00 27/05/2010
3 27/05/2010 £250.00 16/12/2010
4 11/11/2010 £125.00 19/05/2011
5 16/12/2010 £250.00 16/06/2011
lending continues without a break
47 23/03/2017 £750.00 02/11/2017
48 27/07/2017 £375.00 outstanding
49 28/09/2017 £375.00 outstanding
50 02/11/2017 £1,000.00 outstanding
51 21/12/2017 £500.00 outstanding
LAH has looked at the complaint and it only offered to pay compensation for loans 27 to 32. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that LAH was wrong to have 
approved loans 3 to 51. This is because she thought it was evident that Miss W was in 
financial difficulty and the pattern of lending itself was harmful.  
LAH didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws 
complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
I cant look at any of the lending that was approved before 6 April 2007 as I dont have the 
powers to do so. But the first two loans were part of the borrowing relationship Miss W had 
with LAH. So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 51 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending 
history with Miss W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LAH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
LAH should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 3. I say this because:
At this point LAH ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss W had been indebted to LAH for over eight years. This is a 
very long time to need to repay two loans and I think its real indicator of financial 
problems. LAH shouldve realised it was more likely that not Miss Ws indebtedness 
was unsustainable.
And there was further evidence that Miss W was struggling financially both at the 
time of loan 3 and going forwards. Added to the length of time taken to repay loans 
one and two Miss Ws only source of income seems to have been benefits. And I can 
see her house was repossessed in 2008. Going forward she defaults on other credit 
commitments and received a county court judgement. I cant see how, taking all of 
this together, it could be reasonable to say that Miss W was financially secure. 
Right from the outset Miss W was provided with a new loan within a short period of 
time, or before she repaid, her previous one. She often had more than one loan 
running at the same time.
And as LAH has acknowledged she did struggle to repay these loans at times, 
particularly loans 27 to 32. But LAH still lent under these circumstances.
Miss W didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed LAH. Loan 51 was 
taken out over 15 years after Miss Ws first. Miss W had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to LAH over an extremely long time.
I think that Miss W lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Miss W borrowed was likely 
to have had negative implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit 
and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 51 and LAH should put things right.
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Miss W loans 3 to 51.
If LAH has sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if LAH is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then LAH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
LAH has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss W having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. LAH shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal LAH have already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Ws borrowing for loans 3 to 51, including refinances and or 
top-ups, means any information recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove 
these loans entirely from Miss Ws credit file. LAH does not have to remove loans 48 to 51 
from Miss Ws credit file until these have been repaid, but LAH should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted, if she ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman