DRN-3503544
The complaint
Miss G complains Vauxhall Finance Plc (Vauxhall) wrongly charged her £748 for GAP 
insurance and other warranty products. She noticed the charge when she settled her finance 
agreement but says she declined these products at the point of sale and has the paperwork
to prove this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators view of 12 May 2022, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on 
giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Firstly, as Vauxhall directed Miss G to raise her complaint with the dealership, its important 
to say why this service can look into the complaint, as our investigator detailed in his view.
Miss G entered into a conditional sale agreement and, such agreements, are regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974(CCA 1974). Section 56 of the CCA 1974 says that a finance 
provider is responsible for any antecedent negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In 
this case, the dealership acted as Vauxhalls agent in respect of this agreement. So, 
Vauxhall are responsible for anything the dealership said, did, or didnt do about the contract 
it was brokering before it was entered into. It is for this reason I agree with our investigator 
that this service can consider the complaint against Vauxhall.
I have considered the agreement and can see under Section 4, as has been previously 
mentioned, Gap and warranty insurance were included at a cost of £811.22 and Miss G 
signed this agreement on 3 August 2017.
But Miss G has also provided this service with a document entitled Duty of Care Document 
this was signed by both Miss G and the dealership representative on 2 August 2017.
This document says:
Following our discussions, you have decided to purchase:
Minor Damage Repair Cover
And then goes on:
Following our discussions, you have declined or are unable at the moment, to purchase:
Asset Protection Insurance
Tyre/Alloy Wheel Damage Cover
Warranty/Guarantee
The dispute here is that Miss G says she declined this cover at the point of sale as indicated 
on the duty of care document and Vauxhall doesnt accept this is evidence that she declined 
Gap Insurance or cosmetic warranty cover.
The invoice for the sale details Asset Protection Insurance and SMART insurance has 
been included at a cost of £349 and £399 respectively. This is consistent with the products 
included in Miss Gs agreements.
So, where there are inconsistencies or in this case where the wording in unclear, I have to 
reach a decision based upon a balance of probabilities. That is to say what I think is more 
likely the case.
Im persuaded the duty of care document show Miss G accepted minor repair cover but in 
declining the asset protection insurance. So, she accepted the SMART Insurance but 
declined the Asset Protection or Gap Insurance and so Im going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, Im upholding this complaint and I direct Vauxhall Finance Plc 
to:
Refund Miss G for the amount shes paid towards the GAP insurance which is
£378.35, inclusive of interest.
Pay Miss G 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman