DRN-4014057
The complaint
Mr N has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unreasonably and unfairly refused to 
refund him £4,000 which was transferred out of his bank account on 3 June 2022 when his 
phone was stolen when he was abroad. Mr N states he didnt authorise the two transactions 
one of £500 and the other of £3,500 to payees he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr N was abroad and out with some friends. He said his phone was stolen and someone 
texted or messaged one of his friends to explain how he would get his phone. That resulted 
in varying messages for Mr N to travel about the area in order to obtain his phone. Sadly, his 
phone was not recovered. Then Mr N found out two payments to payees he didnt recognise 
had been made from his account. So, he asked HSBC to refund this.
HSBC said that due to the multiple levels of security built into the mobile banking log on 
process, it was unlikely the security credentials would be known by anyone without Mr Ns 
knowledge. Therefore, it felt entitled to rely on the authorisation provided to transfer the 
funds and so could not provide any refund.
So, Mr N brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that his complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said that logins to Mr Ns mobile phone were authorised by Face ID 
and to set that up some would have had to log into Mr Ns mobile banking app using the 
passcode and enable biometrics. And as Mr N said his passwords werent written down or 
stored anywhere, he felt the passcode must have been known to the party logging in to 
HSBCs banking app. Therefore, its most likely Mr N authorised the disputed transactions 
himself or allowed someone else to do so.
Mr N didnt agree as he said he had never used Face ID. He also said the details to who the 
payments were made are known but HSBC never investigated them. He also said the 
passcode for the banking app was very similar to that to access his phone too. And why 
wasnt he informed such large amounts were being transferred from his account. So, Mr Ns 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February and I said the following:
  
First, I do accept what HSBC has said about all the proper security processes being 
used to authenticate the logins and payments. However, I dont consider this is 
sufficient, in itself, to show Mr N authorised the payments.
I consider the evidence is clear that Mr Ns phone was stolen as he has provided 
evidence of the varying texts messages sent to his friends by the thief or their 
associates showing he was being sent on a wild goose chase of the area where he 
was abroad to buy his phone back. Mr N was also clear that he was in public spaces 
that day with lots of people about and he was using his phone to take pictures as he 
was abroad.
I consider it was possible that Mr Ns phone when stolen might not have locked itself 
again, or that he was observed entering his passcode to open his phone. Mr N has 
said his passcode to access his phone and to access his banking for HSBC account 
were similar. I do consider that it was unwise of Mr N to have chosen such a similar 
passcode, but I dont consider reaches the standard of gross negligence required 
show he was at fault. There is a limit in my view of how many passcodes people are 
expected to remember for all the devices and apps now required without noting them 
down. So, I dont necessarily consider Mr N here has wilfully disregarded any 
obvious risk.
The disputed transactions were achieved via Face ID. Mr N is adamant he has never 
used Face ID at all. The log in details around 3 June 2022 (the date of the disputed 
transactions) show that Mr Ns account was logged in to via a pin from 31 March to 3 
June 2022 which matches what Mr N has told us. On one screenshot it shows that 
Face ID was used seven times to access his account on 3 June 2022 and in the 
second screenshot Mr Ns account was accessed around 19 times again all on 3 
June 2022, again using Face ID. Sadly, there appears to be no way of knowing which 
actual face was used for this ID, but it seems most likely to me it was not Mr N. And 
obviously once a person is safely in an app such security details are easily changed 
too. The design of Mr Ns mobile phone or indeed the HSBC banking app has of 
course nothing to do with Mr N whatsoever.
That in turn shows its most likely it was not Mr N who authorised the disputed 
transactions which were done also on 3 June 2022.
It also appears from the evidence produced by HSBC that an internal transfer from 
Mr Ns savings account also available on the app to what I assume is his current of 
£2,000. And HSBC clearly knows where the disputed of transactions of £500 and 
then £3,500 went. It believes we should contact those institutions ourselves. It also 
appears HSBC stopped a further £500 transaction. However, there is no information 
as why it did that. But it does beg the question if that transfer was stopped then why 
werent the disputed transactions also. So, taking all of the above into consideration, 
Im not of the view that that its fair and reasonable for HSBC to refuse to refund 
these disputed transactions to Mr N with interest as I am satisfied they were not 
authorised by Mr N. Mr N also complained that he has no access to his account 
which should also reviewed and sorted out with access should Mr N still require it 
being permitted.
This has caused Mr N considerable distress and inconvenience, he was left in a 
foreign country without access to his account plus he was put to significant further 
trouble in gathering together all the screenshots and messages between his friends 
and the thief. Therefore, I consider HSBC should also pay compensation in the sum 
of £400.
Mr N accepted my provisional decision. HSBC didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that I am upholding this complaint. Since Mr N agreed and HSBC didnt proffer any further information, there is no reason for 
me for to change my mind from the reasoning detailed above in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I now require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to do the following:
Refund Mr N the amount of £4,000.
Add interest of 8% simple from the date of the transactions to the date to the date of 
its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr N for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr N the sum of £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman