DRN-4197194
The complaint
Mr N complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (UKI) handled the 
cancellation and refund of premium under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N bought a policy with UKI in 2021. The policy renewed in January 2022. He then sold 
his car in June 2022 and cancelled the policy.
Mr N paid for his 2022 policy using a third-party finance company, who Ill refer to as P. He 
paid a monthly amount to P. P paid UKI the annual premium to UKI on his behalf.
When he cancelled the policy, UKI told him that he was due a refund. 
It applied a £50 cancellation fee and said it refunded the due amount by cheque. Mr N didnt 
receive the cheque.
Mr N complained. UKI refunded £109.85 to a payment card Mr N had used in 2021 when 
hed bought his original policy. Mr N didnt use that account any more, but he later confirmed 
that the money had been received into this bank account.
P chased Mr N for his monthly payments, but Mr N told it hed cancelled his policy. He 
contacted both P and UKI several times to sort out the cancellation. 
UKI apologised for Mr Ns inconvenience and waived its cancellation fee. But it said Mr N 
owed it money from the time hed been on cover with it. It said he owed £114.07, which is 
the amount of the refund it had sent him plus the remainder of the premium. It said it wasnt 
able to recover the money itd paid into Mr Ns account because the card details had expired.
Mr N remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He is unhappy about 
UKIs service. He says he has had to do its work for it and hed expect UKI to inform B about 
the cancellation of his policy. He says hed have paid the small charge he owed for cover, 
and the cancellation fee, but he thinks UKI should take account of its errors and waive the 
amount he owes.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she thought UKI 
had made errors, but Mr N had still received the mistakenly-paid refund and had benefitted 
from it. She thought it was fair of UKI to waive the cancellation fee of £50. 
Mr N didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider things further. This is set out 
below:
Its my role to look at UKIs actions and decide whether what it did around cancelling Mr Ns 
insurance policy was fair and reasonable. 
I can see from the file that UKI made an error when it originally told Mr N that he would get a 
refund. I think I should mention that, perhaps, Mr N should have realised that he had 
separate agreements with P and UKI and queried the amount at that point. But I take his 
point that hes not an expert in these matters.
Our investigator asked UKI why it used Mr Ns previous card details to carry out a refund and 
it said it had to use those to comply with money laundering legislation. I take UKIs point 
here, but Mr N didnt use those payment details to pay his premium  P paid it for him. So I 
cant follow UKIs logic in this situation  it should have refunded P.
I would normally expect to see UKI notify P when the policy has been cancelled. In this case, 
it took UKI two months to do this because of the way it was set up on its system. In Mr Ns 
case, this meant that UKI had to manually access his account before it realised the refund 
shouldnt have been made to him. I dont think this is good enough service for UKI and Id 
expect that it would be able to not make the original error, or be able to recognise its error 
much faster.
All of this leaves Mr N in a situation where he has benefitted somewhat by an amount being 
paid into an old bank account. I understand that Mr N no longer uses that account, but its 
also clear from his evidence that the bank account in question has some value to him.
Mr N also owes UKI £4.22 for the remaining premium, which Ive calculated from the final 
amount owing less the refund UKI sent (£114.07-109.85).
Taking everything into account, I think the fair outcome here is that Mr N pays UKI the £4.22 
he owes for the time on risk, and UKI waives the refund it paid in error. Im not intending to 
award Mr N anything extra for his distress and inconvenience because he has the benefit of 
an amount in a bank account, and because UKI has already waived its £50 cancellation fee.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N accepted my provisional decision. UKI responded and didnt agree. It said it had 
waived its cancellation fee because of its mistake. It didnt think Mr N should be able to keep 
the money itd refunded to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read UKIs response to my provisional decision carefully. Its position is that it admits it 
made an error, but Mr N wasnt entitled to the money it had paid him. 
But I dont agree. I asked UKI to tell me how it had set up the premium payment plan with 
the third-party finance company and it responded that it use a manual process to do this. 
What this would seem to mean is that, when Mr N cancelled the policy, there was no 
automatic way of unwinding the plan and that UKI needed to do this manually as well. 
From the evidence I have, UKI didnt do this, and I cant say thats in any way Mr Ns fault. 
Then UKI issued a refund, once by cheque and then into his bank. So at any point it should 
have realised the error and checked with Mr N. 
He then had to call UKI repeatedly to fix the error it reasonably caused. And Ive said above 
it took two months for UKI to manually verify what its mistake had been. I can see from Mr Ns evidence that he was frustrated by UKIs lack of ability to understand 
the position he was in and that he feels he has effectively had to do UKIs job for it. 
Put simply, I dont think its fair that UKI made a series of errors with Mr Ns account over a 
period of time, and then ask for the money to be returned. Mr N has explained he was happy 
to pay for the remaining time he was on cover and I think this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K  
Insurance Limited trading as Darwin to waive £109.85 from Mr Ns account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman