DRN-2252023
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
What happened
Mrs M opened a store card account in a shop in 1999. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ms store card 
each month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms told us she wasnt given a choice about the PPI. Ive seen a copy of her 
application for the store card. It includes a section on Account Cover (a form of PPI). It 
instructs the applicant only to sign if they require the cover. Mrs M signed specifically to 
indicate that she wished to take the cover.
I acknowledge that Mrs M says the shop assistant filled in the form, told her insurance 
would be added and told her to sign at the bottom. She says she signed for the policy as 
she was under the impression this was needed to complete her application. But I think 
that it would have been clear to Mrs M from the way the form was set out that the PPI 
was optional, and Id have expected Mrs M to check the form over before signing it. 
Overall, Im satisfied, on balance, that she decided to take it, knowing that she had a 
choice - although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many 
years later.
AXA didnt advise Mrs M to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs M enough information to enable her 
to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed have had 
of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Mrs Ms told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. And she says shed have been entitled 
to a redundancy package. But if Mrs M had made a successful claim on the PPI for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what 
she owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit 
agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been repaid- 
whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have covered Mrs M for longer than 
shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay she received from her employer. So I think 
the policy could have been useful for Mrs M.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that I think she chose to take it out - so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now, so long after 
the event. She was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
In the section about Account Cover on the application form, it says Please debit my 
Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. Im satisfied that it would 
have been clear that thered be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And since Mrs M 
was paying for the policy monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if her 
circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs M off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything that AXA may have done wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about there being an 
argument that shed have been better off financially if shed been off sick, as she wouldnt 
have had to pay for essentials like travel. Shes also mentioned that the average time shed 
have been off work was one week. But the PPI was designed to cover unexpected events, 
and Mrs M couldnt have been sure shed never be off work for an extended period. And the 
pay she received from her employer would have halved after six months, which would have 
made a significant difference to her monthly income. I think its unlikely that any money shed 
have saved through not going to work would have outweighed this. So these points dont 
change my conclusion.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman