DRN-3499900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint relates to a mortgage endowment policy for which Phoenix Life 
Limited is responsible. They have said that they didnt surrender the policy in 2005 and didnt 
receive any funds from it. They want Phoenix to pay them the value of the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out their endowment policy with a life assurance company I will call S.  
The policy was transferred to Phoenix in 2005. 
On 23 September 2005, following a request from Mr and Mrs K, Phoenix provided them with 
an illustration of the surrender value of their policy.
Four days later, Phoenix received a handwritten letter signed by both Mr and Mrs K asking 
that the policy be surrendered. The letter enclosed their marriage certificate, a bank 
statement and utility bill as proof of identity and address.
The policy was surrendered on 4 October 2005 and a cheque was sent to Mr and Mrs K the 
following day.
Mr K made enquiries with Phoenix in 2021 about the policy. Phoenix confirmed that the 
policy had been surrendered in 2005, the value paid out by cheque and the cheque had 
been cashed. Mr K said that he had no knowledge of the surrender and couldnt remember 
having received the money. He also said that if a cheque had been issued, he might not 
have received it as hed moved around a lot.
Phoenix responded by explaining that as the surrender happened so long ago, it had limited 
records. However, it had a copy of the surrender request signed by Mr and Mrs K, which was 
dated shortly before the surrender was processed. Its records indicated that a cheque was 
issued for the surrender value. It pointed out that when the surrender happened, the monthly 
premium of over £110 per month stopped being collected from Mr Ks bank account. It also 
had no evidence that the surrender proceeds had been chased, indicating they had been 
received. It didnt uphold the complaint. However, it did offer him £150 for the delay in it 
providing information about the policy and responding to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs K werent happy with the response from Phoenix and asked this service to 
consider the complaint. They told us that they didnt receive the surrender cheque in 2005 as 
theyd sold the house and moved into temporary accommodation. Mr and Mrs K confirmed 
that they didnt give Phoenix their new address and they hadnt been aware at that time that 
the policy was no longer provided by the original life assurance company. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs K said that they didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that they 
thought someone had defrauded them of the money from their endowment policy. They 
wanted to know when the cheque had been issued by Phoenix and when it had been 
cashed, so they could check with their bank. They said they thought there were a lot of 
questions to be answered and they felt there had been a cover-up by Phoenix. They asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
Subsequently, Phoenix provided Mr and Mrs K with further details of the cheque they could 
provide to their bank if they wanted to make further enquiries with it.
It was also established from publicly available property records that the address 
Mr and Mrs K provided evidence of when they asked to surrender the policy was owned by 
them until March 2006. They confirmed that while they still owned the property Phoenix had 
sent its correspondence to, they hadnt been living in the property for some time before the 
sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence provided by Phoenix shows that Mr and Mrs K made enquiries about the value 
of the policy in the autumn of 2005. That information was sent to their residential address 
and it appears that it was received, as a surrender request was made only a few days later.
While Mr and Mrs K have said that they dont remember having made that request or the 
subsequent one to surrender the policy, I have no reason to doubt that they were made. I 
say this as the original documentation that was provided to prove identity and address was 
not something I would expect anyone else to have  Mr and Mrs Ks marriage certificate and 
a recent bank statement and council tax bill. It is also clear that at least the council tax bill 
was the original, not a copy. While I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs K may not remember 
surrendering the endowment policy, given the passage of time, I am satisfied that the 
evidence from 2005 shows they did.
Phoenix hasnt been able to provide the letter that would have enclosed the cheque that was 
sent out. However, as Mr and Mrs K were allowed to surrender the policy themselves, 
without involvement of their lender, it would appear the policy was not assigned to the 
lender. This means that the cheque would have been sent to the correspondence address 
Phoenix had on file for Mr and Mrs K; that which they had evidenced with the bank 
statement and council tax bill. Although Mr and Mrs K initially said that that property was sold 
around that time, it doesnt appear that it was sold until several months after the cheque was 
issued by Phoenix. While it isnt clear if Mr and Mrs K were living in the property at the time 
the cheque was sent to them, the house was still theirs and so they would have had access 
to their post.
Having made the request to surrender the policy, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs K would 
have been expecting the proceeds to be sent to them. Had they not received the money I 
would have expected them to have questioned this with Phoenix, but there is no evidence 
they did. 
At such a distance in time, I dont think it is going to be possible for anyone to confirm into 
which bank account the cheque was paid. This is simply because financial services 
companies, including banks, arent required to keep records for more than six years. This 
transaction took place more than 16 years before Mr K raised concerns about not having 
had the money from the policy. 
I note that Mr and Mrs K think that something underhand has happened in relation to their 
policy, and that may have happened at Phoenix. However, I have seen no evidence that is the case. The evidence indicates that they made the surrender request and the cheque was 
sent to them at the address they owned and had access to, even if they werent living in it. 
As our investigator has explained, in order to uphold this complaint I must be persuaded that 
Phoenix did something wrong. The evidence in this case doesnt show that is what 
happened here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman