DRN-3614656
The complaint
X has complained that Barclays Bank mis-sold X a package bank account.
What happened
X held a fee-paying Graduate Additions account from 9 October 2006 to 14 January 2017 
when the account was migrated to a fee-paying Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack. 
X has complained that X was mis-sold the Tech Pack account. One of our Adjudicators 
considered Xs complaint about the sale of The Tech Pack account but didnt think it should 
be upheld. As X disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X has explained that X was told X had to have the Tech Pack account to continue with the 
account. 
Barclays has told us that on 14 January 2017 Xs Graduate Additions account was migrated 
to the Tech Pack account as Barclays had decided to withdraw the Graduate Additions 
account from the range of accounts it offered. And I think this is most likely what happened 
at the time.
Barclays was required to give notice of this change and make it clear that this change was 
optional. Barclays has explained that it sent a letter explaining this and has provided a copy 
of this letter.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the letter sent to X dated 21 October 2016. The 
letter explains that Xs account is migrating to the Tech Pack account. The letter gives 
information about the benefits associated with the account and the option to have a fee-free 
account without the Tech Pack. The letter gave more than two months notice that the 
Graduate additions account would be changing to the Tech Pack account on 13 January 
2017 unless X made contact.
On 20 January 2017 Barclays sent a second letter to X confirming the migration of the 
previous account to the Tech Pack account. This letter outlined the benefits of the account 
again and explained Packs are optional, so you can remove Tech Pack or add other Packs 
at any time
Considering the information that was sent to X I think Barclays met its obligation of giving 
notice of the migration. I also think X would have been aware that X had a choice whether to 
continue with the account or not.
X has further complained that Barclays should have monitored the account more closely and 
noticed that the Tech Pack account was not being used. But X was still able to take 
advantage of the benefits offered by the Tech Pack account and Barclays had no obligation 
to monitor if the benefits were used or not. How the Benefits were used were up to X to 
decide.
In summary I think Barclays met its obligations when Xs account migrated from the 
Graduate Additions account to a Tech Pack account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman