DRN-3751040
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have closed his account and registered a Cifas 
marker against his name without due cause. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But in summary, in two consecutive days in July 2020 two payments 
totalling over £11,000 were made into Mr Es Lloyds bank account, and they were quickly 
removed from this account. These payments into his account were later confirmed as 
fraudulent funds by the sending bank, and so Lloyds took the decision to close his account 
and refer Mr E to Cifas who registered a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Mr E said that he is an international student and held bank accounts in the UK and Nigeria. 
He was part of a large group message chat with other Nigerian students. He explained he 
had been helping students from this group chat by running a kind of informal money 
exchange service due to unfavourable exchange rates, the impact of covid and the capping 
of usage of some Nigerian naira based accounts. He said he would help those who had 
money in Nigerian naira but needed money in pounds sterling, or vice versa, to pay school 
fees and maintenance costs. He said the payments that had now been flagged as fraudulent 
were part of this money exchange, and that he was unaware that they were fraudulent. He 
complained to Lloyds and asked that the Cifas marker be removed. 
Lloyds looked into what had happened, and didnt agree they had made a mistake. They 
said they were entitled to load the Cifas marker against Mr E, as the evidence suggested he 
had used his account to facilitate fraud. They said the fraudulent funds were also sent onto 
another account quickly, and the story Mr E gave did not line up with the other parties 
involved. They said the police were unable to confirm he was merely an unwitting victim. 
They also said he had run his account normally until 2020, when he began to receive large 
transactions with various references which did not mention student fees or currency 
exchange.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr E came to our service and one of our investigators 
reviewed what had happened. They recommended that the complaint should not be upheld 
as they felt that Lloyds had shown sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr E had used his 
account to receive and move fraudulent funds, and they did not think that Mr Es version of 
events was the most likely thing that happened in this case.  
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators opinion on his complaint. In summary, he said that: 
He did run an informal money exchange service, and felt that he had provided ample 
evidence in support of this. 
He didnt feel that the investigator had fully understood exactly how it all had worked 
 money went in and out of his accounts in Nigeria and the UK but he did not 
exchange between them. He also felt there had been some misunderstanding about 
which account he sent money to from his Nigerian account. 
He understands why our investigator found it strange that the references for the 
payments into his account did not reference exchange  but he did not think much of 
it at the time and said it was just honest foolishness on his behalf. 
He had not kept the individual chat details with the person he had agreed to 
exchange money with as he had changed phones and phone numbers since the 
transactions took place.  
Our investigator said that they remained of the same opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
The type of Cifas marker that Lloyds applied here is for misuse of facility  relating to Mr Es 
Lloyds account being used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. In order to file this 
marker, Lloyds are not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr E is guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but instead they must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern that such an offence took place. Cifas guidance said: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, the relevant findings for me to make are whether I believe there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that on balance the money sent to Mr E constituted fraudulent funds, and that he 
was deliberately dishonest in relation to receiving and moving these funds such that Lloyds 
fairly and reasonably escalated their concerns to Cifas. 
Lloyds have shown evidence that the funds were second generation fraudulent funds. This 
means they went from the victim of a scams account, to another account and then on to Mr 
Es account. So I am satisfied that fraudulent funds did come into Mr Es account. Mr E 
denies any knowledge of this, but he does not refute that this happened. But he says that he 
believed he had received these legitimately, as part of an informal currency exchange 
scheme between students, and was not involved in any fraud intentionally. So what is left for 
me to decide is whether on balance I think that it is most likely that Mr E was deliberately 
dishonest in his actions regarding these funds. Which in this case means determining 
whether I think it was most likely that he was an unwitting money mule, who was simply 
trying to help other students out, or whether he was aware to some extent that the funds 
were or might be fraudulent. And I think it is most likely he was involved in the fraud in some 
way. I say this because: 
Mr E has been able to provide the group chat history dating back a long time before 
the transactions in question took place. It does corroborate that this group appeared 
to use an informal money transfer service between one another. Group members ask 
if anyone has any specific currency available, or let the group know that they have 
currency available. The practice seems then that the individuals who may wish to 
partake in the exchange will move to a private chat to agree terms and exchange 
bank details. 
However, Mr E has not been able to provide the specific chat with the individual he 
agreed to receive money from. Mr E has explained that this is due to the passage of 
time meaning that he has changed his phone and his phone number. However, this 
has not prevented him from being able to show us extensive history of the group chat 
from long before the transactions took place. I clearly cannot say for certain what Mr 
E knew or intended at the time of receiving these transactions  but without access to 
this chat I cannot rule out that he knew exactly what was going on, or that he was part of the fraud himself. 
I do understand that this kind of money exchange traditionally works on trust, but Mr 
E as a post-graduate student in financial matters would surely be aware of the risk of 
such a system being used to launder illicit funds  and also the importance of 
keeping records of financial agreements, particularly when large sums of money are 
involved. So I do find it unusual. 
I am also unclear what his relationship was with the person he agreed to receive 
money from - outside of being part of the same student community. And on one of 
the days in question, someone in the group chat offered access to a ponzi style 
scheme, before another member points out that these are illegal. It is a large group 
and I am sure there are many honest users, but it is clear that not everyone within 
the group are opposed to illegitimate money making schemes. This is not conclusive 
evidence that Mr E falls into this category too  but it does go to evidence that mere 
membership of this large group would not have been grounds for an educated man 
such as Mr E to simply rely on trust in financial matters here. 
Further, the references for the payments do not align with the story Mr E has given 
us. The two payments in question have references of Electric Materials and 
Heating. I appreciate that Mr E said he did not think much about this at the time. But 
I think it would be unusual for a third-party fraudster who was abusing Mr Es informal 
money transfer service to use references that had nothing to do with school fees or 
money exchange services. This would risk alerting Mr E to the fact that there was 
something off about these payments and could risk them getting their funds in return. 
This would feel more logical if Mr E were part of the fraud. 
So, having considered all of the evidence, I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
believe that Mr E had been involved in a fraud or financial crime, and by extension I see no 
error in their decision to refer Mr E to Cifas. 
Regarding the account closure, the terms and conditions of the account allow for Lloyds to 
close Mr Es account where there is evidence of fraudulent activity on the account. Given 
that I consider it fair for Lloyds to have believed Mr E was involved in fraud or financial crime, 
I think they acted within the terms and conditions of the account to close it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman