DRN-2540014
The complaint
Mr S complains that UKI Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly declined a 
claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The back ground to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive only provided a brief 
summary here.
In July 2020 Mr S contacted UKI to ask if there was any pre claims approval process 
and explained his dog had a cruciate ligament operation in April 2018 on its right hind 
leg and now needed it on his left leg.
UKI advised it couldnt pre-approve the claim as the treatment had started and 
offered to register claim.
UKI advised Mr S that if the clinical notes suggested there were issues with the left 
leg it would be considered a bilateral condition and it wouldnt be able to cover it as 
the policy limit had been reached.
Mr S proceeded with surgery on his dog and made a claim under the policy.
UKI declined the claim saying the policy limit for the condition had been paid out for a 
cruciate ligament operation on the right hind leg in 2018. And they considered the 
issue with the left hind leg to be a bi-lateral condition.
Mr S complained and as he remained dissatisfied with UKIs response he brought his 
complaint to this service
Our investigator felt UKI had acted fairly in treating the claim as a bilateral condition.
Mr S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons.
The policy defines a bilateral condition as:- 
any condition affecting body parts of which your pet has two, one each side of the body 
such as (but not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and patellae. When applying 
a benefit limit or exclusion Bilateral Conditions are considered as one condition.
I find this definition clear, but Ive thought about whether its fair to rely on it in the 
circumstances of this case. The vets note at the time of the surgery on the right leg in 2018 
state that there was incredible subtle stifle effusion in the left leg. Stifle effusion is an 
increase in fluid within the stifle. And in March 2019 the notes indicate the left hind leg has 
been very sore and Mr S was concerned there was a cruciate rupture in the left leg. The 
notes go on to say there was no significant effusion.
On balance Im satisfied that there were signs of cruciate ligament disease in the left leg 
and, in the circumstances of this case, its reasonable for UKI to consider the claim for the 
surgery on the left leg as a bilateral condition. The evidence indicates this was the same 
underlying condition affecting both legs, rather than two different conditions. And as the 
policy limit for any condition had already been paid its fair to decline the claim.
UKI couldve been clearer when Mr S called prior to the surgery in July 2020 but it wouldnt 
have changed the outcome of the claim. UKI didnt say the claim would be met and did 
indicate that it might be considered a bilateral condition, and if it was then the policy limit had 
been met. 
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman