DRN-3881590
The complaint
Ms F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £23,000 she 
says she lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms F says she invested over £35,000 with a merchant called 
Tradeo, which she paid using her HSBC debit card, but says she has since discovered was 
an investment scam. She was able to recover around £12,000 and said HSBC should refund 
the remaining loss, as it ought to have prevented her from falling victim to the scam.
HSBC refused to refund the amount as it said Ms F had authorised the payments, and that 
Tradeo was a legitimate trading company, such that there was little to suggest she had been 
scammed or that any scam warning would have prevented her from making the payments. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She also didnt consider there to be enough 
evidence to suggest that Ms F had been scammed given that Tradeo was a legitimate 
trading merchant that was regulated overseas. Ms F disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty 
to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But 
the obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably 
have been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a 
fraudster; meaning that HSBC could have delayed the payments while concerns about 
the payee were discussed with Ms F.
So, I would need to be satisfied that Tradeo was operating a scam when these 
payments were made from December 2020 onwards in order to expect HSBC to have 
done anything further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-
risk investment traders (such as CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or 
communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when considering the 
financial losses incurred because of a disappointing return on an investment thats 
been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving CFD merchants are in fact 
a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be viewed as 
unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the 
high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning 
list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there 
were no warnings about Tradeo at the time these payments were made.  Rather, the 
evidence demonstrates that Ms Fs money went to a legitimate business that was 
regulated in another jurisdiction at the material time (and continues to be so now). 
Tradeo is operated by U R TRADE FIX Ltd, which was also registered with the FCA. 
Illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers are highly 
unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight.
Ive taken into consideration the concerns Ms F has raised about the techniques 
employed by the broker she was dealing with, who took control of her computer and 
applied high pressure sales tactics to persuade her to invest. But while this practice 
may be unethical, her money was still invested in a legitimate trading platform, so it still 
cannot be said that it was lost to a scam. Indeed, I can see from the merchants 
response to Ms Fs chargeback that she even had 10 trades close with a profit (albeit 
several others with a loss).
Overall Im not persuaded Tradeo was fraudulent or operating a scam. As a result, 
HSBCs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Ms Fs 
investments returning a loss, based on market performance. And I can see that this risk 
is also stated on Tradeos website, where it explains that CFDs come with a high risk of 
losing money rapidly. I understand Ms F may be unhappy with the company she has 
invested with, but the respondent to this complaint is HSBC, so I can only consider and 
comment on the actions of the bank within this decision. HSBC isnt required to protect 
its consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment choices or bad bargains. 
Therefore, I dont consider HSBC acted unfairly by failing to intervene in these 
payments. It follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action. 
I appreciate that Ms F also raised a chargeback in an attempt to recover her money, 
which HSBC duly pursued. However, I can see that this was successfully defended by 
the merchant, who had provided evidence of the services provided in response to the 
chargeback claim. As such, I dont think HSBC ought to have pursued her claim any 
further in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman