DRN-2520237
The complaint
Ms T complains Bank of Scotland plc has treated her unfairly while shes been in financial 
difficulties.
What happened
In 2003 Ms T took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS) for around £66,000 over a term of 25 years. She later increased her borrowing and the 
term has been extended. 
Unfortunately, she fell into financial difficulties. BoS helped her manage things over several 
years and in February 2016 the arrears she had at that time were capitalised. But further 
arrears built up. BoS and Ms T werent able to come to an agreement about how she could 
pay them off or meet her contractual monthly payments (CMP). And BoS started possession 
proceedings against her.
Ms T was unhappy about how BoS treated her. She complained to BoS, which didnt uphold 
her complaint. So, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Another ombudsman has previously considered what aspects of Ms Ts complaint this 
service has the power, under our rules, to consider. They decided we can look at Ms Ts 
complaints about the following:
A 'final warning letter' issued by BoS on 15 May 2019 advising of legal action due to 
commence in 15 days
BoSs refusal to agree to an arrangement to pay £50 per calendar month until she 
was fit to return to work
£2,697.40 of legal costs added to Ms Ts account on 10 October 2019 which Ms T 
didnt authorise 
Compensation Ms T seeks for the distress and upset caused by those charges being 
added
Our investigator didnt think BoS had done anything wrong and they didnt uphold her 
complaint. Since Ms T didnt accept our investigators view, her complaints been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms T has had some difficult personal circumstances to deal with over several 
years, and I can understand this will have made managing her financial situation challenging 
and caused her distress.
Ms T fell into financial difficulties in around 2010 and built up significant arrears on her 
mortgage account. And even after BoS had agreed to capitalise her existing arrears of 
around £10,000 in February 2016, she wasnt able to make her CMP and further arrears 
accrued.
Ms T was out of work and suffering from ill health. She hoped to get compensation from a 
legal dispute she was involved in but that was uncertain. She applied for payments towards 
her mortgage through the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP), but it looks as if the 
amount offered wasnt enough to cover the CMP. And although Ms T was making token 
payments towards the mortgage, they werent enough to meet the CMP. So, the arrears 
continued to build up, with interest being added to them as well, unfortunately making her 
situation worse. 
Ms T hadnt been able to make her CMP from around June 2016. And I understand she 
hasnt been able to get back to work as shes continued to be unwell. 
I can see BoS was initially treating Ms T as a vulnerable customer, accepting whatever she 
could pay towards the mortgage and held off chasing her for payment. BoS gave Ms T time 
to try and arrange the DWP payments. It reviewed her income and expenditure, which 
showed a deficit. And Ms T told BoS she was relying on family members and friends for 
financial help. 
Unfortunately, Ms T wasnt able to show BoS she would be able to get back into a position 
where she would be able to maintain her CMPs going forward or to pay off the significant 
arrears on her account. By May 2019 BoS felt it had exhausted all options and that it had to 
start possession proceedings as a last resort. 
I think BoS had treated her fairly to this point and taking possession proceedings was 
reasonable.
Final warning letter dated 15 May 2019
BoS wrote to Ms T in May 2019 letting her know about possible legal action within 15 
working days. Ms T was unhappy with the letter, said it made her illness worse and wanted 
BoS to stop writing to her.
BoS has a regulatory obligation to warn customers if it plans to take possession 
proceedings, so, whilst I can understand it may have been upsetting for Ms T to get the 
letter, I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to send it.
Arrangement to pay £50 per calendar month until Ms T is fit to return to work
BoS wouldnt agree to an arrangement Ms T proposed in around May 2019 under which she 
would pay £50 a month.
Ms Ts arrears stood at around £17,500 in May 2019 and shed been unable to make her 
CMP since June 2016. BoS say the CMP Ms T should have been making was around £620. 
And interest was being added to her account at around £200 a month. A payment of just £50 
a month would have meant that the arrears would continue to increase along with her overall 
mortgage balance.
BoS argues that to allow Ms Ts situation to get worse would be irresponsible. I agree 
allowing the arrears to continue to build and the balance of her mortgage to increase 
wouldnt have been in Ms Ts best interests. As the balance of her mortgage increases, the 
equity that may be available on the sale of the property will reduce. Theres the possibility 
that Ms T would eventually become liable to pay a shortfall if there wasnt enough money to 
pay off the mortgage after the sale of the property. 
I havent seen any evidence available to BoS in May 2019 to suggest Ms Ts situation was 
likely to improve. Theres no evidence she was able to pay off the arrears or that she would be able to earn enough in the foreseeable future to meet her CMP going forward. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for BoS to refuse to agree the arrangement she proposed.
Legal costs
Under the terms and conditions of Ms Ts mortgage she is liable for BoSs expenses in full 
where they are reasonably incurred and the amount of them is reasonable. Interest is 
payable on the charges from the date they are incurred to the date they are paid.
The expenses BoS can charge Ms T include the costs of any legal proceedings in 
connection with the mortgage or property.
 
BoS instructed its solicitors to take possession proceedings against Ms T. From what Ive 
seen, I think it was reasonable for them to go ahead with possession proceedings and incur 
legal costs in doing so, given the arrears on Ms Ts account and the steps BoS had taken to 
try and help Ms T. 
The fees charged to Ms Ts account in October 2019 were for the work the solicitors had 
been doing to prepare and issue court proceedings and I think they are reasonable. 
I think it was fair for BoS to add these fees to Ms Ts mortgage account in line with the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage, whether or not she agreed to that.
Bearing everything in mind, and whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Ms T, I dont 
uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Id remind BoS that it should continue to treat Ms T fairly and in line with the guidance issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority about the Covid19 pandemic as it evolves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman