DRN-3662737
The complaint
Mr S says MBNA Limited unfairly defaulted his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr S failed to make the minimum monthly payment on his account from March 2020. He 
spoke to MBNA in June 2020 explaining he was having financial difficulties due to the impact 
of the covid pandemic on his income. MBNA gave 30 days breathing space and asked Mr S 
to call back in July. He did so on 21 September 2020 and MBNA gave a further 30 days 
breathing space. It told Mr S missed payments would be reflected on his credit file. A month 
later Mr S called to advise he could not afford to make repayments until January 2021. As 
MBNA warned there was a risk Mr Ss account would default he offered £50 monthly 
repayments, but MBNA did not accept this. It placed a 60 day hold on his account. 
Mr S called on 26 October 2020 to advise he would have funds from the sale of his business 
by January 2021. On 18 November 2021 he offered to pay £100 a month but didnt have the 
time to complete a revised income and expenditure form. MBNA did not accept this offer and 
advised the account would remain in arrears and in time default. On 1 January 2021 it 
issued a default notice asking for £835.97 by 19 January 2021. Mr S paid £450 on 18 
January 2021 and so the account defaulted. He paid a further £600 on 28 January 2021. He 
said it was unclear what he needed to pay to avoid defaulting. This has caused him stress 
and impacted his mental health.
Mr S says he wants MBNA to remove the default, to buy back the debt and allow him to 
make payments to it directly. He asks for compensation for the distress this had caused. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said overall MBNA had treated Mr S 
fairly in the circumstances. She thought, in line with covid guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), MBNA ought to have applied a three-month payment deferral to   
Mr Ss account in June 2020, backdating it to run from March to August 2020. But as MBNA 
applied breathing spaces, tried to look at Mr Ss revised income and expenditure but could 
not agree an affordable repayment plan, and signposted him to debt management charities 
she felt it had acted reasonably. And Mr S would most likely not have been in a materially 
different position had MBNA applied the recommended payment deferral. 
She noted Mr S had not made the minimum payment from September to December 2020. 
And the timing of the default was in line with industry standards. She found the notice was 
clear what Mr S needed to pay and by when. She noted MBNA had referenced the second 
payment when reviewing Mr Ss complaint, albeit one day after receipt. But she didnt feel 
this payment should have reversed MBNAs decision or actions.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he did not 
agree with MBNAs approach to send the entire balance to a debt collections agency on 25 
February 2021 given it received full payment by 28 January 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I will explain why.
I have set out the facts of this case above. They are not in dispute. But what remains for me 
to decide is whether it was fair for MBNA to default Mr Ss account and to transfer the 
balance to a debt collections agency.
I am satisfied MBNA acted reasonably. Whilst not precisely following the FCAs guidance 
MBNA gave three periods of breathing space to Mr S, tried to set up an affordable payment 
plan and signposted him to debt management charities. Mr Ss account fell into arrears when 
he did not make his contractual payments from September to December 2020, and a 
payment plan had not been agreed. 
So it was fair for MBNA to start the process to default Mr Ss account. And he did not do 
what was required to stop the process. Mr S says he was given the impression he could 
make smaller repayments to clear the debt. But I find the notice was clear what he needed to 
pay (the total amount of arrears) and by when. And it seems, from the contact notes 
provided, that so was MBNAs advice about the impact of not making payments on the calls 
it had with Mr S over the months before his account defaulted. It says it also confirmed this 
by letter on 18 December 2020.
Mr S raised that he never received the default notice, but I note from the contact notes 
MBNA supplied that he called in on 14 January 2021 specifically because he had received it.
MBNA was under no obligation to undo the process after it later received a second payment 
after the deadline. And it did not need to get Mr Ss agreement, as he says it failed to do, to 
either default his account or to transfer his debt to a third-party. The terms of the agreement, 
that he accepted, allow it to do this.
I am sorry Mr S has found the whole matter stressful, and that his income was adversely 
impacted by the pandemic. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly conclude MBNA 
did anything wrong that it needs to correct.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman