DRN-3797884
The complaint
Mrs E has complained on behalf of the estate of the late Mr E, about the way that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) resolved the issue of excess commission on a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr E had a credit card with NatWest, which hed had PPI on.
In 2016, Mr E unfortunately passed away. NatWest agreed not to pursue the outstanding 
balance anymore.
In 2022, following a complaint about the credit cards PPI, NatWest agreed that they owed 
Mr Es estate compensation for the excess commission theyd charged. They used this to 
clear the outstanding balance on that credit card, then said theyd pay the remainder to 
Mrs E as the representative of the estate.
Mrs E felt this wasnt fair, and came to our service.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and concluded that NatWest had acted 
reasonably. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mrs E has gone through a truly tough time more generally  so she 
has my sympathy. I also understand why shed prefer to have received all the compensation 
directly, not least after the credit card had been written off.
I should explain that when a debt is written off, it doesnt cease to exist. It just means that the 
bank agreed not to take certain action to pursue the debt anymore, like sending chasers for 
repayments or going to court. So here, Mr Es credit card balance remained outstanding 
even after 2016  NatWest just agreed not to take certain action to chase it.
Further, banks have whats called the right to set off  to use money they owe their 
customer to reduce the money that the customer owes them.
So while NatWest owed Mr Es estate £1,867.33 for the excess commission charged to the 
credit card, Mr Es estate still owed NatWest £1,816.09 for the outstanding balance on that 
very same credit card. So its both fair and practical to use one debt to reduce the other. 
Mrs E pointed out that other banks didnt do that in Mr Es case, and I understand her point. 
But that was their choice. NatWest were still allowed to choose to set off here. And I dont 
think they did anything wrong in that choice  the debt which they owed Mr Es estate and 
the debt which Mr Es estate owed them were from the very same credit card, so it makes 
sense to offset them against each other.
Mrs E pointed out that the excess commission compensation had arisen from NatWest doing 
something wrong (i.e. charging too much commission). And I appreciate where shes coming 
from. But when a business gets things wrong, we tell them to put their customer in the 
financial position theyd be in now had things not gone wrong  as far as thats possible. And 
in Mr Es case, the compensation NatWest worked out is based on how much less he would 
have been charged on his credit card had they not added the excess commission. So had 
NatWest not added that extra commission, Mr Es credit card balance would have been 
lower  so much lower, it seems, that it would have been cleared by now. So by using the 
compensation to clear the balance now, NatWest have put Mr Es estate in the position it 
would have otherwise been in were it not for the excess commission. I consider that fair.
Mrs E questioned why the PPI policy wasnt used to clear the balance when Mr E passed 
away, which is an understandable query. Thats because the policy had been cancelled back 
in 2010. So it wasnt possible to make a claim on it by 2016.
I also understand that Mrs E was unhappy with the way NatWest handled her complaint. But 
Im afraid this isnt something I can help with. Were only allowed to consider complaints 
about regulated activities  such as selling insurance. But handling complaints is not a 
regulated activity in and of itself. Further, we can only award compensation for losses that 
the eligible complainant suffered, but not their representatives. So in this case, I could only 
award compensation for losses which Mr E suffered (e.g. excess commission), but not for 
any upset which Mrs E suffered as the representative of his estate.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs E did not receive the cheque for the remainder of the 
commission compensation. Weve raised this with NatWest, who confirmed theyll get this to 
her, possibly by direct transfer instead in case thats easier.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think National Westminster Bank Plc acted fairly in setting 
off the compensation in this case.
National Westminster Bank Plc should make sure that the remainder of the compensation is 
paid to Mrs E, if it has not been already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman