DRN-3274903
The complaint
Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S have complained about Zurich Insurance PLC because it has 
avoided their let property insurance (treated it as though its never existed), and by 
association declined their water leak claim. 
What happened
In July 2018 a policy was arranged for the property owned by Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S. The 
property (Property A) comprises two flats and a shop. The policy was arranged by the 
husband of Ms S, over the phone via a broker. The broker was not told that Ms S and her 
husband (Mr S) had previously had a policy avoided (in 2011). 
In April 2019 there was a water leak at Property A. A claim was made to Zurich and it began 
drying the property. However, the tenant for the property wanted to complete their own 
reinstatement work. Zurich asked for quotes to consider settling in cash. The policy renewed 
in July 2019 and in September 2019 the tenant logged a claim with Zurich for lost income. 
Zurich began considering this further claim. 
In November 2019 certain reports compiled by the loss adjuster were passed to Zurichs 
underwriting team. These highlighted the 2011 avoidance. Zurich determined that if it had 
been told about the avoidance, it wouldnt have offered cover. It said, therefore, that it was 
avoiding the policy arranged in July 2018, and it wouldnt assist further with the claim for 
repairs or lost income.
Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S were unhappy. By the time Zurich advised it was avoiding cover, 
almost a year had passed from the date of the claim. They felt the avoidance itself was 
unfair for a number of reasons, but also that if this action by Zurich was felt to be fair, that it 
should have taken it much earlier. They said, if it had, then they wouldnt now be faced with 
fighting the tenant over liability of the tenants losses.
In respect of the 2011 avoidance they said this had occurred on a home policy held by Ms S 
and Mr S, but that Ms S had been so ill she was unaware of what had happened. And, in 
fact, Mr S had explained that even he felt, having dealt with the issue at the time, that there 
hadnt been any true avoidance of the previous policy because his bank had reinstated the 
cover. He also said that his policies in the years since hadnt been affected by any increased 
premiums. He presented an email from the bank which confirmed that a policy, reference 
beginning HIA, had been cancelled by him, and replaced with another policy, the reference 
for which began HDA. Zurich said the evidence from the bank wasnt sufficient as it didnt 
give full details of the policy. Whilst it didnt explain this to Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S, the 
evidence it had received from the previous insurer was that it was a policy with a reference 
beginning HDA (and ending 5529) which had been avoided.
Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S complained to this service. Our investigator wasnt minded to 
uphold their complaint. The complainants were unhappy and they asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. I considered their complaint and wasnt minded to uphold it. But my 
reasoning differed from that set out by our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision, to 
which the parties responded. 
The complainants remained unhappy. They reiterated that Ms S had been very ill when the 
previous policy had been avoided and that none of them had known about the avoidance 
until Zurichs loss adjuster mentioned it during the course of the claim. They also queried the 
avoidance from the perspective that whilst Ms R1 and Ms R2 had another policy with Zurich 
(for a residential let property), Zurich hadnt sought to avoid that cover. They dont 
understand why neither the 2011 avoidance, nor the avoidance Zurich has undertaken on 
this commercial property cover, have affected their residential let policy. And they say that 
another insurer, for a commercial property which Mr S owns jointly with his son, hasnt been 
minded to avoid the policy they hold with it, even though it was advised of the 2011 
avoidance. So they arent convinced that, given these facts, Zurich is dealing with their 
commercial property insurance fairly.  
The complainants also said that:
[Mr S] took out the policies via a broker.over the phone and was acting as an agent on 
instruction from [Ms R1 and Ms R2]. [Ms S] had absolutely no part to play in taking any of 
the policies or providing instruction.
And they argued that Ms R1 and Ms R2 shouldnt be made guilty by association, where 
Mr S acted as their agents in arranging this policy and:
[Ms S] has had no part to play in answering the questions posed by the Insurer nor in taking 
out any policies. 
But the complainants also said and asked the following:
[Ms S] has never had any input into taking out the insurance policies, should she be 
penalised for a mistake that was not her own even though she had taken reasonable care to 
represent herself in the best way she could.
Evidence was provided to show Ms Ss health in 2011 and through into 2018 had been poor.
The complainants also argued that the 2011 avoidance was unfair and shouldnt be allowed 
to stand. They said theyd like the details of this reviewing.
The complainants also said that the question asked by Zurich in 2018, when cover was 
arranged, was unclear. They said that, whilst Mr S maintains that he was unaware of the 
2011 avoidance still being an issue, Zurich only asked to be told about policy cancellations. 
It didnt ask a question about having had a policy avoided. They emphasized that in 
answering this question there was no deliberate intent to mislead and it was only the answer 
to this one question that they got wrong.
I noted the new evidence and information supplied, all of which I needed to take into 
account. Therefore, I issued a second provisional decision which superseded my initial 
findings, making them null and void. But I was still minded to not uphold the complaint. My 
findings from my second provisional decision were:  
2011 avoidance
The parties would like me to review the fairness of the 2011 avoidance as part of my 
determination of this complaint about Zurichs decision to avoid the commercial policy 
arranged in 2018. I cant. Zurich was not the insurer for the policy that was avoided in 2011 
and Ms R1 and Ms R2 werent party to it. All I can look at is what Zurich did when it found out about the 2011 avoidance and whether, given the relevant law and circumstances, that 
was fair and reasonable.
Relevant law
This is a commercial policy, for a property which is, in part, commercially let. Collectively the 
policyholders alone are owners or part owners of five properties which I am aware of. Three 
of which comprise commercial lets. Mr S appears to act as their agent, or at least for Ms R1 
and Ms R2. He is also a joint owner of two of the five properties mentioned above, and he is 
joint owner of another commercial property (which the complainants are not involved with). 
All the policies for these properties are arranged or at least managed by Mr A via a broker. 
So I think its fair to view Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S as commercial customers. In the 
circumstances, the relevant law which I reasonably need to apply when considering this 
complaint is the Insurance Act 2015.
What the Insurance Act requires
When an insurer is dealing with commercial customers, it doesnt have to ask clear 
questions of them in order to let them know what information it wants them to disclose. 
Rather the Insurance Act requires the commercial customer to make a fair presentation of 
the risk to the insurer. In other words the commercial customer is expected to know what the 
insurer might want to be told about and disclose everything in that respect to it. 
Here Zurich did choose to ask some questions of its prospective policyholders. But if those 
questions didnt ask the prospective policyholders about everything it wanted to know about, 
that doesnt matter. Because the prospective policyholders obligations under the Insurance 
Act are to tell it everything likely to be important to it, whether directly asked about or not. 
And they must tell it everything they ought to know as well as everything they do know. And, 
in respect of what they ought to know, the Act says this is anything that should reasonably 
have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them.
Fair presentation of the risk
Most insurers, when deciding what risk the prospective policyholders present, will want to be 
told about previous avoidances. Ms S did have a previous policy avoided. It isnt clear to me 
if Ms S herself knew about that avoidance, and I take on board how poorly shes been over a 
number of years. It also isnt clear to me exactly how Ms S was represented when the policy 
was arranged. But Mr S was named on the policy which was avoided, and Mr S took on the 
responsibility for arranging the cover for Property A. So it was up to him to make a fair 
presentation of the overall risk to Zurich so that it could decide whether or not to offer cover. 
Mr S was named on the policy which was voided. And he says he dealt with the 
arrangements for his and Ms Ss home at that time because Ms S was too ill to do so. Mr S 
seems to have believed that the 2011 avoidance was overcome or discharged in some 
way by the bank which had arranged the policy which was avoided. And he says he recalls 
the bank manager putting cover back in place for him. However, I think Mr S is mistaken in 
his memory of what happened. It seems unlikely to me that a bank manager could over-ride 
an insurers decision in this way, and Mr Ss recollection simply isnt borne out by the policy 
details that have been shared with us about the cover for Mr S and Ms Ss home from 
around the time of the 2011 avoidance. In short, no new policy was put in place around the 
time the 2011 avoidance occurred. Mr Ss mistake in understanding and remembering what 
happened in 2011 means that when he arranged the cover for Property A, he failed to tell 
Zurich about the avoidance. But making a mistake doesnt mean he ought not to have 
known what really happened. The correct details were available to him, but he didnt check 
because he was mistaken.Now Mr S may argue that whether he was aware of the 2011 avoidance or not, he wasnt 
representing Ms S when the cover was arranged, and so as far as the risk Ms R1 and Ms R2 
presented, he gave Zurich a fair presentation  because they had not had a policy avoided. 
But I havent seen that Ms S also went through an application process and it would be highly 
unusual for joint policyholders to apply for cover separately. In any event an insurance policy 
is dealt with on the basis of joint and several risk. And Ms S was a named policyholder on 
the cover for Property A. So she and Ms R1 and Ms R2, and any of their agents, had a duty 
to fairly present the joint and several risk they posed, including telling Zurich anything they 
ought to have known about. I dont think the 2011 avoidance was outside the realms of 
what Ms R1 and Ms R2 ought to have known about  not given the family connection, that 
Ms S was a joint prospective policyholder, and that they knew her health was poor. In the 
circumstances, I think they reasonably should have been checking for her too. I dont think 
a fair presentation was made to Zurich. 
Id add that not all insurers view risks in the same way. And theyre entitled to set their own 
criteria in this respect  as long as they apply it to everyone in similar circumstances. So 
whilst the complainants are aware of another insurer that isnt bothered by the 2011 
avoidance, that doesnt mean that Zurich has acted unfairly because it views that as an 
unacceptable risk. Similarly, it doesnt matter that Zurich has chosen not to avoid the policy 
for the property owned by Ms R1 and Ms R2. But, in that case, it also seems that Zurich is 
happy the risk posed by Ms R1 and Ms R2, as policyholders in their own right, for their 
property, was fairly presented to it. In short, when that policy was arranged, they hadnt had 
a policy avoided. But the avoidance of the policy for Property A will have to be factored in by 
them when theyre presenting their risk to future insurers for any of their properties. Further, 
I know it is felt that Mr S and Ms Ss home insurance hasnt been affected in the years since 
the 2011 avoidance  but I dont know if the avoidance has been declared by them on those 
policies  either when one renewed in 2012, or when further policies were arranged in 2015. 
But again, how the insurer for those policies  or any others that have existed  chose to 
view the risk posed by the 2011 avoidance was up to it (if it knew about it). None of those 
issues speak to the reasonableness of the action Zurich decided to take based on its 
perception of risk, in the circumstances at hand and in respect of the policy and 
policyholders in question.
Failure to make a fair presentation
Im satisfied that the policyholders failed to make a fair presentation to Zurich when the 
policy for Property A was arranged. Im also satisfied that, but for that failure, Zurich wouldnt 
have offered the policy. In that circumstance the Insurance Act allows Zurich to avoid the 
contract and refuse all claims. Which is what Zurich has done. The Act does require though 
that Zurich returns the policy premium, and I understand it has done so. I think its acted 
fairly and reasonably.   
Did Zurich act in good time
I understand that the policyholders feel that if Zurich had concerns about its policy liability, it 
should have acted sooner and I appreciate that Zurich only decided to avoid the policy 
several months into the claim. By the time it did this it had dried the property and the policy 
had renewed. I accept that when the avoidance was then raised as an issue, this was 
frustrating for the policyholders and left them in a tricky position with their tenants. 
However, it isnt unusual for an insurer to not complete liability checks during the early 
stages of a claim, at least not in respect of every claim they see. Essentially, the Insurance 
Act places the obligation on the prospective policyholders to make a fair representation, and 
the insurer is entitled to handle the policy going forwards from a position of expecting that was done. In reality, most claims, especially those where the loss appears relatively limited, 
are dealt with in this way by insurers. And here I note that Zurich was happy to progress with 
the policyholders claim without checking they had given it correct answers at the outset. 
I think that was reasonable. I also think that if that had been the only claim Zurich was asked 
to consider, then it may well have completed without further checks having been done or the 
previous avoidance being uncovered. But before that claim concluded Zurich received 
notification of action from the solicitors acting for the owner of the business that lets the shop 
premises. Zurich was then, in my view, reasonably entitled to reassess its liability for the 
policy as a whole. That reassessment resulted in it, in November 2019, finding out about the 
2011 avoidance. I see that once it found out this information it acted relatively quickly  there 
were some further investigations for it to carry out, a meeting was arranged and took place 
with the policyholders to discuss matters, and further considerations were undertaken. It was 
then March 2020 when Zurich confirmed its intent to avoid its policy. In the circumstances, 
and given the severity of the action it was contemplating, I think it acted in a reasonably 
timely manner.
Zurich didnt object to my findings. The complainants, via a representative, said they didnt 
agree with them.
The representative for the complainants said:
It isnt uncommon for small businesses to be treated like consumers with vulnerable 
non-consumers needing protection. The policyholders here are small time landlords. 
So they should be treated as consumers, not commercial clients. A previous article 
issued by this service discusses the point of misrepresentation. 
He is concerned that Zurich has acted as it has in respect of this policy because it 
suspects the policyholders did something malicious  which is not the case. In fact 
theyve never acted in bad faith. With specific reference to Ms R1 and Ms R2 it seems 
Zurichs decision is unfair because the material facts werent in their knowledge.
Whilst Mr S may have made a mistake, the policyholders werent made aware of the 
implications of their choices.
It is a concern that Zurich doesnt seem to be dealing consistently with the previous 
avoidance as it has taken different actions in respect of three different policies held with 
it. And the bank which had held the policy in 2011 has provided cover since, including 
paying out on claims. He thinks that is inconsistent and feels there should be a 
consistent approach across the industry. 
Insurers always have the ability to apply discretion and it seems Zurich is reluctant to do 
so here only because of the size of the tenants claim (which has now crystallised at 
£60,000). And, in that respect, it is still felt that Zurich delayed too long in deciding on 
and communicating the avoidance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service will, where appropriate, take a view as to whether a commercial customer 
should be treated as a consumer would be. That is because we accept that some 
commercial customers are not sophisticated and, as such, we take the view that it wouldnt 
be fair to treat them in the same way sophisticated commercial customers would be. In 
determining whether we think a complainant is a sophisticated customer or an  
unsophisticated consumer, I take into account a number of factors. And I explained 
provisionally why I think the policyholders here should reasonably be treated as commercial 
customers. Nothing Ive seen in reply gives me cause to change my mind on that.Whilst I note the article the representative found, I see we produced it in 2005. That was 
quite some time ago, and pre-dates the Insurance Act. I also see from the articles content 
that its focus was on disputes involving consumers, not commercial customers, and insurers. 
The article refers to the insurer needing to ask clear questions of the policyholder. And, as 
I explained provisionally, the Insurance Act doesnt set out any such obligation upon 
insurers. The issue to answer under the Insurance Act is whether the policyholders made a 
fair presentation of the risk to the insurer based not just on what they knew, but what they 
ought to have known. If they didnt, and as it is, in this case, that Zurich has shown that it 
would never have offered this policy if it had known, then the insurer is entitled to avoid the 
policy. 
I realised when I made my provisional decision that Mr S had likely made no more than a 
mistake when applying for cover. And I think Zurich accepts that. I say that not least as 
I note it returned the policy premium, whereas when a policyholder has acted deliberately to 
mislead an insurer, the Insurance Act allows the insurer to keep the premium paid. But, all 
the same, I felt the avoidance was something Mr S ought to have known to disclose. 
Further, I accepted, and was aware when I made my provisional findings, that Ms R1 and 
Ms R2 may not have had the fact of the 2011 avoidance in their immediate knowledge. But 
I thought, and still think, particularly as Mr S was representing them, that it is something they 
ought to have known about. In these respects, Ive no need to step away from or further 
add to what I said provisionally.
I note the complainants have now argued that they werent given a clear enough warning 
about the need to provide Zurich with the right information. But, they werent dealing directly 
with Zurich, rather they had chosen to have Mr S represent them. As such, as I explained 
provisionally and whilst Mr S arranged the policy via a broker, it was always his responsibility 
to ensure a fair presentation of the policyholders risk was given to Zurich. The difficulty for 
those concerned here is that Mr S, when the policy was arranged, was labouring under a 
misunderstanding about the 2011 avoidance. I dont think that any warnings from Zurich, 
even if I felt such should have been given, would likely have changed that. 
In making its decision Im satisfied that Zurich acted in line with the relevant law and in 
respect of the relevant criteria which applied to this policy. And it may help the complainants 
to understand that most insurers offer more than one type of cover, and that for each type of 
cover it is not uncommon for different risk criteria to apply. Further, when an insurer is 
offering cover, it will apply the relevant risk criteria to the policyholders in question but 
usually only based on what its been told by them. So each instance is looked at in specific 
detail. I explain this as it may help the complainants understand why Zurich, and other 
insurers they have dealings with, have taken different decisions on other policies to the one 
Zurich has made here in respect of this policy for Ms R1, Ms R2 and Ms S. But also to 
assure the complainants that there is a consistent way in which these situations are 
considered. That approach though, based on the relevant law which allows the individual 
insurer to refer in each case to what they were told and what their specific risk criteria is, 
simply and naturally generates different outcomes.
Zurich did have the ability to overlook the misrepresentation if it had wanted to. But, I cant 
reasonably fault it just because it chose not to do so. I explained provisionally why I thought 
Zurich had made its decision about the avoidance when it had, and that this wasnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I havent seen anything that changes my mind on that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R1, Ms R2 and 
Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman