DRN-1573519
 
The complaint 
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 2006. Mr B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr B says PPI wasnt mentioned and he wasnt aware it had been added to his mortgage. 
NatWest has said Mr B wouldve been given an option and has provided a copy of Mr Bs 
paperwork at the time of the mortgage. 
There was a separate application for the PPI from the main mortgage application form. On 
the form, applicants are asked to select if they want PPI and what type of cover they want. 
On Mr Bs form, the option for cover for accident and sickness only has been selected and 
Mr B has signed the form. It looks like Mr B choose the cover which best suited his 
circumstances at the time. 
So, I think NatWest made it clear the policy was optional and Mr B chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Ive noted Mr Bs comments about the fact he was self-employed so the policy was suitable 
for him, but he was only covered for if he couldnt work due to being too unwell. He has told 
us that he didnt have any other means of making his mortgage repayments  such as 
savings - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Ive considered the fact Mr B was taking out a long-term financial commitment secured 
against his home  on his own. I think he would have wanted to security in knowing his 
repayments were covered if he wasnt able to work due to illness or an accident. Especially 
as not making his mortgage payments had serious consequences. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. Which means NatWest doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest treated 
him unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Bs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr B back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman