DRN-3519163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how Lifesearch Partners Limited treated them when collecting 
personal information over the telephone.
What happened
Mr L spoke with Lifesearch over the telephone to discuss a life insurance quotation. As part 
of the conversations Lifesearch collected salary information for both Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with the level of data collected and the way in which the adviser 
commented on the salary information provided so complained to Lifesearch.
Lifesearch looked into what happened and whilst apologising for any offense or discomfort 
caused by the comments made by the adviser, they didnt uphold the complaint. Lifesearch 
didnt think they had breached either the Data Protection Act or the UK General Data 
Protection Regulation in collecting the information they did.  
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators considered what happened but overall didnt think Lifesearch had done 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that Ive read and considered everything that has been 
provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised some things which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. Its also clear to me how strongly Mr and Mrs L feel about 
what happened.
Mr and Mrs L have made four very clear complaint points:
1. Unlawful processing of personal data by making personal comments against earnings, an 
entirely inappropriate use of the data provided.
2. Processing data without lawful basis, specifically salary information which was admitted 
not to be required
3. Deliberately misleading me with regards to the basis for collecting information  claiming 
contract when none existed
4. Further misleading me when referring to pre-contract discussion terms which were never 
provided.
Looking at what happened I think the level of data collected was reasonable and 
appropriate. Asking for income details when providing advice about any financial product 
isnt unusual and is used for assessing affordability. Here Lifesearch asked for salary details 
as part of the general information gathering process. It turns out that income information 
wasnt required for the particular product that was eventually recommended. But that doesnt 
mean there was an error made by collecting it when first dealing with Mr and Mrs L and 
gathering financial information in order to make a recommendation.
When speaking to Mr L the adviser from Lifesearch made a comment about the salary 
details provided. Mr L is upset by the comment and Lifesearch have apologised for any 
offense or embarrassment caused. I think the telephone call was conversational in tone and 
dont think any offence was intended by the comment. Im satisfied the apology from 
Lifesearch for what happened is a fair way of resolving that issue, so I wont be asking them 
to do anything further.  
The other complaint points refer to concerns around the lawful collection of data. The 
relevant guidance here comes from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This says 
that a business has a lawful basis to process someones data when providing a contractual 
service or when theyve been asked to do something before a contract such as providing a 
quote. And thats what was happening here; Lifesearch were gathering data to provide a life 
insurance quote for Mr and Mrs L. 
The guidance goes on to say that this lawful basis for data processing continues even if a 
consumer doesnt go on to enter into a contract as long as the processing was in the context 
of a potential contract. And again, Im satisfied thats what happened here. Lifesearch 
gathered information to provide a quote however Mr and Mrs L didnt go on to take out the 
recommended product. But that doesnt mean there were any errors in collecting and 
processing the data as part of the process.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Lifesearch acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr and Mrs L. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman