DRN-3652367
The complaint
Mr S complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited provided misleading information about an 
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform. He says he participated in 
the crowdfund based on the misleading information and has now suffered a financial loss.  
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr S made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in late 2017. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Having already invested in Company A during an earlier round of crowdfunding in 2016, Mr 
S invested a further £25,000 in this fundraising round. As Company A substantially 
surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed, and he was allocated 
shares.
Company A contacted Mr S in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model. But in 
May 2020, Company A entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up 
resolution being passed by its members.
In June 2021, Mr S raised concerns via a representative with Crowdcube and requested he 
was compensated for losses he had suffered.
 
Crowdcube responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the pitch presented was 
clear, fair and not misleading. Investors had the opportunity to ask Company A further 
questions, which some investors did. If investors had particular investment criteria, this 
would have been the appropriate juncture to ask questions to understand whether it met 
their requirements. It also said Crowdcube had no control over Company As decision to 
pivot away from opening takeaway stores. Unhappy with the response, in July 2021, Mr S 
contacted this service to refer his complaint to us for independent review. 
One of our investigators completed an investigation. She issued an assessment not 
upholding Mr Ss complaint. In summary she said:
- Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the 
promotion was based. This included carrying out a basic plausibility check on 
Company As expansion plans.
- Crowdcube didnt obtain sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate how likely 
Company As plans were to go ahead.
- As Crowdcube were aware Company As plans for using the funds were at an early 
stage and this ought to have been disclosed in the pitch. 
- But she didnt think it would have changed Mr Ss decision to invest had Crowdcube 
disclosed that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage. She did 
consider the comments about the updates Mr S receiving being upbeat regarding 
expansion  and this is why he didnt make any further enquiries. But she thought 
there wasnt evidence that to show Mr Ss investment decision hinged on expansion. 
- She noted there was no evidence of Mr S making enquiries with Company A or 
Crowdcube on the progress with opening new sites  including after Company A sent 
updates which explained it wasnt opening the sites as planned. She said had Mr Ss 
decision to invest in Company A been based on the opening of physical locations, 
then she wouldve expected Mr S to have raised concerns when receiving these 
updates.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators assessment. In summary he said he doesnt agree he 
would have invested despite the absence of the representations made in the pitch 
document. He said:
- He doesnt agree with the finding that had expansion been the key issue for him, it 
was expected he should have complained about the failure to open new stores. He 
had been promised realistic expansion plans and wasnt ever given the impression 
that wasnt happening until it was too late.
- Company A was explicitly seeking to raise investment for expansion. Through its due 
diligence Crowdcube had been unable to evidence that any plans for expansion were 
plausible but did not ever tell him. The suggestion that he would have invested in a 
business promising aggressive expansion in circumstances where he was aware that 
Crowdcubes due diligence had established that there was no evidence to support 
the suggestion that the business was in a position to carry out any expansion is 
unreasonable.
- All updates he received from Company A were upbeat and would not have caused 
any reasonable investor to raise concerns. Then on 7 April 2019 he received an 
update from saying: "Essentially the core of the plan that we have set out will remain 
the same, which was only months before company A went into liquidation. 
- Had Crowdcube discharged its duties to potential investors then either it would have 
rejected the opportunity to raise further investment for Company A or it would have 
ensured that potential investors were fully aware of the reality of the position at the 
time of the pitch. If he would have known the truth, he wouldnt have invested. 
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. Themost relevant principles here are:
- PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
- COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
- COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):- The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
- fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, clear 
and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr S aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A.
Essentially Mr S complains that he was misled about how the funds raised through the 
crowdfund would be used by Company A  based on what he saw in the promotion provided 
by Crowdcube. Ive reviewed the original promotion and note there is limited information on 
exactly what the funds would be used for. There is a short section that talks about how 
Company A had doubled its number of sites from two to four and it was looking for further 
expansion but no more detail than that.  
In his original complaint Mr S referred to information that was provided in an invitation email 
and a business plan presentation that Company A sent him  for example the references he 
makes to being told about an aggressive expansion. But this information comes from a 
restricted document. This means its contents was not approved by an authorised person (i.e. 
Crowdcube). Crowdcube didnt need to ensure the information in these documents was 
clear, fair and non-misleading. Crowdcube were promoting an investment into a non-readily 
available security that was high risk in nature. So, it is correct to say how the funds were 
intended to be used by Company A was essential information that prospective investors, like 
Mr S, would need to enable them to make a reasoned decision to invest or not. But only to 
the extent of the information provided in the pitch  not the contents of the business plan or 
email. 
Crowdcube has provided notification to show the due diligence it carried out before 
promoting the investment opportunity. A key element of this was how it satisfied itself of the 
plausibility that Company A would use funds for further expansion by opening new sites. 
Crowdcube says it discussed this with Company A, and was told by Company A that it had a 
number of locations in mind but plans were at an early stage, so there was limited 
documentary evidence available. Crowdcube said it was satisfied the plans were genuine. 
To support this, Crowdcube has provided notes from its call records with Company A  including those from a call in November 2017, shortly before promoting the investments. 
This includes the following note from this call:
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
This is evidence to support that Crowdcube did perform due diligence  including that related 
to Company As plans to open new sites. But what is missing is Company As response to 
the above question, so it is unclear what further enquiries or indeed whether Company A 
responded at all. It was obliged to ensure the promotion was fair, clear and not misleading. 
But its not clear what further expansion means from the promotion. I think it is reasonable 
to conclude from the following extracts, having grown from two sites to four, and now 
raising funds for further expansion that Company A was looking to open up new sites with 
the funding. This is supported by the fact there is evidence that Crowdcube asked Company 
A questions about opening new sites.  All of this leads me to the conclusion that Crowdcube 
didnt meet its obligations.
In my view Crowdcube should have completed a basic plausibility check on the statement of 
future expansion as it is relevant to the future success of Company A. I accept there may be 
difficulty in testing the plausibility of whether Company A would do what it says it intends to 
do in the promotion. I also understand that Crowdcube tested the plausibility of the 
statement of further expansion by combining Q&A with Company A with evidence of its track 
record of opening new sites. But from the information Ive seen, its apparent Crowdcube 
knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were not 
substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these 
plans were. I think this something Mr S should have been made aware of  but I dont think 
the available evidence supports that Crowdcube did this. So, this is another reason why I 
dont think Crowdcube met its obligations under COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, clear and not 
misleading rule.
I also dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6 (PRIN 
2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule. Crowdcube needed to safeguard investors, like 
Mr S, interests. To do this I think it should have asked what Company A meant by further 
expansion and checked whether this was plausible. For example, Crowdcube could have 
performed a plausibility check by obtaining lease documentation (like it did for the two 
previous stores) to establish if it intended to open at new sites. Or it could have asked for 
evidence of agreements in principle or anything to demonstrate Company A intended to 
open new stores. I havent seen that it did this, so it follows that I find it didnt act in Mr Ss 
best interest by failing to. 
To be clear, I havent agreed with Mr Ss view that Crowdcube is responsible for ensuring 
the accuracy of promised aggressive expansion. This statement didnt form part of the pitch 
approved by Crowdcube. As Ive previously mentioned, Crowdcube wasnt required to 
perform due diligence checks on the business plan document. So, I havent found that it is 
responsible for the statements and information Mr S claims are misleading from this 
document. 
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Mr S wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr S, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
I understand Mr S says he wouldnt have invested had he known Company As expansionplans werent substantiated, but I have to consider that hes complaining with the benefit of 
hindsight, with Company A having been liquidated. The failure of Company A in itself isnt 
evidence that Mr S wouldnt have invested. This is just the materialisation of the key risk of 
investing in crowdfunding opportunities. 
In his initial complaint letter to Crowdcube Mr S said the basis of his complaint is that he
understood the purpose for the fundraising to be expansion and in particular to fund the 
opening of new stores. So, it does appear from this he was expecting new stores. In 
response to the investigators assessment he said he had been promised realistic expansion 
plans and he was given the impression that company A was carrying out expansion plans 
until it was too late. He has referred to the updates that were sent in 2018 and 2019 and 
says these didnt cause him concern as they were still referring to expansion. I agree the 
decision to change the type of expansion isnt relevant to the falling Ive identified as 
Crowdcube wasnt aware of Company A having any intentions to change plans at the time of 
promoting the investment. 
Ive already explained that from the information in the pitch, it is reasonable to conclude that 
Company A was looking to open up new sites with the funding.  There is no other reference 
to different forms of expansion. Mr S says that he wouldnt have invested if he was aware 
that Crowdcubes due diligence had established that there was no evidence to support an 
aggressive expansion plan. He also says he wouldnt have invested if there was no evidence 
to support the suggestion that Company A was in a position to carry out any expansion. But 
the failing Ive identified doesnt relate to either of these points. So while Ive considered the 
submissions Mr S has made, they dont carry weight in reaching a decision on whether Mr S 
would have invested. I say this because I need to bring it back to the failing Ive explained 
above. What I need to decide is whether Mr S wouldve still invested had he been told that 
Company As plans to open new stores were at an early stage and that Crowdcube hadnt 
seen any documentary evidence to substantiate the plans. 
When the 2018 and 2019 updates were provided, this was a material change to the plan for 
expansion. Despite receiving these updates, I havent seen evidence Mr S contacted 
Company A or Crowdcube to query this change. Im not saying he should have made a 
complaint, but I would have expected to see some evidence of contact  such as queries 
raised at the time of investing or after being notified of Company A pivoting its plans. But if 
as Mr S now says, the type of expansion wasnt a concern to him, then it doesnt seem 
understanding that plans for new stores were at an early stage would have put him off 
investing  especially if he is now saying the opening of new stores wasnt critical to his 
decision to invest. 
Whist the pitch explained what Company A wanted to use the funds raised for, it also
provided financial information which may have influenced Mr Ss decision to invest. This
included information regarding Company As revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k...We have seen sales
grow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. Mr S has also explained that he had previously invested in 
Company A through Crowdcube. As far as Im aware he isnt complaining about the first 
investment he made into Company A in 2016. So, investing for a second time suggests he 
had faith in the potential of the company. In my view, its clear there may have been a 
number of reasons as to why Mr S may have decided to invest in Company A. And as Ive 
not seen that Mr S raised concerns at the time Company A deviated from the plans provided 
in the pitch, this further supports that he invested in Company A as he had confidence in the overall financial prospect of the business and wouldve done so even if he had been told the 
expansion plans were at an early stage.
So taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that clearer
information about the expansion plans would have changed Mr Ss decision to invest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman