DRN-2362303
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs M bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for
a mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them protection against accident,
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it. When Mr and Mrs M took
out further advances in 2004 (by phone) and 2007 (in a meeting) they increased the cover 
under their PPI to protect their additional borrowings as well.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. I can't know what was said during the sales, but I've looked at the 
paperwork from all three sales. 
On Mr and Mrs M's 2000 mortgage application form they indicated that they wanted
PPI, and the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. And Mr and Mrs M
then signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Theres nothing on
the forms that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
In 2004 and 2007 Mr and Mrs M also completed and signed separate PPI application forms 
and direct debit mandates, showing that they wanted their level of cover to increase to 
protect both the existing mortgage and the new borrowings. Again I can't find anything on 
that form, or their application for the further advances, that could reasonably have led them 
to think the borrowing was dependent on taking PPI. So I think it's most likely Lloyds make it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs M opted to take it out.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to make sure it was right for
them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances I think the PPI was suitable. Mr and 
Mrs M told us they were both entitled to at least six months' sick pay in 2000 and they 
havent told us this had changed by 2004 or 2007  they confirmed they were still entitled to 
sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave them up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs M were borrowing large sums over a long period secured on 
their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the 
cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s).
I agree its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. But what I need to decide in order to conclude the PPI was mis-
sold is if it's most likely they would have made different decisions with better information. I 
dont know when Lloyds made the cost clear, but each time the PPI was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. I dont know that it pointed out the 
main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by 
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical 
conditions). So on balance I dont think it's most likely better information wouldve changed 
their decisions.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of any problems with these sales.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman