DRN-2278374
The complaint
Miss D complains that Nationwide Bank Ltd blocked her account and gave her misleading 
information about how long it would take to complete a review of her account. 
What happened
Miss D has a current account with Nationwide.
On 15 July 2019, £15,000 was paid into Miss Ds account. Following this, Nationwide 
decided to review Miss Ds account and asked her some questions about the payment. 
Whilst it conducted the review Nationwide blocked Miss Ds access to her account.
On 16 July 2019, Miss D discovered she couldnt access her account, so she contacted the 
bank to find out what was happening. Nationwide asked Miss D about the £15,000 and for 
proof of her entitlement to the funds.  Miss D explained that the money was compensation 
shed received following legal action she taken. And she emailed the bank information to 
support what shed said. She also explained that she was bound by a non-disclosure 
agreement so she was restricted in what she could tell the bank about the payment. 
Nationwide said it would look at the information and complete its review within 48 hours. 
Miss D says she was relying on the funds at the time to help her find somewhere to live. 
Shed also recently had a baby and needed to buy things to provide for her child. So, she 
needed access to the £15,000 as soon as possible. Miss D went into a branch to see if she 
could speed up the process and to make sure the bank had received the information, shed 
previously sent it about the payment. 
When Miss D went into the branch, the bank asked her some more information about the 
funds and told her the review would actually take up to 15 days. The bank apologised for 
giving Miss D wrong information when it told her it would complete things within 48 hours 
and offered her £75 compensation. On 3 August 2019, Nationwide completed its review and 
released the money to Miss D. 
Miss D complained to Nationwide. She said she had to visit a branch, which was difficult for 
her as she had a new born baby and she couldnt afford a taxi. So, she had to walk to the 
branch which was exhausting. Shes explained she had to borrow money from friends and 
says she missed out on rental properties because the bank blocked her account. She 
doesnt think £75 adequately reflects the amount of trouble and upset she suffered. 
An investigator looked into Miss Ds case. He said Nationwide acted in line with its 
processes when asking Miss D for more information about the payment. And he thought the 
bank had done enough to put things right. Miss D disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Miss D has told us and the bank that she feels strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate that shes upset that Nationwide blocked her account and that this 
caused her inconvenience. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for her 
especially as at the time shed just had a baby and had plans for the money. But, having 
looked at all the evidence Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
 
Ill deal first with the bank decision to block and review Miss Ds account. All banks in the UK 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business 
relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers accounts. Nationwide 
has said that Miss Ms access to her account was blocked to meet these requirements.  
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Nationwide was within its rights 
to review Miss Ds account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
So, I cant say the bank did anything wrong when it restricted Miss Ds account. 
In order to meet these requirements banks are also required to have measures in place to 
review payments. As part of its review process Nationwide is entitled to ask a customer for 
more information about how they use their account. And its not for this service to interfere 
with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then 
put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
From looking at how Miss D normally operated her account, the £15,000 payment was quite 
unusual. So, I dont think its unreasonable for the bank to block an account if a relatively 
large amount of money is paid into it. Nationwide wanted to be sure about where the 
£15,000 had come from. And that Miss D was entitled to the money. So, it asked Miss D for 
information about the payment.
Miss D explained to the bank that she couldnt give it much information as she was bound by 
a non-disclosure agreement. And I can understand Miss D being anxious about wanting to 
be careful about breaching the terms of such an agreement  she didnt want to do anything 
that would lead to her potentially losing the money. But I can see Miss D provided what she 
could quite quickly. And that once she explained things in more detail about the constraints 
of the agreement, the bank was happy to accept the evidence Miss D could give, as proof 
she was entitled to the money.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide were acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when reviewing Miss Ds account and asking her questions. So, I dont think its 
done anything wrong.  I note that Nationwide asked Miss D to provide more information and 
she did this on 16 July 2019. I can see that Nationwide completed its enquiries with the 
sending bank and reviewed the further information Miss D provided on the same day she 
provided it, which was on 3 August 2019. And the funds were released to Miss D the same 
day. So, overall, Im satisfied that the review was completed in a timely manner.
However, theres no dispute that the bank didnt handle things well when it initially told 
Miss D about how long things would take. The bank accepts it shouldnt have told Miss D 
that it would finish its review within 48 hours. This wasnt right. The bank normally takes 15 
days to complete a review. So, I can see why Miss D was upset. Especially as she had plans 
for the money that were very important to her  in particular she had a new born child who 
needed to be provided for and she wanted to find a new home. So, to find out she would 
have to wait much longer than she first thought, to be able to use the money, wouldve no 
doubt have been quite distressing. So, Im satisfied Miss D suffered unnecessary upset 
because of Nationwides poor communication. The bank has accepted it should have dealt with things better. It apologised and paid Miss D 
£75 compensation. I know Miss D wont agree, but I think Nationwide have done enough to 
put things right. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything more to resolve Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss d to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman