DRN-3880401
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has dealt with two claims 
made under his contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made two claims under his policy with Allianz. The first was made in 2015 following a 
significant flood which affected several flats in the building, and the second was in 2021, 
following a further ingress of rainwater. 
The 2021 claim was declined at first, as Allianz said the damage was due to poor repairs 
following the first claim. However it agreed to review the matter if further information was 
received. Mr B provided further information to Allianz and it decided to accept the claim. But 
he remained unhappy with the service hed received from Allianz.
Mr B also made a Subject Access Request (SAR), but was concerned to be told that Allianz 
no longer held the information Mr B wanted about the 2015 claim, due to the passage of 
time. Mr B doesnt believe Allianz has been truthful, as he believes Allianz still has copies of 
the information he requested and that it has not all been deleted as per Allianzs claims.
The complaints were referred to this service and our investigator considered the issues. She 
said we couldnt look at the 2015 claim but that shed looked into the way the 2021 claim had 
been handled and didnt think Allianz had treated Mr B fairly. She recommended Allianz pay 
Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Allianz accepted our investigators assessment but Mr B did not. Because Mr B didnt agree, 
the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in line with our investigators 
recommendations. Ill explain why.
Mr B asked us to investigate aspects of the claim he made in 2015. The rules which govern 
how our service must operate (known as DISP), say that we cant look at a complaint if it 
was made more than six years after the event complained of, or if it was brought more than 
three years from when the customer was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware 
that they had cause for complaint.
As the 2015 claim was made over six years ago, it falls outside our jurisdiction to consider if 
we believe Mr B knew he could make a complaint within the three year time limit specified 
above. Mr B received a final response letter in 2015, which wouldve made him reasonably 
aware that he could bring a complaint to us at that time about the issues with his roof. Since 
its been more than three years since Mr B ought to have been aware he could complain to 
us, Im afraid I cant consider any issues regarding the first claim.
Mr B has questioned why we cant consider the earlier claim, when he was never aware of 
any issues with the roof hatch  only that there was water coming through it. He says he only 
became aware of the issues in 2021 but from what hes said, and the way hes quoted 
directly from the report from 2015, I think he wouldve been reasonably aware about the 
issues with the roof at the time because this is alluded to in the report he has  even if he 
didnt have all the information he has now. So Im satisfied Mr B had enough information 
before the deadline to raise a complaint before the 2021 claim. We also cant consider 
whether he couldve claimed under his landlords policy instead of his own, as he wouldnt be 
an eligible complainant for the purposes of using our service, as his landlord would be the 
policyholder of that particular policy. And the same applies to complaints about the building 
rather than Mr Bs contents, as the owner of the building is the Housing Association, so any 
complaint would need to be brought by the Housing Association about matters involving the 
actual building.
Allianz has however given its consent for us to consider Mr Bs complaint about the second 
claim, even though this was brought to us just over six months after the date of the final 
response letter, which is also late according to our rules. I understand Mr B had numerous 
medical issues preventing him from bringing the complaint on time, and he has my every 
sympathy for what hes been through with his health. So I think it fair that we consider his 
complaint about the second claim, due to his exceptional personal circumstances.
Mr Bs concerns about how Allianz has handled the SAR hes made are concerns that the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is best placed to consider, though I have had 
regard for these issues when making my final decision.
Ive carefully considered all the other matters Mr B has raised with Allianz and with this 
service. I can see that Allianz has responded to all the points hes raised and I think its done 
so fairly from the email chains Ive seen. However, I do think it unfairly and prematurely 
declined Mr Bs 2021 claim and so Im going to require Allianz to pay Mr B £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
I can also see that Mr B has repeatedly asked for all the documents that Allianz has sent to 
us, and our investigator has explained that because some of the documents weve received 
might be commercially sensitive in nature or contain confidential information, Allianz may 
need to redact them before they can be sent over to Mr B. We cant send all the information 
received from one party to the other without their permission, just as we wouldnt send 
Allianz any information Mr B had sent us without Mr Bs permission. 
Our investigator has asked Allianz to send Mr B the information it holds and to fulfil Mr Bs 
SAR. If Mr B remains unhappy with the information he receives or the way his SAR is 
handled, this would be something hed need to raise with the ICO.
Putting things right
Allianz Insurance Plc must pay Mr B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Allianz Insurance Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman