DRN-3548950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly told them that their travel 
insurance claim would be paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance through their packaged bank account. Whilst their bank 
sold the account to them, UKI is the underwriter of the policy and its responsible for handling 
and considering any claims.
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel on 18 August 
2020. Unfortunately, a few days before their departure date, Mr Fs mother passed away. 
Mrs F got in touch with UKIs claims team to make a claim and was told it would be covered. 
So she says she cancelled the trip based on that information.
However, having assessed the available medical evidence, UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim. Thats because it said the circumstances of the claim were excluded by the policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy that UKI had incorrectly informed them that their claim would be 
covered, and they made a complaint.
UKI accepted that its claims handler had wrongly told Mr and Mrs F that the claim would be 
covered and that this wouldve caused Mr and Mrs F disappointment and upset. So it paid 
them £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with UKIs offer and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that if UKI had correctly told them their claim wouldnt be covered, they 
couldve attempted to get a refund from their tour operator.
Our investigator thought UKI had paid Mr and Mrs F fair compensation. He acknowledged 
that UKIs incorrect advice had led to them suffering a loss of expectation. But hed looked at 
their tour operators terms and conditions. And he noted that given the proximity of their 
planned departure date to the cancellation of their trip, they wouldnt have been entitled to 
any refund from the tour operator in any event. So he didnt think UKI needed to do anything 
more.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They maintained their bank had given them the wrong information 
and we shouldve looked into a complaint about the bank, not UKI. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make it clear that this decision will only 
consider the impact that UKIs error in telling Mr and Mrs F that their claim would be covered 
had on them. I will not be looking into whether it was fair for UKI to turn down the claim. 
Thats because that issue has already been considered separately by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I think UKI has paid them fair 
compensation and Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs F feel that it was their bank which provided them 
with incorrect information and that therefore, we ought to have considered their complaint 
against their bank. I agree with the investigator though that UKI was responsible for the 
incorrect information which was given to Mr and Mrs F, not their bank. Thats because UKI 
underwrites their insurance policy. That means that its responsible for making claims 
decisions. Whilst some of the correspondence Mr and Mrs F were sent in relation to their 
claim was printed on bank-headed paper, the footer refers to UKI as the insurer of the policy 
and provides UKIs registered address. Moreover, UKI has told us that it was responsible for 
the incorrect claims information. So Im satisfied that UKI is the correct respondent financial 
business here.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, UKI accepts it made an error when it handled Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It 
acknowledges that its claims handler wrongly told Mr and Mrs F that their claim would be 
covered and that this error caused Mr and Mrs F some upset and disappointment. So it paid 
them £100 to reflect this.
Ive thought carefully about what fair compensation should be. Mr and Mrs F say that if 
theyd been told their claim wouldnt be covered upfront, they mightve been able to recover 
some money from their tour operator. If I was satisfied that but for UKIs mistake, Mr and Mrs 
F might otherwise have been able to recover some money from the tour operator, Id likely 
have directed UKI to compensate them for this. However, like our investigator, Ive also 
looked closely at the tour operators booking terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs F cancelled their trip less than 14 days before they were due to travel. It seems 
Mr Fs mother sadly passed away 11 days before their date of planned departure and UKIs 
notes indicate they first got in touch to make a claim on 13 August 2021  five days before 
they were due to depart. The tour operators table of cancellation fees says that if a holiday 
is cancelled between 0 and 14 days ahead of the departure date, 100% cancellation charges 
will apply. And the tour operators table of amendment fees shows that if a person asks to 
travel on a later day than planned, 0  14 days ahead of travel, it will be treated as a 
cancellation. As such, it seems that even if UKI had told Mr and Mrs F upfront that their claim 
wasnt covered; they wouldnt have been entitled to any refund from the tour operator. So I 
dont think I could fairly find that but for UKIs mistake, Mr and Mrs F wouldve been able to 
recover their holiday costs from the tour operator.
I dont doubt how upsetting and frustrating it mustve been for Mr and Mrs F when they 
learned that their claim hadnt been paid. Especially given they were already going through a 
very distressing time and I sympathise with their position. But our role isnt to punish or fine 
the businesses we cover. And in these circumstances, I think the £100 compensation UKI 
has already paid Mr and Mrs F, together with the apology it offered, is fair compensation to 
recognise their loss of expectation and the upset that this caused. So Im not directing UKI to 
pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman