DRN-2848828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Union Reiserversicherung AG (URV) handled a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs W booked a cruise holiday. They were due to travel on 18 
March 2020. At the same time, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker, which Ill call H.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be 
a pandemic. Mr and Mrs W sought their GPs opinion about whether or not they should 
travel, given both their ages and the fact that they both had pre-existing medical conditions. 
Their GP didnt think Mr and Mrs W were fit to travel, so they cancelled their trip. Mr and Mrs 
W made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling the 
holiday.
Initially, URV asked Mr and Mrs W to obtain a medical certificate from their GP to confirm 
whether or not itd been medically necessary for them to cancel their holiday. Mr and Mrs W 
sent URV a supporting letter from their GP. URV later told Mr and Mrs W that they would 
need to try to recover their costs through their cruise provider or through their bank. 
Ultimately, the cruise provider paid Mr and Mrs W a full refund of the costs of their trip. So Mr 
and Mrs W withdrew the claim with URV. And after approaching H to ask for a refund of their 
policy premium, H refunded Mr and Mrs W the full cost of their policy as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
But Mr and Mrs W were still unhappy with the way URV had handled their claim. They felt it 
hadnt been supportive; that theyd wasted time on the phone and had incurred costs in 
getting the information URV had asked for. They considered that URV should reimburse 
them for the costs of their GPs letter; postage and telephone calls, as well as paying them 
compensation for the distress its handling of the claim had caused them. They asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought URV had handled Mr and Mrs Ws claim fairly. She felt the policy 
terms made it clear that URV would only pay cancellation costs which couldnt be recovered 
from elsewhere. So she thought itd been reasonable for URV to direct Mr and Mrs W to their 
cruise provider to try and get their money back. She also thought the policy terms made it 
clear that a policyholder needed to provide URV with evidence to support the reason for the 
cancellation of their trip before it would pay a claim. So she thought itd been reasonable for 
URV to ask for information and for a medical report when it looked into the claim. And she 
didnt think URV was responsible for paying for the costs of obtaining any necessary 
information. Overall, she didnt think URV needed to take any action.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. Ive summarised their detailed response to our investigator. They 
accepted that the policy terms required them to try and recover their cancellation costs from 
elsewhere before URV would be liable to pay a cancellation claim. They had approached the 
cruise provider and their bank to try and get a refund and initially, the cruise provider had 
told them theyd need to claim the money back through URV. The policy had deliberately 
been set-up five months before departure just in case they couldnt travel on medical 
grounds. They felt that URV had offered them no support in dealing with the other parties 
and theyd felt abandoned. Theyd lost confidence in URV and had pressured the cruise 
provider to pay their cancellation costs. If the cruise provider had refused to do so, URV 
wouldve been liable for the claim. They felt vindicated in asking for compensation to 
recognise their time, costs and anguish they were caused in pursuing this claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think URV treated them fairly. 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether URV 
treated them reasonably.
Did URV handle the claim reasonably?
Ive looked closely at all of the information both parties have provided. URVs notes show 
that when it spoke with Mr W in early April 2020, he explained that hed cancelled the trip 
two days before the cruise provider did so, on his GPs advice. The terms of Mr and Mrs Ws 
contract with URV say that it covers cancellation due to a policyholders illness. But it also 
says that URV wont pay a claim if: you are unable to provide us with the information we 
may reasonably require to confirm the reason you cancelled your trip.
In cases where a policyholder has cancelled their holiday due to illness, most, if not all 
insurers, will generally expect a policyholder to provide medical evidence from their treating 
doctor to show that cancellation was medically necessary. Thats because its a 
policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on the policy. As Mr and Mrs W 
initially cancelled the trip because of health concerns, rather than because the provider had 
cancelled the cruise, I think it was reasonable for URV to require medical evidence to 
support the claim. And most insurers will generally expect a policyholder to meet the costs of 
obtaining any medical evidence, or indeed, other paperwork they might ask for in order to 
assess a claim. That would include call and postage costs. This means that I dont think it 
was unfair for URV to decline to reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the costs of the medical 
evidence and postage.
However, ultimately, URV didnt go on to assess whether or not itd been medically 
necessary for Mr and Mrs W to cancel their trip. I say that because URVs notes show that 
when Mr and Mrs W first cancelled their trip with their cruise provider, it offered them the 
chance to rebook a different cruise with it a couple of months later, although the trip it offered 
wasnt like-for-like. However, this cruise also later had to be cancelled due to the pandemic. 
It seems that Mr and Mrs W now accept that the terms of their contract with URV state that it 
will pay up to £500 of cancellation costs which a policyholder cant get back from elsewhere. 
Given the cruise providers cancellation of the second cruise and given the clarity of this 
policy term, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for URV to direct Mr and Mrs W to 
request a refund from the cruise provider before it would agree to further assess the claim.Should URV pay Mr and Mrs W compensation?
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Ws submissions that they feel URV let them down and didnt 
provide them with support in dealing with their cruise provider and their bank. But this isnt 
something I would reasonably expect an insurer to do  its role is to assess claims. It isnt to 
liaise with third-party companies on a policyholders behalf to try and resolve issues with 
those companies. I do appreciate how stressful the situation mustve been for Mr and Mrs W, 
especially given their health concerns during a period of national lockdown and worry. And I 
sympathise with their position. 
But I can see that Mr and Mrs Ws claim was made on 23 March 2020. They spoke to URV 
to keep it updated about their dealings with the cruise provider. And they told URV on 12 
May 2020 that theyd reached a settlement with it. So I dont think the claim was 
unnecessarily or unreasonably delayed, especially taking into account the unprecedented 
and unique circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Theyve also had a full refund of their 
policy premium from H, which they werent strictly entitled to, given theyd had the benefit of 
cancellation cover for around four months. Ive borne in mind too that URV told Mr and Mrs 
W that if they couldnt recover their money from the cruise provider or from their bank, it 
would relook at their claim. I havent seen any persuasive evidence to show me that URV 
wouldnt have reconsidered the claim if Mr and Mrs W hadnt obtained a settlement from 
their cruise provider or their bank.
This means I dont think URV made any errors for which it needs to pay Mr and Mrs W any 
compensation. I think it handled their claim fairly and so Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman