The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc didn't tell him it had registered a default 
notice against his loan account in March 2019. He's also unhappy that the bank wouldn't set 
up a repayment plan for the loan account at that time.
What happened
Mr S had a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Santander. Mr S got into financial 
difficulties and in early 2019, he tried to set up a repayment plan to pay off the arrears and  
to avoid a Default Notice being registered. However Santander said any plan would need to 
clear the balance within 15 months and at that time, Mr S wasn't in a position to do this. For 
that reason it couldn't agree to set up a plan and on 5 March 2019 it issued a Default Notice 
on the loan account.
Mr S says he didn't get a copy of the Notice before it was registered and only found out in 
January of this year. He feels Santander sent it to the wrong address and hadn't updated its 
records after he'd told it about his change of address in January 2019. He doesn't think this 
is fair. And he's unhappy that Santander wouldn't agree a repayment plan with him in 2019 
and, instead, issued the Default Notice against him.
Santander said it hadn't been able to set up a repayment plan in 2019 because Mr S couldn't 
afford to make the necessary payments. It had explained this at the time and in its final 
response letter of 4 May 2019 so it considered  this issue was now out of time to be looked 
at again.
With regard to the Default Notice, this had been sent to the address on file and which Mr S 
had agreed in his calls of 8 February and 28 March 2019. It didn't agree it had made a 
mistake or that it was responsible if it hadn't arrived.
Our investigator said Mr S hadn't referred his complaint about Santander's refusal to set up a 
repayment plan until more than 6 months after the date of Santander's final response and, 
on that basis, it was now out of time to be considered further. For that reason, he was only 
able to look at the question of why Mr S hadn't received notice of the Default Notice when it 
was issued.  He couldn't explain why Mr S hadn't received this at the time but he'd seen it 
had been sent to the correct address so he didn't agree Santander was responsible for this.
Mr S remained unhappy that he hadn't received a copy of the Notice and that Santander 
hadn't agreed to set up a repayment plan before issuing the Default Notice. He asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1631715Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that in this decision I'm only able to look at why Mr S didn't receive a copy of 
the Default Notice when it was issued. This is because Mr S complained to Santander about 
its decision not to set up the repayment plan in 2019 and a final response letter was sent to 
him about this in May 2019. That letter set out his options including the time limits for 
bringing a complaint to this service. 
The rules that govern what complaints we can accept say that complaints to this service 
must be brought within six months of the date of the final response which in this case would 
have been by 4 November 2019. Mr S didn't contact us until January of this year and 
while I've looked to see if there are any exceptional circumstances in this case to justify 
extending this time limit, I haven't seen any. For that reason, that part of this complaint is 
now of time to be considered further.
However I've gone on to consider why Mr S didn't receive the Notice when it was sent out. I 
can see Mr S feels this is because Santander sent it to the wrong address but I've listened to 
the calls of 8 February and 28 March last year and can see that Santander checked Mr S's 
address with him on both times and also explained that a default would be issued unless 
the arrears could be cleared. It then sent the Default Notice to that address. For that reason, 
I can't agree Santander made a mistake with the address on the Default Notice.
Unfortunately despite this, Mr S didn't get the letter enclosing the Notice. I can understand 
how frustrating that must be but provided the address on the Notice was correct - as it was- 
then Santander can't reasonably be responsible for what happens after it's posted.  And 
because Santander had already told Mr S that it would be issuing a default notice unless the 
arrears could be cleared I don't think there's been any actual detriment caused by the Notice 
going astray. 
However if Mr S still requires a copy of the Notice then I'd hope Santander would be able to 
provide this. 
I realise this isn't the decision Mr S was hoping for but for the reasons given I don't consider 
Santander has made a mistake in this case and I won't be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman