DRN-4371523
The complaint
Mr P complains about Helvetia Global Solutions Ltds (Helvetia) claim settlement under his 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought a car for £28,500 and then took out a GAP policy a few months later to cover 
any losses in the event his car is deemed a total loss or stolen. Mr Ps car was then stolen, 
and his motor insurer placed a market value of £28,750 on his car. After deducting the 
excess of £400, Mr P received £28,350 from his motor insurer. Mr P then made a claim 
under his GAP policy and was offered £150  being the difference between the amount paid 
to him by his motor insurer and the invoice price. Mr P felt this was unfair, so he complained 
to Helvetia. 
Helvetia responded and explained the policy would cover Mr Ps excess, but only up to the 
invoice price of his car  so the settlement of £150 had been calculated correctly.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She thought Helvetia hadnt acted unfairly in the 
way they settled Mr Ps claim. Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The primary dispute here relates to the settlement received by Mr P for his 
GAP insurance claim. Mr P feels he shouldve been offered £550  which represents the 
£400 excess he has paid and the difference of £150 between what he received from his 
motor insurer and the invoice price of his car. Helvetia say the £150 theyve paid is correct 
and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. 
I think its important to mention at this stage, GAP is an insurance policy which covers the 
difference between the market value of a car when its written off or stolen, and a previously 
agreed amount. There are though different types of GAP cover. My starting point therefore is 
Mr Ps GAP insurance policy documents. 
The Schedule of Insurance shows Mr P took out a Return to Invoice GAP policy  this 
means Helvetia would pay Mr P the difference between what he receives from his motor 
insurer, and what he paid for his car. Theres a purchase invoice which shows Mr P paid 
£28,500 for his car and the Schedule of Insurance records the current value and GAP limit 
as £28,500. The policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions and, under a section 
headed What is covered? it says, The benefits applicable to you depend on the type of 
GAP policy you selected when applying for this insurance. In this case, Mr P bought Return 
to Invoice GAP cover, which the policy says, Covers the difference between: the motor 
insurance settlement and the net invoice price you originally paid for your insured vehicle 
I do understand why Mr P has complained though as, under the same What is covered? 
section, it says the excess is also included and, we will cover up to £1000 in respect of any 
motor insurance policy excess that you have had to pay to your motor insurer as part of your 
total loss claim. But this same section does also say, The payment is up to your insured 
vehicle purchase price. and this amount includes payment of any excess And the 
Schedule of Insurance does also make it clear the limit of cover for Mr Ps car is £28,500. 
So, by paying Mr P £150, Helvetia have acted in line with the terms and conditions by 
settling Mr Ps claim up to the invoice price. I acknowledge it means Mr P hasnt received the 
£400 deducted for the excess, but the terms and conditions and Schedule of Insurance 
explain any payment will be limited to the invoice price  so payment of £150 returns Mr P to 
the invoice price of his car.  
Mr P says the terms and conditions say Helvetia will cover the value of his car up to £50,000 
 and theyll also cover the excess separate to the value of his car. I agree the terms and 
conditions do say the maximum benefit payable is £50,000. But, as mentioned above, the 
policy documents do explain any settlement is limited to the invoice price  and in this case 
thats £28,500. In relation to the excess, I dont dispute the terms and conditions do make it 
clear the excess is covered  but it also makes it clear any payment is limited to the invoice 
price. I cant see theres any section of the terms and conditions which suggests the excess 
will be covered over and above any return to invoice payment. 
I understand Mr P believes the terms and conditions show theres no relationship between 
the value of his car and the excess  and the policy should cover both separately. Mr P says 
this means it should cover the £150 to return him to the invoice price and also £400 for the 
excess he has paid. The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), under 
ICOBS: 2.2.2 R requires information from a business to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Where policy terms and conditions are open to differing, yet reasonable, interpretations, I 
would look favourably on the party that hasnt drafted the wording. 
In this case, I dont believe the policy wording is ambiguous. Theres the terms and 
conditions Ive referred to above  which I think makes it clear any payment is limited to the 
invoice price. But in addition to this, Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps interpretation of the 
policy terms and what this would mean for any settlement. If the policy wording applied in the 
way Mr P believes it should, he would receive £28,900 in total (£28,350 + £550)  this is not 
only greater than the invoice price, but also greater than the motor insurers valuation of his 
car. This type of policy is designed to cover a difference (a gap) between what Mr P received 
from his motor insurer and the invoice price  but if the policy were to apply in the way Mr P 
believes it should, he would be receiving £150 more than the market value of his car. And I 
dont believe that is how the GAP policy is intended to work or what its designed to cover. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, but I wish to reassure Mr P Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman