DRN-1593601
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his mortgage. He wants the different parts of his mortgage 
coupled together.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with NatWest. He then moved property and transferred (ported) his 
mortgage product to the new property; this became known as Part 1. Mr B borrowed more 
money to buy the new property, and this became known as Part 2. After moving into the new 
property, Mr B borrowed further monies, which became known as Part 3 and 4. Mr B said all 
the parts of the mortgage were due to end at the same time.
But Mr B said that when he took out various parts of his mortgage in 2017, he was told when 
the mortgage product ended, he could combine the lending together. Mr B said that by 
keeping the parts of the mortgage separate, hed have to keep paying several product fees 
when he changed mortgage products, and the delayed handling of his complaint about this 
issue caused him to pay unnecessary product fees as he believed his complaint would be 
upheld due to comments by the complaints handler.
Mr B complained to NatWest. It said Mr B had been advised about the suitability of the 
various parts of his borrowing and he consistently said that he wanted short-term stability 
and the ability to overpay after the two-year products had ended. The various parts were all 
due to end at the same time, but this was different to the issue about when the products 
were due to end  Mr B was advised to take out shorter products for the later borrowing to 
meet the needs he discussed with NatWest. It also said that having listened to the calls, 
there was no evidence that he was told in 2017 the interest rate for Part 1 would apply to the 
other parts in due course.
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He had listened to the first call when Mr B wanted to take out part 2, and said Mr B was told 
the two different products had different end dates; Mr B had said that he could wait to 
negotiate a rate for both parts of the mortgage. The investigator said he didnt accept 
NatWest had indicated to Mr B that his complaint would be upheld and Mr B chose to take 
out a new product while he waited for the outcome, despite being updated about the 
progress of his complaint. The investigator said that there wasnt evidence to show that Mr B 
could combine the different parts of his mortgage as he wished.
Mr B disagreed. He said that the complaints handler had mislead him and he wasnt asking 
for much to resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth explaining that the end date of a mortgage (the mortgage term), the date by when 
the mortgage must be paid in full, isnt the same thing as the end date as a mortgage 
product. The product is the wrapper for the mortgage and sets the interest rate; without a 
product, the interest rate generally is the standard variable rate. A product can last for a 
number of years, but generally somewhere between two and ten years. When theres a 
series of borrowings, it isnt uncommon for the mortgage term to be set for the same date for 
all the borrowing but for there to be a variety of products with different end dates.
There are two ways to end up with the same product end date for a variety of products when 
theres been a series of borrowing under a mortgage. A consumer could remortgage the 
whole amount of borrowing (paying any relevant early repayment charges). The alternative 
is to let one or more products end and pay the standard variable rate until the last product is 
due to end, and then agree a new product covering all the borrowing.
Mr B took out a series of borrowings and I can see from the evidence, including both calls 
and the mortgage offers, that he was told about the various end dates of the mortgage 
products. He even said in one call that he could wait after one product ended for another to 
also come to an end and then remortgage. In the written fact find in April 2017, I can see 
Mr B was told and also you may look to review both parts of your mortgage in 2019 and you 
do not want to be tied into a longer term deal on this basis. This isnt a promise that Mr B 
can add the various parts of his mortgage to part 1; its a reminder that he can remortgage 
the parts together once the products had all ended.
There isnt any evidence, other than Mr Bs account, that NatWest said he could add the 
various parts of his borrowing to part 1. Such an offer would be unusual and I think its more 
likely that Mr B has confused the discussion about waiting after one product ended to 
remortgage with this point.
Turning to what happened after Mr B complained, Im not persuaded that NatWest indicated 
the complaint would be upheld. The evidence shows that Mr B was told it would take longer 
than hoped to conclude consideration of the complaint, but if the complaint was upheld, Mr B 
would be put in the position that he shouldve been in all along  this is what this service 
would expect a business to say. Mr B chose to take out a new product rather than wait. That 
was his choice, and not something for which NatWest is at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
15 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman