DRN-1077729
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sold his debt to a collections 
company even though it told him it wouldnt.
What happened
Mr S had two accounts with RBS which were in debt and it was monitoring the repayments 
he agreed to make. Mr S complained to RBS because it sold his debt to a collections 
company even though it promised it wouldnt. RBS didnt have any record of saying it 
wouldnt sell the debt but says it was entitled to because Mr S didnt make enough 
repayments It apologised to Mr S anyway and offered him £50 of gift vouchers as its final 
response on the matter. Mr S didnt think the offer was enough and tried to contact RBS but 
it didnt always return his calls. 
RBS apologised for not calling back and offered £60 and the cost of his calls. It also sent a 
second final response letter. Mr S made more calls to RBS which it didnt always return, and 
it apologised for not doing so, but he felt it should pay him £60 every time it happened. He 
also wanted RBS to take the debt back to correct what he thought was its mistake in selling 
it to a debt collection company.
Our investigator felt that RBS acted fairly because:
it made a commercial decision to sell the debt, which it is allowed to do, so it didnt 
act unreasonably;
it offered £50 of gift vouchers to Mr S and apologised for any mistake it made in 
saying it wouldnt sell the debt, and
it made an additional offer of £60, to pay call costs, and to apologise for not returning 
calls. She didnt think it was reasonable to expect the same payment every time it 
didnt call back.
 
Mr S disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and my decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint  Ill explain 
why.
It may help to start by saying that banks are generally allowed to sell debts in certain 
circumstances, such as when the account holder isnt making payments to reduce what they 
owe. That is the situation here, so I am satisfied that RBS was entitled to sell Mr Ss debt 
but, I can look at how it handled this matter. There isnt a record of RBS promising not to sell the debt and it hasnt made a firm comment 
to this service on this matter. Mr S says it did make the promise and I have no reason to 
doubt his recollection. However, RBS has acted as if it did make the promise and it 
apologised and offered £50 of gift vouchers for any upset caused. In my view its unlikely 
that RBS wouldve made a promise that it would never sell the debt - its more likely that it 
wouldve said it wouldnt sell the debt at that time. So I think the offer is for any 
misunderstanding or incorrect information it might have given. RBS isnt challenging Mr Ss 
complaint but it is recognising that it might not have handled the matter as well as it couldve 
done. I think the apology and £50 of gift vouchers is enough to resolve this part of the 
complaint.
After RBS made the offer described above, Mr S continued to contact it about his complaint. 
On the first occasion that RBS didnt return his call, it offered Mr S £60 and the cost of calls 
as an apology. He made further calls to RBS which failed to return but, although it 
apologised, it didnt make any more payment offers. Mr S felt that he should get the same 
amount each time RBS failed to return his calls. I understand that it must have been 
frustrating for Mr S and he didnt consider that his complaint had been resolved. But RBS 
was entitled to want to draw a line under the issues here  and thats why it sent him its final 
response. It meant that, even though Mr S didnt agree, RBS had given its final word on this 
matter and he could now approach this service.
So I think it was fair for RSB to decide that it wasnt going to continue to talk to Mr S about 
this issue. That said it was wrong of RBS not to call him back. I think RBS has done enough 
to resolve this issue by offering one payment of £60, payment of call costs and apologising 
for not calling back.
I dont think its fair to ask RBS to pay Mr S £60 for every call it didnt return though. Thats 
because I dont think the level of inconvenience wouldve been significant enough to warrant 
further financial compensation. I say this especially as Mr S knew and understood RBS 
position by this point and that he also had the option to use our service.
So overall, it is my decision that RBS doesnt need to do any more about this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc need not do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman