DRN-4264190
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc caused delays in uploading her identity 
documents which meant she didnt receive a statement she needed for her closed account. 
Miss S has subsequently complained that Sainsburys hasnt actioned her Subject Access 
Request (SAR). Miss S said she is seeking £300 compensation.
 
What happened
Miss S called Sainsburys on 2 March 2023 to get a statement for her account. Sainsburys 
said she was unable to answer its security questions and so it requested further security 
documents to unblock her account. It said it needed these via the post for her previous and 
new address in order to reset her telephone banking security.
Miss S was unhappy that Sainsburys couldnt action her request from her call and sent in 
some information on 2 March 2023. Sainsburys said this went to the wrong address and 
wrote to Miss S on 23 March 2023 to say that it couldnt accept the copy of her driving 
licence as it didnt show an address. It set out what it needed to satisfy its security checks. 
Miss S complained to Sainsburys that she had sent identification information by 8 March 
2023 and followed up with a call, in which Sainsburys agent confirmed receipt. She said she 
didnt receive Sainsburys latter of 23 March 2023. 
Sainsburys agent said that they tried to provide Miss S information on a call about 
acceptable documents from its lists, but she kept interrupting. And the agent said she was 
abusive and hung up before the full list of acceptable documentation could be described.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Sainsburys told Miss S 
what she needed to send, and the address, but her documents didnt meet its requirement 
and she sent them to a different address  a general mail department. The investigator said 
when Miss S phoned to chase, Sainsburys found her information. He said Sainsburys agent 
didnt imply that the information was acceptable, just that it had been received and would be 
passed on to the right department to be reviewed.  
The investigator said Sainsburys wasnt aware its letter hadnt been received and so its 
communications appeared to be contradictory. He concluded that Sainsburys wasnt 
responsible for the delay in actioning Miss Ss identity verification. He said that Miss S still 
needed to satisfy Sainsburys security requirements for it to process the statements to be 
sent. This also applied to the SAR to be processed, which he thought was reasonable.
Miss S said the investigator had missed the point of her complaint and is prejudiced, and 
requested an ombudsman review. She said she sent Sainsburys her driving license to 
identify her name, not address, and a utility bill showing her current address. But its agent 
mistakenly took issue with the license thinking it was the only document sent in to confirm 
the address and failed to identify the utility bill. Had Sainsburys checked all documents she 
had sent in as requested, she said she would have passed security. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the inconvenience and upset Miss S has suffered as a 
consequence of not meeting Sainsburys account security measures. Miss S has said that 
she isnt complaining about the measures, but how there was a lack of clarity in what was 
wrongly sent to satisfy the security measures.  
In common with all banks, Sainsburys has to apply fraud security checks to protect 
customers accounts. Banks are allowed to determine the checks they will put in place and 
so our service wouldnt tell them what security checks they should carry out, and we wouldnt 
intervene in these checks unless we thought they provide an unfair outcome for a consumer. 
Miss S said that Sainsburys confused her and gave no clarity as to how to meet the security 
measures. Having looked through all of the correspondence and calls I dont think this is an 
accurate assessment of Sainsburys response to Miss Ss requests. I will explain my reasons 
for reaching this conclusion.
Miss S sent Sainsburys identification information on 2 March 2023, but his didnt pass 
security. She said that at no point did Sainsburys email its security requirements or 
communicate with her to ensure she understood what the problem was. I can see Miss Ss 
frustration on calling Sainsburys to be told that it didnt have her information. The reason for 
this was that Miss S didnt send the information to the address Sainsburys had provided her 
in a previous call. Sainsburys agent was eventually able to locate the information. 
Miss S said that Sainsburys agent said the information was acceptable and she would 
receive an access code, but when this didnt happen she complained. Sainsburys complaint 
handler told her the information didn't pass security as it showed her old address. Miss S 
said this leaves the question as to the whereabouts of the copy of her utility bill with the 
address she moved to in March 2021. 
During Miss Ss call on 2 March 2023, Sainsburys said it needed two documents - one from 
its List A and one from List B, with one to show her current address and one to show her 
previous address. So, this could be either by the driving licence having the current address 
and the utility bill showing the old address, or vice versa. Or by any other documents shown 
on List A and B in the correct combination. Sainsburys agent provided Miss S with the 
address to send in the information. 
Ive seen the documents Miss S sent to Sainsburys and that she sent these to a different 
address  which explains the lack of update from Sainsburys. Miss S sent a utility bill, so 
this isnt missing, and List B requirements have been met, but a document from List A is 
outstanding. Miss S thinks she was told that her documents met Sainsburys requirements. 
Sainsburys agent didnt tell Miss S that two documents from List B together with her driving 
licence would be acceptable as proof of identify. The agent said he would refer the 
documents for checking and the relevant department would be in touch. The agent didnt tell 
Miss S that the documents were acceptable.
Miss S pursued the issue, and this was followed by Sainsburys letter of 23 March 2023 
confirming the security information required. This ought to have clarified the situation, but 
Miss S didnt receive the letter. She has said she is due damages from Sainsburys for not 
ensuring the letter was received, and not clarifying that the partial copy of her driving licence 
she had sent wasnt sufficient. I have seen a copy of Sainsburys letter and I have no reason 
to doubt that this was sent. It was unfortunate the letter wasnt received by Miss S, but 
Sainsburys records show it was dispatched. Sainsburys complaint handler confirmed by email to Miss S that her copy of the partial copy 
of her driving licence that she sent wasnt acceptable. I agree with the investigator that the 
complaint handler could usefully have added that List B requirements had been satisfied, but 
a List A document was still outstanding. Miss S said she is due damages for Sainsburys 
failure to confirm her documents were received in spite of her requests. I have seen that 
Sainsburys did check that Miss Ss documents had been received and confirmed they would 
be sent to the correct department for verification. 
Miss S said she was left with confusion when she asked for clarity. Sainsburys said it 
followed its security processes correctly and provided the required information in order for 
Miss S to unblock the security. I have seen that Sainsburys clarified the addresses it 
needed, and that the front and back of the driving licence was required, and the address the 
documents were to be sent to. 
Sainsburys didnt receive the required documentation, as a document from List A remained 
outstanding, and this is why Miss Ss account remained blocked. I havent found any error on 
Sainsburys part in its handling of Miss Ss account as it acted in accordance with its security 
procedures, and so I cant uphold this complaint and award her compensation. I realise Miss 
S will disappointed by this outcome, but I hope she will understand the reasons.
Since Sainsburys thinks that Miss S hasnt provided adequate evidence to meet the 
requirements of its account security it would have appeared very anomalous for it to then 
send her information in response to her SAR. If she hasnt already, it remains open to Miss S 
to bring a complaint about the SAR to the Information Commissioners Office. But I hope she 
will overcome the difficulty she has faced in meeting Sainsburys security requirements so as 
to unblock her account and receive the SAR information.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman