DRN-3980670
The complaint
Miss C complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2015, Miss C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
SMFL. Miss C paid a £100 deposit and was required to make 44 monthly repayments of 
around £185, with a final optional payment of around £484 if she wanted to own the car at 
the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was around £8,719.
Miss C says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks and that she wasnt 
aware these were needed until she saw some advice online in 2022. She says if it had 
completed adequate checks, it would have seen that she had payday loans at the time, and 
that the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included a credit check and gathering evidence of Miss Cs employment 
and income. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss C didnt agree and said that her payday loans were clearly visible on her statements as 
was the fact her account was overdrawn. She said that her income fluctuated based on the 
hours she worked and that she had to make contributions towards her household expenses. 
She said had adequate checks taken place before lending SMFL would have realised the 
agreement was unaffordable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
SMFL has said that it carried out a credit check and that Miss C had a current account and 
credit card account that were well managed and while there were small excess limits at the 
time of application there were no current or previous arrears. It said Miss C had one historic 
default from 2012. I havent seen a copy of Miss Cs credit file from the time but note 
Miss Cs comment about her use of payday loans. However, without further evidence I do 
not find I can say I have enough to say that Miss Cs credit file alone meant this agreement 
shouldnt have been provided.
SMFL asked Miss C about her employment and received a recent payslip. This was dated 
15 May 2015 and showed a payment for around £734 and income for the financial year to 
date of around £2,432. I do not find it unreasonable that SMFL relied on this information. 
And, while I note Miss Cs comments about her hours changing, having looked through her 
bank statements these show she was generally paid every two weeks in the months leading 
up to her agreement and while the amounts did vary, they gave an average monthly income 
of around £1,300 which is in line with the amount suggested by her income to date on the 
May payslip. 
SMFL didnt ask Miss C about her expenditure. Without knowing what Miss Cs regular 
committed expenditure was SMFL wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether 
the agreement was affordable or not. I cant be certain what Miss C would have told SMFL 
had it asked about her regular expenditure. I dont think SMFL needed to request bank 
statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Miss Cs statements as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements Miss C has provided for the period leading up to her 
application. These show that Miss Cs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time 
was around £400. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as other credit 
commitments and charges, communications payments and insurance. Additional to this 
Miss C was paying for food and transport. Taking this into account, I do not think that had 
further checks taken place, I can say that SMLF should have found this agreement to have 
been unaffordable at the point it was provided. For this reason, Im not persuaded that SMFL 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman