DRN-4321313
The complaint
Mr J complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for his car 
following an accident which led to it being written off.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr J insured his car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. 
In February 2023, Mr J was unfortunately involved in a car accident. Admiral subsequently 
deemed the car to be a total loss and offered £13,060 to settle the claim, less any 
deductibles such as Mr Js excess. 
Mr J wasnt happy, so he complained about the valuation. Admiral didnt change its decision. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. He said he cant 
replace his vehicle like for like with the amount Admiral has offered. And the adverts he 
found online for similar vehicles were for considerably more (£15,995 - £16,900) for the 
same vehicle. 
An Investigator at this service looked into matters and thought Admiral needed to pay a 
further £1,866 plus interest. This is because they ran their own valuations using the motor 
trade guides. This gave four valuations (£12,970, £13,550, £15,281, £15,948). They 
discounted the lowest valuation and the average of the three remaining guides came to 
£14,926, which was £1,866 more than Admiral offered. Mr J accepted the Investigators 
recommendation.
Admiral didnt agree. It said as theres an even spread across the lower and upper values  
the difference between the two lower values is £580.00 and the difference between the two 
higher values is £667.00  it didnt agree it was fair to discount the lowest valuation. So, it 
agreed to pay an average of the four guides (£14,446.25).
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must explain Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt my role to give an exact value of Mr Js car. Instead, my role is to decide whether 
Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when reaching its market value and 
whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it 
has. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mr Js policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it originally determined to be £13,060. Admiral referred to two trade guides to obtain a 
value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. 
We use a similar approach and the same trade guides  in addition to two others - to help 
decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. In the absence of 
other evidence, we may find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value as their 
valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
I can see the motor trade guides used by Admiral were for cars of the same make, model, 
age and mileage as Mr Js at the date of loss. Ive seen the Investigator carried out further 
checks using two further motor guides and, as a result, didnt agree Admirals valuation was 
fair. They ultimately came to a fair valuation using an average of three valuations (£14,926). 
Ive also seen adverts for cars of the same age, model, features and similar mileage to Mr 
Js both online as well as from one of the motor trade guides where the majority of adverts 
are above £14,975. 
In light of this, I dont consider Admiral has demonstrated it has acted fairly in reaching the 
value of £13,060. I say this because Im more persuaded the valuation recommended by the 
Investigator - £14,926 - is a fairer reflection of market value than the offers made by Admiral. 
I note Admiral doesnt accept how the Investigator got to the value they did. But I can see an 
approach where the adverts support both lower motor valuation guides being discounted. 
That said, this isnt the approach Ive taken here as I consider the value reached by the 
Investigator to be more comparable with the price of similar vehicles on sale in April (the 
date of adverts sent to this service by Mr J) and more recently from the valuations and my 
own research. Whilst I appreciate these are advertised prices and there maybe reductions 
agreed, or incentives offered if a customer was ready to buy one, Ive balanced this with the 
fact the valuations now visible to me online are eight months after the date of loss. Taking all 
the above into account, Im satisfied the valuation reached by the Investigator of £14,926 is a 
fair reflection of market value at the time directly before the loss.
In summary, Im not satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mr Js car was fair 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. It now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay Mr J the difference between what it valued his car at (£13,060) and the 
market value of £14,926. This is a difference of £1,866. It also needs to add 8% simple 
interest to this amount from the date the initial payment was made to Mr J to the date of 
settlement.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to do the things set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman