DRN-2857790
The complaint
Mr P complains about problems getting in touch with Barclays Bank UK PLC when he 
needed help accessing his online banking facility. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P used Barclays online chat system as he was having difficulties recalling 
the PIN he needed to access his online banking facility. Mr P was asked to call Barclays. 
Mr P has told us he called the number he was given, entered details like his card number 
and date of birth, and was then left on hold for around 90 mins. After that time Mr P ended 
the call. 
Mr P subsequently visited a branch and was able to resolve the online banking access 
issues. 
Mr P sent three complaint letters to Barclays but didnt receive responses. After Mr P sent 
Barclays a letter by recorded delivery it responded. Barclays apologised for the wait times Mr 
P had experienced and said it didnt receive the earlier letters he sent. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained he is vulnerable and so wanted to resolve the issue he experienced with 
his online banking credentials without visiting a branch. As a result, Mr P first used Barclays 
online chat service then made a telephone call to the number he was given. I can see Mr P 
spent a long time waiting on hold and I understand why, after 90 minutes, he decided to end 
the call. I agree that waiting 90 minutes without speaking to someone isnt what wed 
normally expect to see. 
Barclays has explained that call waiting times have been an issue since March 2020. 
Barclays says Covid restrictions meant it had to close certain call centres and I think its 
reasonable to note it had to significantly change the way it operates on a day to day basis. In 
Mr Ps case, he called Barclays at around 19:00 and was on hold for about 90 minutes. I 
think its reasonable to say Mr P phoned outside of standard working hours and its clear his 
call was impacted by the issues Barclays was experiencing at the time. 
Whilst I agree it was inconvenient, I think the delay reflects the challenging environment 
Barclays was operating under rather than an error. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent 
found Barclays caused unreasonable or unavoidable delays in this case. 
Mr P says he visited a branch for assistance but was concerned about doing so as hes 
vulnerable. Mr P has told us government guidance at the time said he shouldve been 
shielding. I appreciate Mr P wanted to resolve the online banking issues experienced so took 
the decision to visit a branch. But Mr P also had the option of calling Barclays back the 
following day if he wasnt willing to risk a branch visit. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but whilst I agree there were substantial delays when trying to 
contact Barclays, Im satisfied its apology in the final response is a fair way to resolve his 
complaint. 
Mr P has provided copies of letters he sent to Barclays when he complained. Barclays has 
explained that whilst its offices were not operating at full capacity, it still has staff processing 
post. Barclays says there is no record of receiving Mr Ps initial letters. It was only after Mr P 
wrote to Barclays towards the end of August 2020 that it has a record of receiving his 
complaint. A response was issued a short time later. 
I can see how frustrating it was that Mr Ps letters werent responded to as he sent them. But 
Im satisfied Barclays didnt receive them as it claims. On balance, I agree with the 
investigators view that Barclays wouldve responded if it had received Mr Ps initial 
complaint letters. 
I understand Mr P feels strongly in this matter, but Im satisfied the waiting time Mr P 
experienced when he called Barclays were due to the challenging conditions it was 
operating under, rather than an avoidable delay. And Im satisfied Barclays responded to Mr 
Ps concerns when it received his complaint letter sent towards the end of August 2020. As 
Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman