DRN-1622010
 
The complaint
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited, which he 
arranged through Hastings Direct (Hastings). Hes unhappy at how Hastings handled the 
claim on his policy after he was involved in an accident. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a road traffic accident on 2 September 2019, where his car was 
recovered by the police. He reported this to Hastings the following day, and he was told 
theyd log a notification until the police released the car. This happened on 12 September 
and Hastings arranged for the car to be collected and taken to the repairers.
The repairer refused to accept the car because the handbrake was on and they didnt have 
the keys. So they couldnt move the car to a safe place while it was awaiting repair. This 
happened again on 17 September, and it was not until this point that Mr S was asked for the 
keys.
Mr S couldnt have a courtesy car until the repairs had accepted his car, and had to rely on 
lifts from his disabled father to get around and to work. And when Hastings gave Mr S a 
courtesy car it was a manual - his licence only allowed him to drive an automatic. It wasnt 
until 19 September that Mr S received a car he could drive.
Mr S has complained that Hastings didnt chase the police to have his car released sooner. 
Hes also complained about the delay in him getting a suitable courtesy car, and the 
inconvenience this caused him.
Our investigator found that the car was with the police until 12 September because they 
were still completing the relevant paperwork. So he felt that Hastings hadnt done anything 
wrong by not chasing  they couldnt control how long the police took to deal with the 
paperwork, and they couldnt influence the police to do this sooner. As Mr Ss car was 
released at the earliest opportunity, he didnt think Hastings needed to do anything more.
But the investigator found that Hasting couldve done better when dealing with the courtesy 
car. He felt that they couldve asked Mr S for his car keys as soon as they knew the repairers 
needed these. He also felt they shouldve asked Mr S enough questions at the outset to 
establish his needs. Hastings offered Mr S £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused by the delays and lack of courtesy car. But the investigator said, because Mr Ss 
health condition was made worse by the stress of the situation, this should be increased to 
£150.
Hastings didnt agree with the investigator. They feel that the £75 they offered was sufficient 
for the trouble and upset Mr S was caused by their service failings. Because of this, the case 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed and, in their complaint response letter, Hastings 
acknowledged there was a delay caused as a result of the service they provided. So my 
decision will concentrate on whats a fair remedy in the circumstances.
Ive seen that Hastings arranged for Mr S to have a hire car, when a courtesy car wasnt 
available from the repairers, to try and lessen the impact of him being without one. While this 
meant that Mr S received alternative transport a few days earlier that he otherwise might 
have done, there was still a delay, and this delay was caused by Hastings.
Hastings also acknowledged that Mr S made numerous calls, and sent numerous emails, to 
Hastings while he was trying to sort this out. I agree with the investigator that this couldve 
been avoided if Hastings had established that he needed an automatic car at the outset, and 
told him the repairers needed the keys to his car as soon as they knew. This wouldve meant 
that Mr S couldve had the courtesy car much earlier than he did.
Mr S was inconvenienced by having to arrange lifts from a disabled relative while he was 
without a car, and this went on much longer than it should. Mr S also suffered from a medical 
condition that was exacerbated by stress, so the delay and the number of calls/emails he 
had to make didnt help this.
Putting things right
Considering all of these circumstances, I agree with the investigator that £150 is a fair 
remedy. Hastings should arrange to increase the compensation theyve paid to Mr S from 
£75 to £150. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited must ensure that my directions above are followed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman