DRN-4183400
The complaint
E, a company complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and closed its 
accounts without warning. It would like to receive a replacement debit card, compensation of 
£9,524 and an apology. E is represented by its director Mrs S.
What happened
Both E and Mrs S had accounts with NatWest. Following issues which led to the closure of 
Mrs Ss accounts, NatWest confirmed to E that its account wouldnt be affected.
In May 2022 the business debit card was cancelled and despite numerous requests and 
reassurances from NatWest it was not reissued. E says it has lost £9,254.00.
NatWest carried out a review of Es account. It blocked Es account for about two weeks in 
September 2022. NatWest sent E a notice to close letter dated 26 January 2023 giving 60 
days notice.
E complained to our service. One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She thought 
that NatWest hadnt given us enough evidence to be satisfied that they acted fairly when 
they decided to close Es account. She also thought E had been told that a new card was 
going to be issued when that wasnt the case. Es representative Mrs S spent time trying to 
get a new card issued on several occasions. She thought E should be compensated with 
£150 for both these issues. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the view she thought we hadnt considered the closure of the 
business account without notice and the subsequent loss of business clients and reputation.
E provided further documents to show loss of clients as a result of the limited access to the 
business account. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Following a review of Mrs S personal accounts NatWest carried out a review of Es account.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Es account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. These legal and regulatory requirements mean they 
have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to review an account at any time. 
While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments. I am satisfied 
NatWest were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Es account. 
As part of the review of Es account, the account was blocked between 13 September 2022 
and 27 September 2022. I am satisfied that NatWest didnt cause any unnecessary delays 
during the period the account was blocked, and they unblocked the account as quickly as 
possible, so Im satisfied they didnt act unfairly there.
Account closure
NatWest decided to close Es account and wrote to E and provided E with 60 days notice of 
account closure, the letter was dated 26 January 2023. 
NatWest needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a complaint. 
NatWest has failed to provide sufficient information about why it blocked Es accounts and 
the reasons why it no longer wanted E as a customer. So, in this particular case, because of 
the lack of information, I cant be satisfied that NatWest has treated E fairly when it closed 
Es account. Taking this into account, I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay 
E compensation for the trouble and upset caused by closing its account.
Mrs S has said she should have been told that the account would close and that a review 
was taking place. But I disagree NatWest isnt obliged to tell its customers that a review of 
their account is taking place or any reasons for the review. Mrs s has said that she never 
received the letter informing her Es account was closing. However, Im satisfied that 
NatWest sent the letter to the correct address and E hadnt highlighted any issues with their 
post so on balance Im satisfied the letter was sent.
I understand that Mrs S would like NatWest to explain the reason it applied the block to Es 
account and subsequently closed it. And provide her with the information it relied on to do 
so. But NatWest doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. 
And its under no obligation to tell Mrs S the reasons behind the account block and the 
account closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by 
not giving E this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Debit card
Mrs S has explained how NatWest promised on a number of occasions to provide E with a 
new debit card. Mrs S was given incorrect information about cards being issued and being 
lost and new replacement cards being issued. I accept that E was without the use of a 
business debit card from May 2022 until the account closed. 
Mrs S has said that this had the effect of limiting the business that E could carry out by 90%. 
However, having looked at account statements for E for the period after the debit card 
stopped working, I can see from the bank statement that the business continued to trade so I 
cant say that E was unable to carry out its business to the extent Mrs S has mentioned 
because of the loss of the debit card.
I note Mrs S was told in June 2022 that a new card wouldnt be issued to E and NatWest 
quoted from the terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied that by June 2022 E could have 
taken steps to arrange other banking facilities if as Mrs S says the loss of the debit card was 
having such a significant effect on the business. And I understand from what Mrs S has said 
that E got another business account, thereby mitigating Es losses which is what I would 
have expected it to do.
However, I think NatWest should have given E the correct information instead of giving Mrs S the impression that a new card would be available to E soon and asking Mrs S to 
request a new card and go to Es local branch etc. Because of this and because NatWest 
havent been able to provide this service with a reason for the account closure, I think E 
should receive compensation. The investigator thought £150 was fair compensation and 
having reviewed all the information on the file Im satisfied that this amount is fair, and I see 
no reason to increase it.
Loss of business and clients
I have seen the information E provided to our service following the investigators view. Mrs S 
has said this is evidence that E lost clients because of the block on the accounts. I would like 
to thank Mrs S for providing the extra information. I have looked at this carefully. I can see 
that the letter she has sent suggests loss of business because E only had limited access to a 
business account. The letter from Es client is dated 15 June 2022  at the time the account 
was fully operational. The evidence from the bank is that E had access to the account and 
the account was only blocked between 13 September 2022 and 27 September 2022. The 
rest of the time the account was operational even though there was no debit card so I cant 
agree that E lost business from that client because E had limited access to a business 
account.  In addition, looking at the bank statement for that period I can see that E was 
operating the account in a very similar way to the way it had done, before the debit card was 
withdrawn in May 2022. Because of this I dont see a reason to award E further 
compensation in particular for lost business in the sum of £9,254.00 as Mrs S has requested.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold this complaint. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay E £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
the bank closing its account and being given incorrect information about its debit card. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman