DRN-3722463
The complaint
Ms P complains Santander UK plc (Santander) incorrectly cancelled her mortgage direct 
debit which led to adverse information on her credit file, affecting her ability to obtain a 
mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Ms P says following a separation from her partner, Santander accepted an authority from 
him to cancel all but one direct debit, despite the bank account requiring both signatures, 
following  a dispute registered on the bank account. Ms P says initially Santander told her it 
hadnt made any errors but following her complaint it accepted it shouldnt have accepted 
her ex partners authority to cancel the direct debits. Ms P says Santander refused to directly 
contact the building society where the mortgage account was held, to explain the error and 
told her she must send a letter it had provided to her to the mortgage provider instead. 
Ms P says Santanders mistake has led to her mortgage offer with another provider to be 
withdrawn, and she was only now able to obtain a lower mortgage offer, over a shorter term 
and at a higher interest rate. Ms P feels Santanders service has been poor during this issue 
and its actions have had long term implications for her and doesnt feel its offer of £700, by 
way of compensation goes far enough. 
Santander have accepted it made a mistake when it informed Ms P initially that it hadnt 
made an error when it allowed her ex-partner to cancel the direct debits on their joint bank 
account. Santander says it provided Ms P with a letter accepting responsibility for the 
mortgage payment being cancelled, which would have allowed the mortgage provider to take 
steps to remove the adverse credit information from her credit file  which it now has. 
Santander says it offered Ms P £700 as compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Ms P wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator pointed out that Santander had accepted it had made an error when it cancelled 
the direct debit. The investigator felt Santander provided a letter to Ms P explaining the direct 
debit missed payment was its error, within a reasonable timeframe to allow the adverse 
credit entry to be removed.
The investigator says there was no evidence to show the sole reason why Ms Ps mortgage 
offer didnt proceed was due to Santanders error, as there could be other reasons that might 
lead to a mortgage offer not proceeding. The investigator felt Santanders offer of £700 was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms P to learn Santander had allowed her 
ex-partner to cancel a direct debit for their mortgage when it shouldnt. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if the amount of compensation Santander have offered to put things 
right goes far enough here. 
The first thing to say is there is no dispute that Santander were at fault when it accepted 
instructions from Ms Ps ex- partner to cancel various direct debits, including the mortgage 
payment to which this complaint refers. Santander have accepted it made a mistake and 
offered Ms P £700 by way of compensation and provided her with a letter accepting its error, 
for Ms P to provide to her mortgage provider.
Its worth saying although Ms P may not agree, when her ex-partner raised a dispute on the 
joint bank account in May 2020, Santander had acted correctly by restricting the bank 
account to two signatures, where it went wrong here is when it initially accepted the 
instructions from Ms Ps ex -partner to cancel various direct debits including the mortgage 
payment in June 2021. From the telephone call I have listened to in June 2021, Ms P 
complained to Santander about this and from the bank statement extracts I have seen, direct 
debits were reinstated in July 2021 with a mortgage payment being made from August 2021. 
What wasnt understood at that time by Santander nor Ms P, was her mortgage provider had 
placed a missed payment marker on her credit file at that time, this was only made known to 
Santander in November 2021 when Ms P complained about this.  
I do agree here Santanders initial response in early December 2021 that it had acted 
correctly when it cancelled the direct debits on Ms Ps ex partners sole instructions was 
wrong. That said, it did review that decision a week later and accepted it was at fault and 
provided a letter for Ms P to forward to her mortgage provider accepting responsibility, so it 
could remove any adverse entries on her credit file  which I understand has now happened. 
While Ms P says she only received this letter in late January 2022, it isnt clear why it took 
that long to arrive, and it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Santander responsible for any postal 
delays that may have occurred. 
One of the central points of Ms Ps complaint is that her new mortgage provider withdrew its 
original mortgage offer provided to her in November 2021, and when she re-applied in March 
2022, it was only prepared to offer her a lower amount as it had reduced the term now 
available to her, given the time that had passed and her age. 
The first thing to say is Ms Ps initial offer in November 2021 of approximately £50,000 over 
a 12-year term, was only an offer in principal, not a formal offer. The offer in principal here 
was without any agreed interest terms or with a specific property in mind, so its not possible 
for me to say if that offer would have still been available to her in any event some months 
later. While I can see Ms Ps mortgage provider referred to the adverse entry on her credit 
file as a reason for the mortgage offer not being available, it also makes reference to her 
financial association with her ex-partner as part of that decision. So, like the investigator, I 
cant agree this in principal agreement would have definitely  been available to Ms P when 
she wanted to submit a formal mortgage application. 
What is clear, is the mortgage in principal Ms P was offered in March 2022 was also based 
on a 12 year term, but for an amount of around £40,000, so the sum offered wasnt due to 
the time left available as Ms P thinks, but more likely down to affordability based on her circumstances at that time.
What I should say here, is Ms P wasnt in a position to have drawn down or be accepted for 
a formal mortgage until her existing matrimonial home mortgage commitments were 
finalised. From the joint account bank statement extracts provided to me, the existing 
matrimonial mortgage was still in place in February 2022, and conditions had changed over 
that time, potentially including the interest rates on offer and what Ms P could now afford. 
What I cant say with any certainty is that her in principal mortgage offer in November 2021, 
was withdrawn solely down to the one missed monthly mortgage payment in July 2021.
Thats not to say Santander havent made mistakes here, it has, and I can understand the 
frustration and upset Ms P suffered at what must have been a difficult time for her. That said 
its not my role to penalise businesses when mistakes are made but to ensure it apologises 
for that and provides a commensurate amount of redress. 
Here Santander have apologised for its mistake and provided a letter to Ms P in a 
reasonable space of time in order to correct her credit file, and offered her £700 by way of 
redress for that, and while Ms P may not agree I am satisfied that is a reasonable amount of 
compensation for its mistake. 
I will leave it with Ms P to contact Santander if she now wishes to accept its offer.
While Ms P will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Santander 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman