DRN-1534652
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited handled a claim made under 
his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In early 2019 Mr S noticed a fault with his mobile phone so made a claim under his policy. 
He paid the policy excess and sent his phone for repair. The engineers rectified the problem 
and sent the phone back to Mr S.
Later in the year Mr S again had problems with his phone so sent it back to the engineers as 
it was under warranty from the first repair. The engineers tested the phone but couldn't find 
a fault. Mr S was unhappy a fault couldn't be located especially as he provided 
video evidence of the problem. 
When Mr S received the phone back he said it had been damaged by the engineers. 
Assurant said there were some marks on the phone, but they were cosmetic, and there was 
no proof the damage was done by the engineers. 
Mr S sent the phone back again. The engineers tested the phone but were again unable to 
locate a fault. Assurant suggested that Mr S get an independent report on the phone to 
diagnose the problem. Mr S said he didn't want to do this as there was a cost, and he didn't 
think he should have to pay when the engineers should've fixed the problem.
When Mr S came to our service one of our investigators looked into what happened. She 
thought Assurant should pay Mr S £50 for the scratches on the phone. Whilst there was no 
evidence of where the damage occurred, she was persuaded that the damage more than 
likely occurred when the phone was with Assurant. She also thought it reasonable that 
Assurant pay for a diagnostic report on the phone if Mr S chose to get one in order to identify 
the fault, as long as a receipt for any cost was provided. Mr S agreed to this resolution, 
however Assurant didn't agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same opinion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
There are two issues here; the fault with the phone, and the scratches on the phone.
When thinking about the fault with phone I've looked closely at what both Assurant and Mr S 
have said. Assurant say the fault was fixed the first time when the phone was sent in for 
repair. But Mr S says the fault still exists, and he has video evidence to prove it.Assurant wouldn't accept the video evidence from Mr S about the fault as it didn't show the 
detail they required about the phone. Mr S clearly believes there is a fault and was happy to 
provide evidence for consideration. 
If Mr S wanted the fault considered further Assurant said he could provide a diagnostic 
report from the phone manufacturer. Mr S was unwilling to do this as he said it would cost 
money, and he didn't think he should have to pay for that. 
I don't think Assurant was as helpful as they could've been asking Mr S to provide 
information about the fault. Taking this, and every thing else that's happened into account, 
I'm satisfied it's reasonable for Assurant to refund Mrs S the cost of getting a diagnostic 
report on the phone. Mr S will need to produce a receipt for this from the phone 
manufacturer. 
When thinking about the damage to the phone there is little physical proof to show where the 
scratches happened. So I've based by decision on the balance of probabilities about what 
I think is most likely to have happened. 
Mr S reported the damage to Assurant as soon as he received the phone back from the 
engineers. Other than the scratches Mr S is complaining about, the phone appears to be in 
perfect condition and well looked after.
Assurant says there's no proof their engineers caused the damage. This is true. They also 
says the engineers only had the phone for a short period and that Mr S had it for a much 
longer time. This is also true. Assurant feel Mr S ultimately wants the phone replaced and 
may have tried to blame them for the damage in order for this to happen. But I've seen no 
evidence this is the case. Mr S has accepted the offer of £50 recommended by our 
investigator, so I'm not persuaded by this argument. 
Having considering the existing condition of the phone, and how quickly the problem was 
reported I'm persuaded, on balance, that the damage happened whilst Assurant had the 
phone. Because of this Assurant should pay Mr S £50 for repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above my decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
- pay Mr S £50 for the damage caused
- upon production of a receipt from the phone manufacturer pay Mr S the cost a diagnostic 
report on the phone
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman