DRN-2673531
The complaint
Ms E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined her mobile phone 
insurance claim and about its service. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Ms E had mobile phone insurance, insured by Assurant. She made a claim for a phone used 
by her and her sister. Assurant was told that Ms Es sister lost the phone on 10 June 2020, 
shed made a phone call, placed the phone in her pocket and later that day realised the 
phone was missing. 
Assurant declined the claim as it said misleading information had been provided to support 
the claim. Assurant said the phone providers records showed that the IMEI number of the  
phone claimed for was last used on 7 June 2020, three days before Ms E said the phone 
had last been used. The records also showed that on 7 June the SIM card was taken out the 
phone reported as lost and used in a different, uninsured phone until 10 June 2020.
Ms E complained to us. In summary she said Assurant had made errors in registering the 
correct phone on the policy, the proof of purchase showed the wrong IMEI number for her 
phone and the records Assurant relied on to decline the claim show wrong information. Ms E 
also said that when she spoke to Assurant it made her feel like a fraud and shes unhappy 
that Assurants letter said it declined the claim because she didnt tell the truth.
Our investigator said Assurant had reasonably declined the claim and it had given Ms E the 
reasons for the claims decline in an appropriate manner.
Ms E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said Assurant hasnt been able to 
get its records right from the start which shows it had fundamental problems with its records.
Before I made my decision I asked Assurant for some more information about the records. 
Ill refer to its response in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim and gave 
reasonable service, and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think there were problems with some of the records relating to Ms Es phone. When she 
first claimed for the lost phone Assurant said the relevant phone number was still showing as 
being connected to her old phone. So it asked Ms E to provide proof of purchase which she  
got from the phone provider.
The proof of purchase gave the phone IMEI number as ending in 116. Whereas the IMEI 
number on the box the phone came in ended in 114, Ms E says thats the correct number. 
The usage report for the phone showed usage from November 2019 to 7June 2020 for a 
phone with an IMEI number ending in 110. 
I understand that the discrepancies are frustrating for Ms E and her concerns that the 
records cant be relied on. So I asked Assurant about the discrepancies. 
Assurant doesnt know how the phone provider got the IMEI number ending in 116. But 
Assurant has provided me with enough information that Im now satisfied the usage report 
for the phone with an IMEI number ending in 110 is the same phone as the phone with an 
IMEI number ending in 114. 
Im satisfied that Assurant has evidence from the phone provider that the phone Ms E 
reported as being lost was last used on 7 June 2020. Ms E gave different information as part 
of her claim  that the phone was last used on 10 June , the same date as the loss. 
The phone providers reports also show that the relevant SIM card was used in a different, 
uninsured phone from 7 to 10 June 2020. Assurant has told us that the report from the  
phone provider automatically shows when a SIM card is put into a phone, its not a manual 
process, so that reduces the possibility of an error.
Im satisfied that Assurant can reasonably understand the usage reports from the phone 
provider are accurate. So Assurant can fairly believe that when she made a claim Ms E 
didnt give it correct information about when the lost phone was last used which puts into 
doubt the validity of the claim.
The policy terms say:
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or 
the fulfilment of your claim. 
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we may:
Reject the claim and we may cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid this will 
be returned.
On the information Assurant had from the phone provider it reasonably relied on the above 
policy term to decline the claim. Assurant also told Ms E it would cancel the policy.
Ive listened to the two relevant calls Ms E had with Assurant. I think Assurant explained the 
reasons for the claim decline in an appropriate manner. It also fairly explained to Ms E that if 
the phone provider told it the usage reports were wrong it would relook at the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman