DRN-4138932
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) relied on external accident 
records, rather than what he told them, when arranging his car insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy that he had to call Hastings to amend driving licence details before he could go 
ahead with the purchase.
What happened
Mr C attempted to take out an insurance policy online with Hastings. However, the driving 
licence details werent correctly being captured from the aggregator site he used, so Mr C 
had to contact Hastings to confirm these before purchasing the policy.
Mr C had also told Hastings about the named driver accident history, but when the policy 
was arranged, Hastings relied on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) records, 
which differed to what Mr C had declared.
A complaint was made to Hastings about their handling of the arrangement of Mr Cs car 
insurance policy. Hastings responded and said they dont control the aggregator site, but 
they went through the licence information when Mr C called them to make sure it was 
correct. They also said they had to rely on the CUE records, and if they were incorrect, the 
named driver would need to contact the third-party insurer that had recorded it to have it 
amended.
Mr C remained unhappy with Hastings and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
recognised it was inconvenient having to contact Hastings, but he said it didnt have any 
significant impact on Mr C being able to take out the insurance policy. He also said he didnt 
think Hastings had acted unfairly by relying on the information on CUE.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr C is unhappy that he needed to contact Hastings as the driving licence details werent 
being captured correctly from the aggregator site he used. Once Mr C contacted Hastings, 
he was able to confirm this so the policy could go ahead.
Hastings explained they arent in control of the third-party site Mr C was using. Whilst Mr C 
needed to call Hastings, it didnt stop him being able to go ahead with the policy he wanted 
to purchase. So, whilst I appreciate having to call would have been frustrating for Mr C, Im 
not going to direct Hastings to pay compensation for this.
Mr C is also unhappy that Hastings relied on CUE records for the named driver accident 
history when he told them different information about previous claims.
However, I dont think Hastings acted unreasonably here. All insurers that subscribe to using 
CUE are obligated to ensure the information they record on it is accurate. So, it isnt 
unreasonable for Hastings to take this information, recorded by another insurer, as being 
correct. Hastings also included the information they had relied on in the policy documents 
sent to Mr C, so he was made aware what they had recorded.
If the information differed to what was recorded on CUE as Mr C has said, then as outlined 
by Hastings, the named driver would need to contact the insurer responsible for recording 
this information to have this amended and updated. But that wasnt Hastings here. Instead, 
they relied on the information another insurer had input, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to do so.
However, if the named driver has since had this information amended, and it is now different 
to what has been included by Hastings, then Mr C will need to get in contact with Hastings 
so they can update the policy and assess any impact on it such as terms or premiums.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman