DRN-3252853
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aspen Insurance UK Limited failed to pay part or all of his freeholder 
home insurance claims for three flood events and two thefts.
What happened
Mr H owned his property on a shared ownership basis jointly with a housing trust (B) owning 
the freehold with a long lease being granted to Mr H. The insurance was in the name of the 
housing trust and Mr H. It covered the buildings only. Mr H didnt have contents insurance.
In June 2016 Mr H reported a flood claim to Aspen. The property had had a history of being 
flooded due to run off from an adjoining golf course. Mr H had already commenced strip out 
work before Aspens loss adjusters could visit. Aspen agreed the claim and to pay the cost of 
drying and strip out works together with the cost of repairs. Mr H asked for £12,565. Aspen 
asked him for estimates and/or invoices but these werent supplied. It assessed the value of 
the claim at £10,000, together with a payment for two weeks alternative accommodation 
(AA). Mr H signed a form accepting this in full and final settlement. Much later, when making 
a second claim for flooding in 2018, Mr H indicated that he was unhappy with the settlement 
and that he was entitled to 9 months AA.
Mr H made a second claim for flooding in May 2018. By this time he was sub-letting the 
property to a tenant and was in the process of returning the keys to his mortgagees. Aspen 
appointed loss adjusters again, who assessed that Mr H hadnt carried out the reinstatement 
of the property after the 2016 claim. They noted that Mr H had carried out structural 
alterations to the property. This was without Bs authority and Mr H was on notice from B to 
reinstate. Aspen felt the work required would negate any claim for flood damage. Mr H also 
supplied his estimates for work which it said bore no relation to any damage. In respect of 
alternative accommodation it noted that Mr H hadnt been living at the property since April 
2017, so wasnt entitled to claim for this. Bearing those factors in mind, Aspen declined the 
claim
In June 2019 Mr H made a claim for theft. Aspen arranged a visit to the property. It agreed to 
pay the cost of some vinyl flooring, a rear door, hire of a skip and some boarding. It made a 
payment of £2,750.
Mr H made a third claim for flooding in June 2019. After Aspen had made several attempts 
to visit the property, Mr H withdrew the claim.
In July 2019 Mr H made a further claim for theft. He said the thieves had caused damage 
and stolen a number of items which included the kitchen units, the roll top bath, and the 
pipework. Aspen appointed loss adjusters to investigate. Following this it wasnt satisfied the 
items claimed for had been damaged. It found the bath was still there, and the units hadnt 
been replaced since the 2016 claim. It further noted the door hadnt been repaired following 
the settlement made on the previous theft claim, so the house wasnt secure. Aspen 
declined this claim.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Aspen had acted reasonably.
Mr H disagreed, pointing out that he was a surveyor with over fifteen years of experience in 
real estate. He said the loss adjuster had deliberately underestimated his claims and 
assured him he didnt need to provide receipts or estimates. He raised a further issue, 
namely that Aspen had failed to tell B, in accordance with the terms of his lease, that the rent 
should be suspended as the house was uninhabitable. He said he had recently won a 
County Court action against B when it tried to recover arrears of rent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mr H, Im unable to uphold his complaint. Im 
aware that this has affected Mr Hs mental and physical health. But Ill explain why Im not 
upholding. I shall deal with each claim in turn.
2016 flood
For this claim Mr H accepted a settlement of £10,000 for the repairs. He had asked for 
£12,565 and was asked for supporting evidence by way of written estimates. Mr H didnt 
supply these so Aspen went ahead and assessed the repairs necessary. It took into account 
that some of the costs asked for, in respect of the larder, kitchen unit and window constituted 
betterment. Mr H says he was told Aspen didnt need estimates etc. It may be the case that 
Aspen decided to go ahead without estimates, but in that case Mr H had to accept Aspens 
assessment, or provide evidence that the repairs cost more.
When parties sign a full and final settlement, we will if appropriate consider whether there 
was a fair settlement. Bearing in mind Mr Hs experience as a surveyor he would have been 
in a position to decide whether the settlement offered to him was fair. He signed the 
settlement acceptance without any qualms and I think in those circumstances he was 
provided with a fair settlement. If the work done had turned out unexpectedly to cost more 
than he accepted, I wouldve expected him to contact Aspen. It then would have been able 
to assess whether it needed to increase the settlement. However Ive seen no evidence that 
he complained about the amount of the settlement until he mentioned it in an email in June 
2018 when making the second claim. 
Mr H didnt make any further claim for AA, which again bearing in mind his knowledge and 
experience as a surveyor, I would have expected him to know he would have had to do this. 
As far as I can see he didnt actually pay for any further AA, but if he had, or incurred 
expense due to having no cooking facilities, I dont think its possible to reasonably 
determine such was likely due under the claim. As Ill set out below, when he made the 2018 
claim, Aspen found that the reinstatement work following the first claim hadnt been done, 
but Mr H had carried out some unauthorised structural alterations to the house. Bearing in 
mind that Mr H has told us he cant produce any receipts or documents showing the work 
has been done, its not possible to say whether any work Mr H carried out was reinstatement 
work following the flood. A claim for AA would only be payable due to the house being 
uninhabitable because of the insurance claim. And the house has I understand now been 
sold so its no longer possible to visit it.
Mr H has raised the fact that he was pursued by B for arrears of rent. His contention is that 
the terms of the lease required B to suspend the rent whilst the house was uninhabitable and 
he blames Aspen for not advising it. I cant see that this has been put to Aspen. But firstly in 
my view this wasnt Aspens responsibility. Secondly it paid a cash settlement so would have 
had no knowledge about if or when the property was uninhabitable. Also B knew about the claim, and it would have been up to Mr H to inform it about any repairs he planned to 
undertake.
2018 flood 
Mr H made a claim in respect of further flooding which occurred in May 2018. At this stage 
he had moved out of the property himself, and had sub-let it to a tenant. He claimed around 
£42,000 for repairs and alternative accommodation. But he also made it clear at this time 
that he was in negotiations with his mortgagees to give up possession of the property, so 
wouldnt be carrying out repairs.
In respect of AA he wasnt living at the property so Aspen was right to say that Mr H wasnt 
entitled to any AA as a result of this claim. As for the damage, the loss adjusters assessed 
that Mr H hadnt carried out the reinstatement of the property following the 2016 claim. They 
also noted that Mr H had carried out unauthorised (under his lease) structural alterations to 
the property which he had been required by B to reinstate. It was also noted that Mr H 
claimed for a 16 unit integrated kitchen, when hed only had a 2 unit one before. M H also 
said thered been a flood in 2017 which he hadnt claimed for. Ive not seen anything from 
Mr H that makes me think Aspen was wrong in these findings.
Aspen concluded that it wasnt possible to say that the flood had caused damage to items 
which hadnt been damaged as result of the previous claim. It further said that the cost of 
putting back the structural alterations would negate that of repairing any flood damage, and 
that Mr Hs estimate bore no relation to any actual damage. It said that it wouldnt be paying 
his claim.
I think that was reasonable. Ive noted in particular that Mr H had no intention of carrying out 
the repairs, as he was giving up possession, so he hasnt shown that he had a loss. Ive 
noted that hes sent us no evidence of having expended on any money on repairs following 
the flood. Nor did he send any such evidence at the time to Aspen. Its always up to the 
policyholder in respect of an insurance claim to show they have a claim. And as a former 
surveyor Mr H will be aware of the importance of verifying any loss or costs.
I have noted the evidence Mr H sent in following our investigators view. However I dont 
know when the photos were taken and whilst they undoubtedly show damage to the house 
at some stage they dont help me with regard to evidencing what reinstatement was done or 
is needed, or what the cost of that was/would be. I understand that Mr H was given grants 
for furniture, appliances etc but as this policy only covers buildings and not contents, Im 
afraid that evidence of those are not relevant. And again, a list of possible witnesses doesnt 
help with regard to the essential points of the claims.
theft June 2019
By June 2019 the property was unoccupied. Mr H made a claim for theft following the 
property being broken into. Aspen assessed the claim and agreed to pay for the back door, 
some vinyl flooring, skip hire and boarding up. It paid £2,750. In the absence of any 
evidence that any other part of the building was damaged, I think this payment was 
reasonable.
2019 flood
Mr H claimed a third time for flood damage in 2019. Aspens loss adjusters attempted 
several times to arrange an appointment with Mr H to visit the property but he didnt 
co-operate. He then withdrew the claim. I think it was reasonable for Aspen to expect Mr H 
to be present for any loss adjusters visit, bearing in mind he had made previous claims. If Mr H chose to withdraw the claim that was a matter for him, but I dont propose to ask Aspen 
to do anything further about this claim.
theft July 2019
Mr H made a further claim for theft in July 2019. His claim was for a total of £11,000. He 
claimed for damage to/removal of pipework in the bathroom, theft of the bath itself and 
kitchen units, damage to the work surface in the kitchen and to the electrics.
Aspen appointed loss adjusters again to carry out an investigation. The electricity supply had 
been cut off but it could see no damage to the system itself. The bath was found undamaged 
in the bedroom, and Aspen couldnt see evidence that the bathroom pipework had been 
damaged. In respect of the kitchen units whilst Mr H insisted they had been replaced 
following the 2016 claim, he wasnt able to produce any evidence of this by way of 
receipts/proof of purchase. Aspen noted also that the door hadnt been repaired from before 
so the property was unsecured. It asked Mr H for evidence including his authority to obtain 
the police report. The police said it hadnt been reported to them until after the loss adjusters 
visit. Due to its concerns about the validity of the claim and Mr Hs failure to co-operate, 
Aspen declined the claim.
Bearing in mind what Ive said about it being the policyholders responsibility to show they 
have a claim I think Aspens decision in respect of this claim was reasonable. 
overall
I think Aspen dealt with Mr Hs claims reasonably. I dont seek to minimise the difficulties 
caused to Mr H due to his property suffering repeated flooding. But from the insurance point 
of view I think Mr H has received a fair settlement for the claims Aspen accepted and that it 
made fair decisions concerning the other claims.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman