DRN-3205759
The complaint
G, a firm of brokers, complains on behalf of Mr W that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay his
full home insurance claim for damage to an underground pipe.
  
What happened
In August 2020, due to work carried out in neighbouring fields, an underground pipe on
Mr Ws property was damaged. This was a pipe running under Mr Ws land that led from a
septic tank and treatment plant carrying the treated sewage to a soakaway. Mr W had the
work done for a total cost of £15,822.89. He made a claim to Aviva in September and sought
to recover the cost of this.
The sewage from Mr Ws property and from six other properties ran into the septic tank on
Mr Ws property. Mr W said this was an informal arrangement and that there were no
documents to show who had the responsibility for the system. As the tank, treatment plant
pipe and soakaway were all on his land he considered that he was responsible.
Aviva didnt believe that Mr Ws policy covered him for costs that his neighbours should be
sharing. It pointed out that seven properties shared the tank, they were each responsible for
their share of the costs. A tank that serves seven properties would be built to higher
specifications than one used by just one property, so the cost of repairing it would be
proportionately higher. It assessed the cost of repair and said it was reasonable, but it only
paid £4,774.30 (net of the policy excess of £500) This was on the basis that it insured two
properties out of the seven (I believe Mr W owns two of the properties). It was also an
overpayment as it was calculated on there being six rather than seven properties.
Nevertheless Aviva paid out on its original offer.
When the matter was referred to this service Aviva pointed out that Mr W should have
declared the responsibility for the septic tank, and had it known its likely it would have
affected the premiums.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Aviva should pay the balance of Mr Ws claim, 
with interest, and that if Aviva had wanted the neighbours to contribute it should pay the 
claim and seek contributions from them
In response Aviva said:
1. If Mr W received monies from the other 5 properties for emptying of the septic tank etc 
then by definition they knew there was a cost for using the septic tank. Unless the informal 
arrangement with Mr W specified it, then it would assume they should be responsible for 
repair and replacement.
2. The terms of the informal agreement between Mr W and the other 5 property owners has 
not been investigated. Any monies received would it suspects be considered a taxable 
revenue by HMRC.
3. Mr W should have declared the informal arrangement to Aviva.
G said it had no further information or final points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
Mr Ws policy is a high net worth policy. Its essentially an all risks policy that covers any
damage to buildings or contents unless excluded by another term in the policy. The definition
of Buildings includes:
..cables and underground pipes providing services to or from the buildings, cess pits, septic
tanks and drain inspection covers.
The claim was accepted and I think its clear that the damage to Mr Ws pipe was covered
under the policy. This leaves the question of whether Aviva is entitled to limit its liability on
the basis that the neighbouring properties have an equal share of liability for the damage. All
the work carried out to the pipe took place on land belonging to Mr W. And no evidence has
been shown to me that the neighbours had any liability for the parts of the sewage system
that werent on their respective premises. They didnt take part in the claim and as far as Im
aware havent sought to make a claim on their own insurance.
As a high net worth policy giving a high degree of cover I think the policy covers all the work
to the underground pipe on Mr Ws land. If Aviva had wanted the neighbours to contribute it
should pay the claim and seek contributions from them. I dont see that it was Mr Ws
responsibility to do this.
Turning to Avivas argument that the repair cost more because the pipe would have been
constructed to a higher specification because seven properties used it, I dont think thats
relevant. The terms of the policy cover Mr Ws property and the underground pipes serving
it.
Aviva raised an argument with us that Mr W should have declared the ownership of the
septic tank and the fact that neighbours shared it when he took out the policy and the
premiums would have been affected. We say that a business cant raise new arguments with
us once it has made its final decision, and I see no mention of that in its final decision letter.
Quite apart from that, Aviva has paid out on the claim so accepted liability. And theres no
indication that Mr W was asked relevant questions about this when taking out the policy.
So I think that Aviva should pay the balance of Mr Ws claim, with interest.
In respect of Avivas comments, I note its point that the informal arrangement between Mr W 
and his neighbours hasnt been investigated. With respect thats something Aviva should 
have done. Im not sure what relevance its comments have regarding HMRC to this claim. 
As I pointed out in my provisional findings, I dealt with the question of whether Mr W should 
have declared the arrangement to Aviva and Ive nothing further to add to that.
As I dont think that Avivas comments have any bearing on my provisional findings, those 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision. 
Putting things rightI require Aviva to pay to Mr W £10,548,59 in settlement of the balance of his claim. It should 
add simple interest at 8% per year from the date Mr W paid this cost until it reimburses him.
Aviva Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mr W request it, it should provide him with a certificate showing how
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set under 
Putting things right above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman