DRN-3723366
The complaint
Mr F complains that Steadypay Limited (Steadypay) were irresponsible in approving a 
running-account credit agreement that he couldnt afford. He is also unhappy about the 
adverse information Steadypay reported to his credit file. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr F applied for a running-account credit with Steadypay. This account 
operated in a way that allowed Mr F to receive advances/top-ups, which would be credited 
directly to his current account, one business day after the day on which he would receive an 
income which fell below his average pay rate in any relevant period. The account had a 
subscription fee of £4 a week, which was payable whether or not Mr F receive a top-up. In 
August 2020 Mr F had received a top-up of £249. And his repayment schedule consisted of 
three payments: £85 due on 28th Sep 2020, £85 due on 28th Oct 2020, and £79 due on 
28th Nov 2020.
Mr F said that at the time of being approved for the lending, he felt that Steadypay didnt 
carry our appropriate checks to see if he was able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
He said Steadypay shouldve never given him the lending as his credit file was poor at the 
time. He said that he had more than one County Court Judgment (CCJ), which would have 
appeared on the checks Steadypay did which, he said, shouldve led them to ask further 
questions about his circumstances or verify some of the information. He also said that the 
defaults and missed payments on his credit file shouldve been enough for them not to 
approve him for the credit. 
Mr F said that he also had to chase Steadypay for them to amend his credit file to show a 
zero balance instead of £30 by sending them over 20 emails. He would also like the default 
marker removed from his credit file, as he said that Steadypay previously agreed to do so. 
He thinks that they should also refund him interest and charges plus pay him compensation 
for reporting the wrong information to his credit file, as this stopped him from being able to 
apply for credit and he had to delay his mortgage application. 
In October 2021, Steadypay wrote to Mr F and said that when Mr F applied for the credit, 
they performed a credit check and an affordability assessment and they said a that at the 
time his lending was within acceptable limits, given his income. They said that Mr F had no 
active CCJs/IVAs registered against him and an above-average credit score. They said that 
the top-up he received was based on the difference between his wage and his average 
wage, and they said he had the option to decline any and all top-ups. They also said hed 
confirmed the repayments were affordable at the time. 
In this correspondence they also addressed the issue around the default marker being 
placed on his credit file. They said that, when Mr F missed his repayments, they informed 
him of all steps that would be taken during their collection process. They said that the 
account defaulted in November 2020, so its impossible for this not to show on his credit file 
as he only settled the full balance in April 2021. They said this was five months later and, 
even though there was a repayment plan in place, Mr F missed multiple payments during 
this time.  
Steadypay have also told our service that, at the time of the complaint they checked with one 
credit reference agency, and this was correctly showing that the default was satisfied. So, 
they said that, as they send the same instructions to all credit reference agencies, they were 
disappointed to see this was not processed by one of them. But they said that since then, 
they have made sure that all the credit reference agencies are correctly reporting Mr Fs 
credit as satisfied with the correct date. 
Mr F was unhappy with Steadypay, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld as she didnt think that 
Steadypay treated Mr F unfairly. She thought that Steadypay conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks when considering if credit should be granted to him. She also thought 
that they reported correctly to Mr Fs credit file. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events and points raised in this 
complaint. But I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I 
dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider two main questions in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The first question is:
1. Did Steadypay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mr F would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did Steadypay make 
a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what they 
knew about Mr Fs circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such 
checks have shown that Mr F would be able to sustainably repay the 
borrowing?
The second question is:
2. Did Steadypay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?And, if I think Mr F has been disadvantaged by anything Steadypay did wrong, then I will 
consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did Steadypay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr 
F would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Steadypay were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr Fs 
ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These, sometimes called affordability 
checks, need to be borrower-focussed (considering Mr Fs specific circumstances) and, in 
addition to the creditworthiness assessment, they needed to determine whether Mr F could 
afford to repay any borrowing made in a sustainable manner. So, Steadypay needed to 
consider the impact of any credit payments on Mr F, and not just the likelihood of getting 
their money back.
There is no set list of checks Steadypay needed to complete. But the checks should have 
been proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on several factors such as, but not limited to, the:
- Amount of credit;
- Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
- Frequency of the repayments;
- Amounts of repayments;
- Total amount payable;
- Total charge for credit; and
- Consumers individual circumstances, including their lending history.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to be.
Mr F doesnt think the lending shouldve been given to him as he says his credit file was poor 
at the time of lending being approved. He said that he had more than one CCJ which would 
have appeared on the checks Steadypay did, which he said shouldve led them to ask 
further questions about his circumstances or verify some of the information. He also said that 
the defaults and missed payments on his credit file shouldve been enough for them not to 
approve him for credit. So, Ive looked at whether reasonable and proportionate checks were 
carried out by Steadypay.
Steadypay said that they performed a credit check and an affordability assessment. They 
said that this information didnt raise any flags  they said Mr Fs lending was within 
acceptable limits given his income, which they said they had visibility over through payslips 
and due to the open banking, which Mr F agreed to when the running credit account was 
created. They said Mr Fs employer was identified as a reputable institution in the financial 
sector, which increased trust in the application. They explained that, despite his wage gap 
and average pay being around £911, Mr F only received one top-up of £249 instead of the 
full sum as they said that their system determined that only £249 was a sustainable amount 
for him to repay at the time. So, Ive taken all of this into consideration.
I can see that the checks carried out by Steadypay showed that Mr F had regular earnings, 
which wouldve been a factor in their decision to lend. Steadypay said that, using open 
banking, their system did not pick up on any recent risky transactions such as payment 
reversals, gambling, high loans, or debt collections. They said that due to the limitations of 
their third-party open banking provider, they no longer have access to all the transactions 
pre-application, but they provided some of the documents they still have. From what they 
have provided, I can see that their system showed that Mr F had no active judgments, zero active and satisfied judgments within the last two years prior to the lending in question being 
granted, and no other impaired credit. Looking at the amount of borrowing in relation to Mr 
Fs income, I think the checks carried out by Steadypay were reasonable and proportionate. 
I dont think there was anything in the information they obtained which mightve given them 
reason to think that Mr F was in financial difficulties, or that he would find the lending 
unaffordable. I think the decision to lend was fair. 
Did Steadypay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider whether Steadypay acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. 
Mr F thinks Steadypay should remove the default marker from his credit file. He also thinks 
that they should refund interest and charges plus pay him compensation for reporting the 
wrong information to his credit file. 
Ive reviewed Mr Fs account and I can see that it had fallen into arrears. I can see that 
Steadypay adhered to their obligation of informing Mr F that his account is in arrears by 
sending him notices. From Mr Fs agreement and from the notices sent by Steadypay, I see 
that they explained what would happen if payments were missed. So, Im unable to say that 
Steadypay did anything wrong by defaulting the account considering Mr F didnt take any 
action to remedy the situation. I also see that Steadypay agreed different payment 
arrangements with Mr F, but these were subsequently broken. And I can see that 
Steadypay, as a goodwill gesture, waived at least £72 of monthly subscriptions from the total 
balance owing. So, I think Steadypay were sympathetic to his situation, and they did try to 
work with Mr F. As payments and repayment arrangements were not adhered to, I think it 
wasnt unreasonable for Steadypay to report the default to credit reference agencies. 
Especially as they have a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference 
agencies. And they acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Fs credit agreement. 
I know that Mr F is also unhappy as he said that he had to send Steadypay over 20 emails 
before they finally amended his credit file to show a zero balance instead of £30. He said this 
stopped him from being able to apply for credit and he had to delay his mortgage application. 
So, Ive considered this, but I understand that Steadypay reported the same information 
about the account closure with £0 remaining balance, once paid, to all three credit reference 
agencies. And it was only one of the agencies that didnt update their record. Therefore, 
based on the information available to me it, most likely, wasnt an error caused by 
Steadypay. So, I cant hold them responsible for this. But even if it was an error caused by 
Steadypay  which Im not saying that it was  I still have not seen enough evidence for me 
to conclude that it was this reported information on the credit file that was most likely the 
reason for Mr F directly incurring a loss. There were other adverse markers on his credit file 
that were also likely to have impacted him. So, overall, I wouldnt be able to say that most 
likely its Steadypay action that directly caused him a financial detriment, even if it was an 
error that was caused by them. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Steadypay acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr F in some other way. So, overall, I sympathise with Mr F for the difficulties that 
he is experiencing. But taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont 
think Mr F has been treated unfairly by Steadypay.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman