DRN-3853300
The complaint
Mrs K says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs K applied for a credit card in April 2020. It was approved with a limit of £1,200 and
she was given two subsequent credit limit increases by NewDay. The first increase in August 
2020 was to £2,450 and the second in January 2021 was to £2,550. 
Mrs K says she was struggling financially and her limit was increased despite missed 
payments and her card being maxed out. She has contacted NewDay to ask for payment 
holidays and the financial stress, combined with her job during the pandemic, has severely 
impacted her mental health. She asks for the debt to be written-off, interest and charges to 
be refunded and her credit file updated accordingly.
When Mrs K complained to NewDay it accepted it should not have given the second credit 
limit increase and so refunded all related interest and charges to Mrs Ks account to reduce 
her balance by £124.96. Unhappy with this resolution Mrs K brought her complaint o this 
service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Ks complaint. He thought it made fair lending decisions, 
based on the proportionate checks it carried out, when it gave Mrs K the account and the 
first limit increase. But he agreed the second increase should not have been given and so he 
said NewDays complaint response and refund was fair and reasonable.
Mrs K disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, 
she said she already had too much debt and this card should never have been given to her 
in the first place. She had taken out three loans in the months before applying.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facilities it was giving to Mrs K were affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Mrs K, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mrs Ks card application and each limit increase; if so, did it make fair
lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would
most likely have shown. I also need to think about, bearing in mind the circumstances at the
time of each additional advance in credit, whether there was a point at which NewDay ought
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ks indebtedness in a way that was
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
The card application and initial limit of £1,200
When Mrs K applied for the credit card NewDay asked about her employment and
residential status and for details of her gross annual income. It carried out a credit check to
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. NewDay has shared the
results of these checks.
They show that Mrs K declared an annual income of £26,000 and that she had £11,500 of
unsecured debt. She had no defaulted accounts, no adverse public records, no payday
loans and no accounts in arrears. Given the amount of credit it was offering and Mrs Ks 
credit history I dont think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have carried out a 
fuller financial review. I think, at this stage, it was reasonable for NewDay to conclude the 
card and its repayments would be sustainably affordable for Mrs K.
It follows I dont think NewDay was wrong to give Mrs K the card.
The first credit limit increase in August 2020
NewDay offered Mrs K a credit limit increase of £1,250 to £2,450 in August 2020. I think this
was a significant increase and NewDay needed to be sure Mrs K could sustainably repay a
balance of £2,450 within a reasonable period of time. NewDays submission suggests that its
decision to increase the credit limit on Mrs Ks account was largely based on reviewing her
spending and payment behaviour on both its card, and external credit. I have some concerns
with this approach as its not clear to me why a borrower who is ab e to successfully manage
a given credit limit can then automatically be deemed, without enough further checks at the 
time of the decision, to be able to successfully manage a higher limit. And Mrs Ks account 
had only been open for three months. So I have looked at the results of these checks to 
decide whether they were sufficient, or whether they should have led NewDay to complete a 
fuller financial review.
The checks show there was still no adverse data on Mrs Ks credit file and her external 
borrowing had not increased notably. She had remained within her limit on the Aqua card, 
incurring no fees and making no cash withdrawals. She had paid on time each month, and in 
excess of the minimum contractual requirement. As it was only three months since Mrs K 
opened the account I think it was reasonable it didnt recheck her income and employment 
status. On balance I think it was fair for NewDay to conclude Mrs K would most likely be able 
to sustainably repay the increased limit. To be clear, I am not doubting Mrs Ks testimony 
that she was under financial pressure, rather that given the borrowing involved it would not 
have been proportionate to carry out the level of checks needed to know this.
It follows I dont think NewDay was wrong to give Mrs K the increased limit.
There is no dispute between the parties that it was wrong to give Mrs K the further increase 
in January 2021 so I wont comment in detail on this, other than to say I agree it was wrong 
given Mrs K had just needed a three-month payment holiday, and NewDay could see her 
external debt had steadily increased month-on-month since August 2020. NewDay has 
already credited the interest and charges refund to Mrs Ks account, but I would remind it 
that in line with our usual approach it must also, if relevant:
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement (this can be as a credit to her 
account)*Remove any adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies that 
relates to the second limit increase. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
It is not clear from the business submission if these last two actions happened, if needed.
I am sorry Mrs K went on to struggle financially and that this impacted her mental health. I 
have considered whether NewDay acted fairly towards Mrs K once it became aware of her 
situation. I think it did. It accepted her request for a payment holiday twice, and signposted 
organisations that could provide free debt management advice. Assuming there remains an 
outstanding balance the parties should now try to agree an affordable payment plan. I would 
remind NewDay of its ongoing obligation to treat Mrs K fairly, and with forbearance.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman