DRN-2746743
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) cancelled her life 
assurance policy and couldnt reinstate it.
What happened
Ms N took out a level term assurance policy with Halifax in March 2010, which was due to 
run for 17 years.
In June 2016, Halifax cancelled Ms Ns policy as shed not paid the premiums for two 
consecutive months.
In December 2016 Ms N asked Halifax to reinstate her policy but they said it wasnt possible. 
Halifax also said they couldnt set a new policy up as theyd since stopped selling protection 
insurance.
Ms N complained to Halifax but they said theyd written to her advising the policy had been 
cancelled. They said the letter had given Ms N 30 days to reinstate the policy if she wished 
but as theyd not heard from her within that period that option was no longer available.
Ms N didnt agree with Halifaxs response, so she asked us to investigate her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ns complaint should be upheld as Halifax had notified Ms N 
of the policy cancellation. He was also satisfied Halifax had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Ms N responded saying shed never received the cancellation notification and believes it 
may have been sent to the wrong address. Our investigator confirmed hed seen evidence 
the letter was sent to Ms Ns correct address, so his opinion remained the same.
Ms N disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Ms Ns policy say, In any event, your plan will end automatically 
from that date if you fail to pay two monthly premiums in a row.
Ive seen Ms N failed to pay premiums in both May and June 2016 so Im satisfied Halifax 
cancelled her policy in line with the terms and conditions and I think they acted fairly when 
doing so.
I can see Halifax sent Ms N a letter at the time explaining her policy had been cancelled. The 
letter also gave Ms N the option to reinstate her cover if done so within 30 days. 
Ms N did contact Halifax and asked for the policy to be reinstated in December 2016, but as 
this was outside of the timeframe allowed, I cant say Halifax needed to agree to her request.
Im aware Ms N has said she didnt receive the letter. But I can see that it was sent by 
Halifax to the right address. Our service would normally expect that most post is properly 
delivered, but I cant hold Halifax responsible if on this occasion it wasnt.
I acknowledge Ms N has concerns Halifax stopped selling protection insurance in 2010 but 
she continued to pay for her policy for several years after that. But Halifaxs decision didnt 
impact existing policies, Ms N was covered throughout the duration she had her policy and, 
had her monthly premiums have been maintained, it wouldve continued to provide her cover 
for the full original 17-year term.  
I can see Halifax signposted options for Ms N to obtain alternative cover in the cancellation 
letter it sent. Halifax have also said they referred her to another provider when she called 
them in December 2016. Halifax were unable to reinstate her policy or provide her with a 
new one, so I think they acted fairly by looking to provide her with alternative options.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied Halifax have acted fairly and reasonably, 
and I dont think they need to do anything in resolution to the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman