DRN-4020100
The complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly increased his 
premium for his commercial multi-car insurance policy mid-term and that its failure to recover 
one of his cars following a claim led to it being stolen.
What happened
Mr R had a multi-car commercial car insurance policy with Admiral, which he renewed in 
June 2022. 
In August 2022, Admirals validation team found two claims on another multi-car insurance 
policy Mr R had held with Admiral, which he hadnt disclosed at renewal. So Admiral wrote to 
Mr R saying his premium would be increased by £895.52 (which included a £30 
administration charge)(it also gave Mr R the choice of cancelling his policy). Mr R paid the 
increased premium. Admiral subsequently refunded Mr R its £30 administration charge.
Separately, later in 2022, Mr B made a claim on his policy when the wheels were stolen from 
one of his insured cars. But the whole car was then stolen before Admirals salvage agent 
collected it.
Mr R complained to Admiral both about the premium increase and the theft of his car. 
Admiral said it had followed its correct process in relation to both issues, although it paid    
Mr R £50 as a gesture of goodwill for its delay in responding to his complaint. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr R complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Rs 
complaint said he didnt think it was fair of Admiral to charge Mr R an increased premium 
mid-way through his policy term, since it shouldve been aware of the claims on the other 
Admiral policy. He said Admiral should refund Mr R the premium increase. But our 
investigator didnt think Admirals delay in collecting Mr Rs car after the wheels had been 
stolen led to the whole car itself being stolen.
Admiral doesnt agree it should refund Mr R the premium increase. Mr R said hed accept 
our investigators findings about the theft of the car but only if Admiral agreed to refund the 
premium increase.
So Mr Rs complaint has now come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold one part of Mr Rs complaint but not the other part.
Looking first at the issue of the premium increase, the undisclosed claims Admirals 
validations team found were on another car insurance policy Mr R had with Admiral. As 
such, I think Admiral shouldve been aware of them. In these circumstances, I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable of Admiral to increase Mr Rs premium mid-term. So Admiral should 
refund Mr R his increased policy premium of £865 (plus interest).
Turning next to the issue of the theft of Mr Rs car, there was a delay by Admiral in collecting 
Mr Rs car, from which the wheels had been stolen, for salvage. This was because Admiral 
gave its salvage agent the wrong contact phone number for Mr R. Admiral says that, after 
the correct phone number was given, its agent tried unsuccessfully a few times over a 
number of days to contact Mr R. Mr R says he has no recollection of any phone calls from 
the salvage agent. He says that, if the car had been collected by Admiral sooner, it wouldnt 
have been stolen.
Admiral made a mistake in giving its agent the wrong contact number for Mr R. What I have 
to think about is whether Admirals mistake  and the delay it caused in getting Mr Rs car 
collected  made it reasonably foreseeable the car would be stolen. I dont think this is 
something Admiral could reasonably have foreseen. So Im not upholding this part of Mr Rs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to reimburse him the increased policy premium it charged him of £865.52. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay interest on this sum at the rate of 8% a year 
simple from the date Mr R paid the premium increase to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman