DRN-4059139
The complaint
Ms A is a sole trader. She complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly in relation to 
her Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) by mislaying and denying receipt of a 
letter asking for help with repayments. She says this led to the CBIL going into arrears and 
prevented her from being able to set up a repayment holiday or other arrangement to pay. 
Ms A has a representative in making this complaint. For ease of reading, I will refer to any 
comments from her representative as being from Ms A. 
What happened
In March 2021, Ms A took out a £68,000 CBIL in order to repay her existing Bounce Back 
Loan and provide additional working capital for her business. No repayments were due for 
the first twelve months. 
Ms A told us:
On 16 March 2022, she sent Barclays a letter by recorded delivery. The letter said 
her business had taken longer than expected to recover and it might be a further 
twelve months before she could afford to start repayments. She asked for the banks 
help with this. 
Barclays kept saying they hadnt received the letter (even though she had proof of 
receipt). She had, however, spoken to one person at the bank who confirmed it had 
been received and then mislaid. 
It wasnt until the end of April that Barclays admitted they had the letter. By then, the 
CBIL was in arrears and they said shed need to bring it up to date before she could 
have any kind of repayment plan. 
Barclays said:
They didnt receive the letter until 26 April, by which time Ms As CBIL was in arrears. 
They contacted Ms A on 26 April. She then made a complaint about the lack of 
response to her letter. They sent her a budget planner to complete and informed her 
that the only option for altering repayments was a term extension. 
On 27 May 2022, Ms A phoned and spoke to their Business Support department. 
They explained that she would need to make up the arrears on the CBIL before a 
term extension could be agreed. 
Ms A complained several times to Barclays. She said the arrears only existed because 
Barclays hadnt responded to her letter of 16 March, which she had sent in good time before 
repayments became due. She wanted Barclays to put the loan back to how it was before the 
arrears and put in place a repayment holiday. 
Barclays accepted that their customer service had been poor and paid Ms A compensation 
of first £50 and then a further £75 for this. But they didnt think the loan arrears were their 
fault. They maintained the position that they werent prepared to agree any form of 
repayment plan or extension until the arrears were cleared.  
Ms A remained dissatisfied so she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but he didnt consider Barclays 
needed to take any further action. He didnt think Ms A could reasonably have assumed that 
a repayment plan was in place from March, nor did he think he could say the bank should 
have put one in place. 
Ms A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. She made the 
following points, in summary:
The main complaint was that Barclays had denied receipt of the letter.
Ms A had phoned several times in March 2022, but on each occasion, Barclays had 
said they didnt have the letter, which was untrue. 
If Barclays had dealt with her letter properly, there would be no arrears (because a 
capital repayment holiday would have been put in place).
Barclays had denied her the chance of a repayment holiday, even if they werent 
obligated to agree to one. 
Barclays website clearly says that capital repayment holidays for CBILs are an 
option. 
Someone at Barclays had told Ms A that, had the letter been received in time (which 
in fact it was), they would have been able to offer her a term extension. 
While the complaint was with our service, the bank had also repeatedly threatened 
her with debt collectors and closing her current account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Ms A but I dont think Barclays needs to do anything 
further to put things right. Ill explain why. 
First, I would like to say that I accept Ms As evidence regarding the letter. I have seen the 
Post Office proof of delivery, from which Im satisfied that the letter was delivered to Barclays 
on 17 March 2022. It follows that, whilst the exact circumstances remain unclear, I consider 
Barclays made some kind of error between then and the 26 April. The result of this was 
Barclays saying they didnt have the letter whenever Ms A tried to contact them between 
those dates, which I can only imagine was extremely frustrating. 
The decision for me is then is what is likely to have been the consequence of this error. 
Ms As argument is that, were it not for banks error in mislaying her letter, Barclays would 
have agreed to a capital repayment holiday in March 2022 before any arrears accumulated. 
Some background to the various coronavirus loan schemes is relevant here. These schemes are administered by a body called the British Business Bank. Ms A had already used one of 
the other loan schemes, the Bounce Bank Loan Scheme (BBLS). She then wanted to top it 
up to a higher level than the maximum permitted under that scheme, so she refinanced onto 
a CBIL. 
In September 2020, the government announced a range of measures designed to give 
borrowers more time and greater flexibility to repay loans taken out under the loan schemes. 
Most of these measures applied only to the 100% government-backed BBLS, where a set of 
options known as Pay As You Grow (PAYG) were put in place, which had to be provided 
by lenders automatically on demand.
For CBILs, the only forbearance option I have seen mentioned by the British Business Bank 
was a term extension  that is, reducing monthly repayments by paying them over a longer 
period of up to ten years (from an original maximum of five years, plus one year repayment 
free). But even this option was at the discretion of the bank and not subject to automatic 
eligibility like PAYG. 
I have looked carefully at what Ms A said in her letter sent on 16 March. The main part of 
this said:
it may be twelve months before I can afford to start repaying this loan. Is this 
something you can help me with, and if so, how would it work? In the meantime, would 
you need a nominal minimum monthly payment or can this be treated as a payment 
holiday.
I agree with our investigator that this letter was a request to open a discussion, to which 
Barclays should have responded. But I havent seen any evidence that the bank was ever 
likely to have agreed a repayment holiday, which was clearly what Ms A was hoping for. 
I have seen evidence that Barclays have made many attempts to talk to Ms A since 26 April 
and have urged her to make contact with them. But they have also told her more than once 
that the only option available to her is an extension of the term of the loan. As I have said, 
this is in line with the British Business Banks guidance. 
I note that Barclays communications on the availability of repayment holidays could have 
been clearer. Ms A refers to an email I havent seen, which she said promised to let her 
know the options available ...to request repayment holidays. I can also see that Barclays 
website still refers to the option to take capital repayment holidays, so that payments can be 
matched to income (subject to prior approval). But even if this option is possible in some 
cases, its clear that it would be at the banks discretion  and Barclays have never 
suggested it would have been an option for Ms A. 
Ms A has said that someone at Barclays told her that, if they had received her letter in time, 
a term extension would have been agreed. I havent heard this call and it isnt reflected in 
Barclays notes. I think its more likely that Barclays might have told Ms A that it would have 
been considered. Im not persuaded a term extension would have been agreed  and even if 
it had been, I dont think it would have solved Ms As problems. An extension of the term of Ms As CBIL would still have left her repayments at over £500 a 
month. I can see that in a later communication, Ms A said she couldnt fill in Barclays budget 
planner, because her income was so inconsistent. I also note that she hasnt made any 
payments to the loan at all. Based on all these factors, I think its unlikely that an extension 
of the term of the CBIL would have dealt with Ms As business cashflow problems. So even 
if Barclays had got in touch with Ms A straight away to discuss her options, I dont think I can 
fairly say that this would have solved her business difficulties and prevented the loan getting 
into arrears. 
As far as I can see, Barclays has responded to Ms As complaints at least twice and 
awarded her compensation of £125 in total for poor service. They havent been specific 
about the nature of this poor service. But on balance, given the circumstances, I think £125 
is sufficient to compensate Ms A for the banks error in mislaying her letter for six weeks. 
I am aware that Barclays have continued to try and agree a way forward with Ms A. I am not 
sure what the status of these talks is currently but I can see the bank have been seeking 
information on current trading performance, which seems reasonable. I would strongly 
suggest Ms A engages with the bank at this stage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC have done enough to put things right, so Im 
not going to direct them to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman