DRN-3457595
The complaint
Ms C complains about the advice given by Retirement Direct Limited (RDL) to transfer the 
benefits from her preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Ms C approached RDL around February 2009 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
Ms C says she didnt want to work as hard as she had been and was looking to see if she 
could access her pension early to help meet her objective of retiring, or semi-retiring abroad.
In June 2009 RDL completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Cs circumstances 
and objectives. RDL also carried out an assessment of Ms Cs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be cautious  a score of 3 on a scale of 1-10.
On 24 June 2009, RDL sent Ms C a letter which set out the details of her existing DB 
pension scheme including the transfer value, the income she could expect to receive at her 
normal retirement ages (Ms C had two periods of service with different normal retirement 
ages of 60 and 65.)
On 14 August 2009, following a number of telephone conversations with Ms C for which RDL 
has detailed file notes, RDL advised Ms C to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
arrangement to enable her to take a tax-free cash lump sum, make an immediate income 
withdrawal and with the remaining funds buy an annuity. The suitability report said the 
reason for this recommendation was that it would provide Ms C with the maximum tax-free 
cash in order to meet her objective of moving abroad, at the same time as giving her an 
ongoing income to ensure that her pension was not subject to any fluctuations in investment 
markets.
In May 2021 Ms C complained to RDL, via a representative about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. In summary she said that her DB pension was index linked with no worry 
about investment performance or annuity rate risk. She said that given what RDL understood 
about her objective of wanting to retire abroad and the fact she had family she could stay 
with whilst she tested the waters, it wouldve been in her best interests to remain in her 
DB scheme.
On 4 June 2021 RDL produced a 24-page detailed response letter to Ms C, which said that 
its primary position was that the complaint was out of time. But in addressing the merits of 
the complaint, in summary it said it didnt uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The advice was suitable  it met Ms C objectives and the alternatives to transferring 
were fully discussed and discounted.
RDL explained and Ms C fully understood the risks involved in transferring  the fact 
that she was prioritising early retirement over continuing to wait until her schemes 
normal retirement age, which would ultimately impact her retirement income later on.
The advice process took most of 2009 and included four advice meetings to ensure 
Ms C understood the implications of what she wanted to do and was able to make an 
informed decision.
Ms C referred her complaint to our service. Following an ombudsmans decision that Ms Cs 
complaint was one we could look at  it wasnt out of time - an investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary they said:
The advice was suitable because it enabled Ms C to meet her primary objective  
she was able to spend time abroad, which prior to the advice she told the 
investigator she wasnt in a position to be able to do. 
The alternatives to transferring her pension were adequately discussed with Ms C. 
There was clearly a trade-off to be had  but Ms C was happy to accept a lower 
future income in exchange for an immediate cash lump sum and early retirement.
The critical yield or growth rate required to match Ms C DB scheme benefits wasnt 
achievable, which RDL highlighted as such to Ms C saying that the transfer didnt 
represent good value for money. But they went on to say that the recommendation 
didnt expose Ms C to investment risk because she purchased an annuity which 
gave her the small income she needed.
Ms C, through her representative disagreed. In summary they said:
The investigator placed great emphasis on Ms Cs need to retire early  but it says 
while Ms C was working long hours in a stressful position, this isnt sufficient to justify 
the transfer.
Ms C was in a vulnerable position, which influenced her decision  RDL ought to 
have ensured she was able to make rational decisions about her pension.
Ms Cs recorded objective was to retire early  but she continued to work after the 
pension transfer took place and didnt go abroad until October 2010.
Ms C says that she was in no real rush to move abroad, so it questions why she 
needed access to £25,000 when she continued to work and didnt move immediately.
RDL failed to establish Ms Cs long-term objectives.
Ms Cs objectives ended up being short-term  she only resided abroad on and off for 
three years before moving back to the UK. Ms C only fully retired in 2018 when her 
health deteriorated.
Ms C didnt need the full tax-free cash she received - for example she was able to gift 
her son some money four years later.
RDL didnt assess Ms Cs understanding of the risks involved  she was an 
inexperienced investor who relied on the advice she was given so she had no reason 
to question it.
The advice wasnt in Ms Cs best interests  while it provided security and comfort to 
Ms C at the time, this was to the detriment of her future retirement plans and income.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, RDL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Ms Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial viability 
Its not disputed that, because the critical yield or growth rates required to match Ms Cs 
DB scheme benefits at her normal retirement ages (60 and 65 for the two different service 
periods) were both in excess of 13% and 12% - and so too high given Ms Cs attitude to risk 
- the transfer wasnt financially viable. And in my view, this was clearly documented in the 
advice paperwork.
But not only was this documented in the advice paperwork, RDL wasnt recommending Ms C 
transfer the benefits from her DB scheme because it thought shed be better off. So given 
this and because Ms C took her benefits immediately, Ive focused on the other 
considerations, which I think meant the transfer was suitable in the circumstances despite 
providing overall lower benefits.
Access to tax-free cash and income need
Ms Cs primary objective and the reason she sought advice from RDL was because she was 
looking to see if she could use her pension to help facilitate a move abroad and retire early 
or semi-retire. Ms C was a citizen of the country she wanted to move to and she wanted to 
test the waters first before considering whether a permanent move was possible. Ms C 
wanted access to a cash lump sum as well as an income to enable her to achieve this. 
The advice paperwork records that Ms C wanted around £25,000 as a lump sum. On the 
one hand this appears a large amount given Ms C hadnt yet decided to move abroad 
permanently and was only looking to test the waters  something Ms Cs representative has 
argued, which I will address in more detail later on. 
But on the other hand its documented that Ms C said she wanted to spend six months or 
longer abroad before making any definite plans. So she would need money for rent, flights 
and living expenses. And on the basis that Ms C intended to keep her UK property for the 
time being, she would also still need money to pay her rent, council tax and other normal 
household expenditure for example. I can also see that the advice paperwork records that 
Ms C told RDL that shed done a lot of research and would need substantial medical cover 
for example. I think given that the country Ms C was moving to did not have a reciprocal 
health care agreement with the UK, and Ms Cs intended length of stay would exceed the 
period of cover provided by a typical travel insurance policy, Ms C understood this and 
wanted a sum of money put aside to cover any healthcare requirements.
So while I accept its possible it was RDL who suggested the figure of £25,000 as Ms C says 
she assumes was the case, albeit she says she cant fully remember, it seems to me that 
Ms C had also given careful thought to what she needed and she was in agreement that this 
was the amount of money she needed access to, to realise her objective.
Ive thought about whether Ms Cs objective and her need for a lump sum was realistic or 
necessary in the circumstances  i.e. did Ms C need to access her pension early or should she had been advised that her plans werent in her best interests?
Ms Cs objective was perhaps not as pressing as if she needed access to a lump sum for 
repayment of debt for example and her pension was the only asset available to her to 
provide it. But Im also mindful that Ms C told us that she was exhausted from working in 
high pressure and stressful roles and wanted to be in a position to spend time abroad. Ms C 
was a citizen of the country she wanted to move to, shed lived there before, she had family 
and friends there and it seems to me that Ms C had thought carefully about what it was she 
wanted to do.
So taking everything into account, I think Ms Cs objective was reasonable in the 
circumstances. It strikes me that it would help remove some, if not all of the stresses of work 
and ultimately improve her quality of life by allowing her to retire or semi-retire early. And 
because Ms C didnt have any savings or other assets she couldve used to meet her 
objective, I think Ms C had a need to access a lump sum. And in this case a need to access 
her tax-free cash earlier than her DB schemes normal retirement age, as well as take an 
immediate income. By accessing her tax-free cash, which was around £25,000, it appears 
that Ms C wouldve been able to meet her objective.
Although this meant that Ms C wouldnt be in receipt of as much income from her pension as 
she wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme once she reached 65, something I will 
discuss in more detail below, I think this was necessary in the circumstances. By transferring 
her pension to a personal arrangement, Ms C was able to fulfil her objective of moving 
abroad and retiring early, which I dont think she would otherwise have been able to do.
Ive thought carefully about whether Ms Cs objective couldve reasonably been met by other 
ways, which I can see RDL considered at the time. 
The first of these is whether Ms C couldve stayed in her DB scheme and taken early 
retirement. But Im satisfied this wasnt an option. Its recorded that Ms C had enquired about 
this herself and was told early access was only available due to severe ill health or 
compassionate grounds  neither of which applied to Ms C.
I can see that RDL discussed on more than one occasion the possibility of Ms C borrowing 
the money, including taking out a mortgage on her property. Its recorded that Ms C said she 
didnt want to take on borrowing. And in my view, borrowing the money generally wasnt a 
practical solution  I think affordability wouldve been an issue. Also, and more specifically 
Ms C couldnt have taken out a mortgage on her property because it was a shared 
ownership property where she didnt own 100% of it  so equity release wasnt available.
Ive already said that Ms C didnt have any savings she couldve used. And while its 
recorded that Ms C had excess income, which she couldve saved to help meet her 
objective, this was discounted on the basis that it would take too long to reach the amount 
Ms C needed.
So overall I dont think there were any reasonable alternatives available to Ms C to meet her 
objective. But Im nevertheless satisfied that RDL explored these in detail with Ms C before 
making its recommendation.
Turning now to Ms Cs income requirement  RDLs recommendation included providing 
Ms C with an immediate income by transferring her pension fund to an income withdrawal 
contract followed by its immediate termination so that the remaining fund could buy an 
annuity. RDLs assessment of Ms Cs attitude to risk was that she was a cautious investor  
so by providing her with a guaranteed income this way for the remainder of her life, this was 
in my view in line with her attitude to investment risk and suitable in the circumstances. But ultimately there was a trade-off. And the trade-off here was the level of Ms Cs retirement 
income. RDL recorded that, assuming Ms C remained in the UK, her existing pension 
provision wasnt sufficient to meet her desired retirement income. But if she proceeded with 
its recommendation, Ms Cs income at her state pension age of 62 was shown to be 
marginally higher than if she remained in her DB scheme. The position was reversed  she 
would be worse off by around £500 a year - from age 65 when the second part of her
DB scheme was payable.
Nevertheless this trade-off was in my view clearly discussed with Ms C. In its 
recommendation letter RDL set out a table, which showed her income at age 62 and 65 
based on both remaining in her DB scheme and transferring, highlighting the effects I 
described above. And RDLs telephone file notes show this was something that was 
discussed with Ms C, including inflation risks and exchange rate risks in taking a level 
annuity and moving abroad. Its also recorded that Ms C accepted this. Ms C is reported to 
have said that she understood she will be reducing her retirement income from her own 
resources and confirmed that having the cash and immediate income now was more 
important than a higher level in the future.
Im mindful that by taking an immediate income, Ms C had around three more years pension 
income than she would otherwise have done had she remained in her DB scheme. And this 
immediate income appears to have allowed Ms C to resign from her stressful full-time job 
and work fewer hours via an agency before she moved abroad towards the latter part of 
2010. Its also the case that Ms Cs desired income need was based on her remaining in the 
UK and/or keeping her UK property. But her documented longer term intention was to move 
permanently abroad  she was keen to make a go of it and it wasnt a pipe-dream. In which 
case Ms Cs income need wouldve been considerably lower. She also had the option of 
selling her home in the UK - something she indicated she could do - which would raise 
additional funds to support her financially. 
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded the recommendation was unsuitable or 
that RDL didnt act in Ms Cs best interests at the time. 
I can see Ms Cs representative has argued that she didnt need access to £25,000 given 
she continued to work and didnt move abroad immediately. But I dont think this shows 
Ms Cs plans werent real or thought through. Ms C didnt know how long the transfer of her 
pension benefits was going to take, and I think it was reasonable for Ms C to take time to 
plan her move once she had the funds. And Ive already said above why I think Ms Cs need 
for a cash lump sum was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms Cs representative has also said that RDL only considered Ms Cs short-term objectives. 
But I disagree. The comprehensive telephone file notes RDL has provided record that it 
considered Ms Cs longer-term needs. For example these show RDL discussed with Ms C 
what would happen if her plans didnt go to plan as well what would happen if her health 
deteriorated. But its recorded that Ms C wasnt concerned about either or these things. As 
Ive already explained above, RDL also discussed with Ms C the impact her plans would 
have on her long-term retirement income provision, which she accepted.
Unfortunately ill health did force Ms C to return to the UK. But I dont think this was 
reasonably foreseeable at the time  as I said above, this was something which was 
discussed with Ms C at the time but she wasnt worried about it. Regrettably things changed 
and I think it is this change in circumstances, which has led Ms C to think, in hindsight that 
the advice she received wasnt in her best interests. I also think that Ms Cs representatives 
argument that she didnt need all of the lump sum from her pension because she was able to gift some to her son, also only came about because her plans changed and she returned to 
the UK  not because it was surplus to her original needs and objective.
Finally Ms Cs representative has said Ms C was in a vulnerable position due to her personal 
circumstances at the time, so RDL ought to have ensured she was able to make rational 
decisions about her pension. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Ms C was in a 
vulnerable position. But in any event, this didnt mean RDL had to refrain from advising Ms C 
what was in her best interests. And for the reasons Ive given above, I think RDL did act in 
Ms C best interests  I think the recommendation to transfer out of her DB scheme was 
suitable for Ms C in the circumstances at the time. RDLs advice was conducted over an 
extended period of time, which I think allowed Ms C to consider things carefully and to make 
an informed decision. So I dont think RDL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms C in 
giving its advice.
Summary
While in isolation the financial viability of the transfer of Ms Cs DB scheme to a personal 
arrangement doesnt appear suitable, I think there were other compelling reasons which in 
Ms Cs particular circumstances at the time mean it was in her best interests to transfer out. 
Ms Cs primary objective was to remove herself from her stressful work, retire early and 
move abroad. And given Ms C had no other means at her disposal to meet her objective, I 
think she had a genuine need to access her tax-free cash and draw an income earlier than 
her normal scheme retirement age. And only a transfer to a personal pension arrangement 
provided what Ms C needed.
By transferring Ms C was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income in retirement, and 
from 65 her pension income was going to be lower than it would otherwise have been. But 
taking everything into account, I think in the circumstances this was appropriate and 
necessary to enable Ms C to meet her overall objective. I think this was something that RDL 
discussed with Ms C at length during several phone calls (some are recorded as lasting 
almost two hours) over the course of an extended period of time. So I think its reasonable 
for Ms C to have understood this , and I think she was able to make an informed decision. 
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that RDLs recommendation was 
unsuitable or that it didnt act in Ms Cs best interests.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to not uphold Ms Cs complaint, so I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman