DRN-3462471
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim for damage to his car under his car insurance policy with UKI. In 
February 2022 Mr Bs car was to be returned to him following repairs. But the repairer 
needed more time. 
Mr B was in a hire car while his car was with the repairer. But the hire car company collected 
the hire car from Mr B even though his car wasnt ready. Mr B spoke to UKI and it spoke to 
the hire car company. UKI wasnt able to prevent the hire car from being collected or arrange 
a replacement hire car imminently. The hire car company couldnt confirm when a 
replacement hire car would be available. 
Mr B explained to UKI that his partner Mr M - who is a named driver under the policy - was 
receiving treatment for cancer and Mr B required a car to take him for his appointments. Mr 
B said it wasnt medically advisable for Mr M to use public transport. Mr B said Mr M missed 
some appointments because he didnt have access to a hire car. 
The following day UKI said it would pay Mr B £500 to keep him mobile which he could use to 
arrange car hire. And it said it would pay him £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr B raised a complaint with UKI. UKI sent Mr B £500 which he received two days after the 
hire car was collected. 
On 1 March 2022 UKI upheld Mr Bs complaint. It said it failed to extend the car hire. When 
the car hire company said it would require a new instruction, there was no guarantee of a car 
being immediately available. So UKI said it paid £500 which Mr B accepted in order to 
arrange alternative car hire. UKI said its compensation offer of £150 was reasonable and 
arranged for payment to follow. 
On the same day Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt recommend 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had made errors, but had done enough 
to put things right. The Investigator explained that as Mr B was the policyholder, 
compensation UKI paid was in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to him. He 
found that the policy provided cover for either a hire car for the duration of repairs or  if 
unavailable  a payment of up to £500 to keep Mr B mobile. As Mr B had received the 
benefit of a hire car for part of the duration of repairs and the maximum payment of £500, he 
thought this was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he says that Mr M is also a policyholder and as both were 
caused distress and inconvenience by UKI the compensation award should be £300. He 
says £150 isnt enough to reflect the impact of Mr M having to use public transport against 
medical advice to attend important medical appointments.
Mr B says the hire car was collected on 15 February 2022 and the £500 payment didnt clear 
until late afternoon on 17 February 2022. So he was without a hire car for three days. Mr B is 
very unhappy at the suggestion that he received more from UKI than he was entitled to when 
it paid him £500 to keep him mobile. He says UKI advised him that its approved repairer 
wouldnt be able to deal with the repairs and he was therefore advised to take his car to a 
dealership garage. He says UKI set no time limit on the duration of car hire for this reason 
and his car was at the garage for longer than 21 days. 
In any event, Mr B says the payment of £500 would only have covered a few days car hire 
as it costs a minimum of £80 a day car hire where Mr B lives. 
Mr Bs car was returned to him on 18 March 2022. 
Our Investigator asked Mr B to provide further information to consider the points raised. He 
asked Mr B to provide a copy of a booking confirmation to show when he booked a 
replacement hire car and for how long. The Investigator asked Mr B to confirm when the 
£500 payment ran out and what Mr B and Mr M did to get to medical appointments after this. 
Mr B says he isnt prepared to disturb Mr M for documents while he is receiving treatment in 
hospital. The fact that UKI failed to provide a hire car is evidence enough of fault. He says 
we can carry out our own checks to see how much it costs to arrange car hire in the city 
where Mr B lives. 
Mr B has provided a copy of a letter from a consultant to Mr M confirming a diagnosis of 
cancer.
As Mr B doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read about Mr Ms diagnosis and the obvious impact this has had on him and Mr 
B. I can understand that having to deal with a claim  particularly where things have gone 
wrong  has made an already difficult and distressing time for Mr B and Mr M worse.
UKI has provided a separate response to Mr Bs complaint that he felt discriminated against. 
This doesnt form part of my decision about the complaint about the handling of the claim. 
Ive read Mr Bs comments about the impact of UKIs error. Ive also taken into account the 
period of time it took for UKI to put things right and put Mr B back in the position he would 
have been in if the error hadnt happened. And Ive looked at what the policy says in relation 
to car hire while Mr Bs car was being repaired.
Ive taken an even handed approach to all of the information available. This includes also 
taking into consideration reasonable steps that a customer could take to mitigate the impact 
on them. 
UKIs policy says the following for repair claims:
What is covered
If you make a claim under section B or C of your policy, we will arrange for the hire 
car company to provide you with a hire car, unless the wording under the heading 
The most we will pay below applies.
If your car is repairable and driveable, we will provide you with a hire car:
 once your car is unavailable for use due to our approved repairer commencing the 
repairs and whilst those repairs are carried out; or
 for up to 21 days in a row once your car is unavailable for use due to the repairs 
commencing, when your car is being repaired by your own repairer.The most we will pay
If we are unable to provide you with a hire car because:.there are no hire cars 
available and no alternative cars are available for hire, we will reimburse your travel 
costs (up to £50 a day and up to a maximum of £500 over the 21 days following your 
claim).
Mr B says that because UKI advised for his car to go to a non-approved repairer, the 21 day 
limit shouldnt apply. However, under the section The most we will pay the limit of 21 days 
and £500 benefit under the policy applies irrespective of whether Mr B used an approved or 
non-approved repairer. 
Mr B said that he didnt have the funds to make alternative arrangements. But he also said 
he wouldnt have accepted the offer of £500 if UKI had explained that it was a final offer and 
therefore this option was mis-sold to him. He says he would have instead waited for a hire 
car to become available through UKs approved supplier. 
But I think UKIs response to provide Mr B with funds as soon as possible to arrange 
alternative car hire was a fair and reasonable approach to take  and in line with the policy. I 
take Mr Bs point that the fault of UKI was in failing to extend the car hire when the repairer 
needed more time to look at Mr Bs car. But UKI was advised by the hire car company that a 
replacement car wasnt immediately available  and so to not accept the payment would 
have left Mr B and Mr M having to make alternative arrangements for an unknown period of 
time. When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right. I think UKI 
acted reasonably in paying the maximum benefit of £500 to Mr B so that he could arrange 
car hire as soon as possible. 
Mr B says that the earliest he could have arranged car hire was from 18 February 2022  as 
he received the funds on the evening of 17 February 2022  two days after the hire car was 
collected. 
We asked Mr B to provide proof of what hed paid for alternative car hire and/or public 
transport costs. Mr B says Mr M is in possession of the documents. 
As requested, Ive looked at average prices for car hire in the city where Mr B was living from 
two online sites. Current prices average at £350 for two weeks, £617 for three weeks and 
£700 for four weeks. Daily car hire rates start at around £37 a day. So in the absence of 
supporting evidence from Mr B, I havent been able to conclude that the payment of £500 
from UKI would have covered the costs of hire car for only a few days. 
I understand Mr Bs car was returned to him on 18 March 2022. So - if Mr B could have 
shown that the payment UKI made was used for the purpose it was paid  and that this 
wasnt enough to keep him mobile  I could have reconsidered whether UKI acted 
reasonably here. But I also think its fair to ask for reasonable evidence: in this case being a 
copy of a car hire booking email or form from Mr B and/or any receipts  to support his claim 
for losses. 
So  based on the available information to me  I think UKI acted promptly and paid the 
maximum benefit available under the policy to Mr B. There isnt enough to show that UKIs 
decision to pay Mr B £500 to keep him mobile didnt meet the costs Mr B had to pay for 
alternative travel.
Mr B says the compensation award of £150 which UKI paid isnt enough. He says it should 
be £300 as two policyholders were impacted by UKIs errors. 
Mr M as a named driver is an eligible complainant. And so he is free to ask UKI to consider 
the impact its errors had on him. My decision relates to Mr Bs complaint to UKI. 
I think UKI has paid a fair level of compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B. I think UKI acted promptly in arranging payment to Mr B to put things right 
as quickly as possible. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman