DRN-2825681
The complaint
Ms C complains that she was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in February 1997 and/or 
August 1999 by TSB Bank plc (TSB).
 
What happened
TSBs records show that Ms C took out a SA in February 1997 and then may have closed it 
and taken out another in August 1999. Whether there was one sale or two doesnt affect the 
outcome of my decision, so Ill assume there was one.
Ms C says that she wasnt told about the monthly fee and wasnt aware you could have an 
account without a monthly fee. She says she didnt know what the benefits of the account 
were, and the account wasnt suitable for her.
Lloyds says the SA was sold to her on its recommendation, it gave her the information about 
the account, and it was suitable when it was sold to her. Lloyds also says that she used the 
benefits at different times.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This sale was over 20 years ago, and I wasnt there, so I can only look at the evidence 
available today. Its understandable that there are no documents after such a long time.
Lloyds has provided evidence Ms C had a fee free account for over 5 years before the sale 
of the SA. Once she had the SA, the charges appeared on her account.
On this evidence, in my view I dont think I can say its more likely than not that Ms C wasnt 
aware of fee free accounts and didnt know that shed taken out a SA, as I would need to if I 
were to uphold her complaint on these points.
So, although I dont doubt Ms Cs honest recollections, I think that when the sale took place, 
she knew she had a choice whether to take out the SA, and she chose to take it out.
The SA cost £3 a month and its benefits included payment card protection, accidental death 
benefit, extended warranty, 90-day purchase protection and a £50 fee and interest free 
overdraft.
I think its more likely than not that TSB told Ms C all about the SA as it was trying to sell it to 
her. And she went on to benefit from the fee and interest free overdraft.
In my view there was nothing about Ms Cs circumstances that prevented her from using the 
SA benefits, and she could have closed the SA at any time but didnt and kept it for over 20 
years through which she received copious correspondence reminding her she had it.
So, again, Im not able to say that Ms C didnt have enough information about the SA or that 
it was unsuitable for her as I would need to if I were to uphold her complaint on these points.
So, my conclusion is that TSB didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
For completeness, I can see that this service has corresponded with Ms C about another 
account that was not her SA. In my view that account has no bearing on this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Cs case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman