DRN-2194282
The complaint
Mr W is complaining Provident Personal Credit Limited didnt send him a copy of his fixed 
sum loan agreement after he entered into the agreement. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement provided by Provident. He 
borrowed £900 to be paid back over 12 months. The total cost of credit over the 12 months 
was £892.80 so he had to pay back £1,792.80.
In November 2019 Mr W emailed Provident to say he was in financial difficulties and couldnt 
afford the monthly repayment. Provident responded and asked Mr W if he was able to pay 
his priority bills and it asked him to confirm his financial situation. Mr W responded to say he 
didnt have any spare money at that time and would need more time to pay the account.
In December 2019 Mr W complained that he didnt receive a copy of his credit agreement 
when he took out the finance, so he said he didnt know how much interest he was paying. 
He said he would have repaid the loan within 30 days had he been given a copy of the 
agreement. 
Provident didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it emailed him a copy of the agreement 
when it started. And it offered to send him another copy. It also highlighted the September 
payment was taken without issue. So it thought Mr W was aware how much he was paying 
per month. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint and said the following:
He was satisfied Mr W would have consented to take out the loan when he first took it 
out;
The loan agreement explained Mr W could withdraw from the agreement, so the 
adjudicator thought Mr W would have known about his withdrawal rights; and
He was satisfied Provident had shown it did email Mr W a copy of his loan agreement 
when the loan was activated.
Mr W maintained the loan agreement wasnt sent to him until he asked for it in 
December 2019. He said he keeps all his emails, which is why he says he knows he didnt 
get the email. He maintains that he would have repaid the loan if hed known how much it 
cost. 
As Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Mr W says Provident didnt tell him how much the loan would cost and he says he would 
have repaid it had it done so. 
Provident has given me a copy of the online process Mr W would have followed when he 
applied and agreed to take out the loan. This shows that Provident would have set out key 
features of the finance agreement, in particular, the amount Mr W had borrowed (£900), the 
APR interest rate (315.7%), the monthly repayments (£149.40) and the total amount he 
would have to repay (1,792.80). 
I think Provident should have also specifically set out the amount of interest payable. But its 
clear Mr W wanted the loan and he would have seen the total amount he had to repay and 
the applicable interest rate. So Im satisfied he would have had a reasonable understand of 
how much the loan would cost. And I think he would have still taken out the loan had 
Provident set out the cost of credit as well.
I note Mr W says Provident didnt send him a copy of his credit agreement, but Im satisfied 
Providents internal audit history shows it did do so. This would have been an automated 
process  i.e. the documents would have been automatically emailed to Mr W when he 
submitted his application and it was approved. And it would have sent them to the email 
address Mr W gave.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Provident did take reasonable steps to make Mr W aware of how 
much the loan would cost and he still chose to take the loan out.
I also note Mr W said to the adjudicator, in response to his opinion, that he didnt feel the 
loan was affordable. But this didnt form part of the original complaint he raised with this 
service and I cant see that hes raised this complaint with Provident before. So I havent 
considered this in this decision. Mr W will need to raise this issue with Provident first if he 
wishes to take that further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman