DRN-4039140
The complaint
Mr C complains The One Stop Money Shop Limited (One Stop) gave him a loan without 
carrying out proportionate affordability checks. 
In addition, Mr C also complains about a number of service issues including One Stop taking 
the incorrect amount from his bank and then be spoken to in an unprofessional manner by a 
manager. Mr Cs bank account from which the direct debit was due to be paid was closed, 
and so no further payments were taken which led to a default being applied. Mr C says he 
didnt receive the default notice. Finally, Mr C questions the amount of interest that was to be 
charged on the loan.
 
What happened
Mr C took one loan from One Stop for £400 on 22 April 2022. Mr C was due to make five 
monthly repayments of £128.33. Mr C has had some problems repaying his loan and 
One Stop says a default notice has been issued  although it hasnt yet recorded this with 
the credit reference agencies. It also says there is an agreement in place for Mr C to pay it 
£10 per month towards the balance.  
Mr C complained to One Stop on 29 June 2022, and it responded with a final response letter 
dated 18 July 2022. In summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which 
showed the loan was affordable. Mr C didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She concluded the 
checks carried out by One Stop were proportionate which demonstrated the loan to be 
affordable. She also concluded there wasnt anything in the information it received that 
wouldve prompted it to have carried out further checks. 
In addition, she explained why the interest was in line with the industry wide cost cap, she 
understood Mr Cs concerns about the contact but couldnt really go into any more detail 
because the call wasnt recorded. She also didnt think an error had been made when a 
payment was taken by One Stop. 
Mr C didnt agree with the outcome and asked for a final decision. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive split this decision into two sections, the first part deals with One Stops decision to 
provide the loan. The second part deals with the additional complaint points Mr C raised. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
One Stop had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. One Stops checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest One Stop should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. 
One Stop was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
One Stop has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr C for details of 
his income and expenditure. Mr C declared his income was £4,100 per month and One Stop 
verified this amount by a review Mr Cs wage slip from March 2022 which showed that Mr C 
in that month earned £4,118. It was therefore reasonable of One Stop to have relied on the 
income information Mr C declared. 
Mr C declared monthly outgoings of £2,610 covering a number of different variables 
including rent, council tax, utilities, credit commitments and other  to name a few. As this 
was the first loan Mr C had taken from One Stop, at this point in time, it was reasonable for it 
to have relied on the information given to it by Mr C. 
Before the loan was approved One Stop also carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit reference 
agency. I want to add that although One Stop carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But whatOne Stop couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information 
it received  if necessary.
Having reviewed the credit check results for the loan, there isnt anything that wouldve 
indicated that Mr C was having current financial difficulties. One Stop did know about five 
defaulted accounts, but these were all defaulted several years before the loan was 
advanced, so it was reasonable for One Stop to not have been too concerned by them. 
In addition, Mr C had total debt of £5,301  with loan payments of around £208 per month 
and these accounts were up to date. One Stop also knew Mr C had three credit card 
accounts that didnt have any missed payment markers on them. 
In my view, there wasnt anything, solely from the credit check results that ought to have led 
One Stop to either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or 
prompted it to have declined Mr Cs application for credit. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led One Stop to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying his outgoings. So, 
while Mr C has said some of his expenditure had been underdeclared, One Stop wasnt 
aware of this at the time, by carrying out what I consider to be a proportionate check. And as 
Ive said above, One Stop couldve reasonably relied on the information Mr C had provided. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for One Stop to 
have relied on the information Mr C provided which showed he had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything 
else to suggest that Mr C was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would 
be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs complaint about the lending decision. 
Other considerations 
I appreciate why Mr C feels the interest that One Stop was going to charge him to repay the 
loan was too high. Since 2015, there has, for these types of loan been a cost cap that was 
put in place by the industry regulator. 
In summary a lender cant charge a consumer more than 100% more in interest fees and / or 
charges than the amount borrowed. In this case, Mr C borrowed £400 and so the maximum 
amount One Stop can collect  under the cost cap is £800. The credit agreement explained 
that £769.98 was what Mr C had to repay if he repaid the loan in line with the payment 
schedule.  As this was under the cost cap, I cant say that One Stop has made an error with 
the interest rate that it has charged.  
Mr C has also said; You have taken money from my bank without consent of my card 
details, you have refused to contact the bank to cancel the payment. Having looked at the 
loan application process One Stop says part of that wouldve been a requirement to 
complete a direct debit mandate form. And contained within the direct debit mandate form 
provided by One Stop says;
Signing this authority also allows us to process automated card payments if needed 
 only if you are have previously provided us with the required details.
One Stop has explained that in June 2022 the direct debit mandate failed and as a result it 
took the payment through the card details it had been provided with. However, One Stop has 
explained that this payment was refunded in July 2022  and I can see this from the system notes it has provided. One Stop also says a Chargeback was applied for by Mr C which was 
also refunded. So, even if there was an error in taking the payment  to be clear I am not 
concluding this, the funds have already been refunded to Mr C. So, I say no more about this. 
I also appreciate that Mr C says he hasnt received a default notice that One Stop says was 
sent. Payments havent been made for a number of months  which seems to be as a result 
of the complaint being with the Financial Ombudsman - but even before the complaint was 
referred here, payments hadnt been made in line with the credit agreement. 
Ultimately, as Mr C hasnt made payments in line with the credit agreement he agreed to 
when he took the loan, One Stop is entitled to record an accurate reflection of how he may 
repay the loan, and this is in line with good industry practice as outlined by the Information 
Commissioners Office. 
Finally, its clear from Mr Cs complaint email that he was unhappy with the way he says he 
was spoken to on the phone. One Stop has already explained that calls arent recorded and 
this means, I cant say or know for sure exactly what happened. 
However, I also have to acknowledge that in the final response letter, One Stop says that 
perhaps some colloquialisms filtered through to a call  and it apologised for this.  
Unfortunately, as there is no further evidence, I cant fairly make an award against One Stop. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman