DRN-4108283
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) should never have approved such a 
high overdraft and it failed to do the proper checks when assessing her affordability prior to 
granting the overdraft.
 
What happened
Miss L was approved for an overdraft in July 2019. Miss L complained to Lloyds about its 
irresponsible overdraft lending. Lloyds upheld Miss Ls complaint and agreed to:
Refund all charges and interest from 15 July 2019 when the overdraft was approved; 
Pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
Back date the default on her account to the date the overdraft was granted.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Lloyds had offered is in-line with 
what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything more. Miss L disagreed she 
would like more compensation considering the depth of her complaint and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
To be clear the contents of this decision only covers Lloyds lending decisions in relation to 
the overdraft Miss L had with it. Miss L has raised other complaint points which have been 
dealt with separately in other complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it should have realised 
was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Miss L has been left with an outstanding balance on her overdraft, once all 
adjustments have been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft. So while Miss L has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss L says Lloyds should do something different here. She doesnt think the compensation 
is enough considering the distress caused and the depth of her complaint. She says her 
mental health was affected alongside her physical disability.
Ive thought about what Miss L has said and I sympathise with all she has been through, but 
what shes said is a reason for upholding her complaint rather than a reason for departing 
from our normal approach to putting things right in cases such as hers. And some of the very 
difficult events that have happened to her  were independent of the lending decisions made 
by Lloyds. 
All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what she now needs to pay. So what Miss L is left with to repay are the funds which she 
used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her 
with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss L spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss L to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Ls 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
However, in saying that, my understanding is that Lloyds recoveries team are now dealing 
with Miss Ls account and that given Miss L vulnerabilities, she has been provided with a 
debt and mental health evidence form to complete so Lloyds can review whether it is willing 
to consider writing off her debt with it. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to proceed so 
Miss L should now go ahead and complete and submit this form and give Lloyds the chance 
to be given all the information so it can review her position further.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
persuaded further compensation above the £100 is warranted, so Im not requiring Lloyds to 
do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss L to decide whether she wishes to 
accept Lloyds offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman