DRN-3925131
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim made under
their commercial landlord property insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022 damage was caused to the roof of Mr and Mrs Cs let property during a
storm. They contacted UKI, their commercial property insurer, to make a claim.
Temporary works were arranged by Mr and Mrs C to prevent further damage. UKIs surveyor
later attended to inspect the damage, and as a temporary covering had been applied to the
damaged section of the roof, they were only able to review the uncovered, undamaged,
section.
UKI declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim. They said that the roof was suffering from a natural
breakdown of materials, wear and tear and deterioration. They recognised that there were
storm conditions, but they were of the view that there was a pre-existing issue with the roof
prior to the storm which was the dominant cause of the damage. In addition, UKI also said
that Mr and Mrs C hadnt complied with a condition precedent in their policy. This required
them to have the flat roof inspected every two years, and any issues identified rectified
immediately.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with UKIs position and the claim being declined. They
accepted they hadnt complied with the condition precedent, but they said the roof wasnt
suffering from deterioration and comments provided by their roofer supported that. As they
remained unhappy, they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that UKIs surveyors
report wasnt persuasive in showing the roof was in a poor or deteriorated condition prior to
the storm. He also said the photos from both parties didnt support that conclusion either,
and Mr and Mrs Cs roofer had said the roof was in a good condition. Ultimately, he didnt
think UKI had shown this was the dominant cause of damage.
The investigator also recognised there was a condition precedent which required the roof to
be inspected and Mr and Mrs C hadnt complied with that. However, in his view, it hadnt
been shown the roof was in a poor condition, so even if they had complied with it, this
wouldnt have identified any issues with the roof. Therefore, our investigator didnt think UKI
had acted fairly by declining the claim and he said they should reassess the claim in line with
the remaining policy terms.
UKI didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Whilst I recognise it will come as 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator. Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my findings before I reach my final decision.
The condition precedent
Mr and Mrs Cs policy contains a condition precedent in relation to their flat roof. This 
says:
Felt/Flat Roof
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that any flat or felt on timber portion 
of the roof is to be inspected once every 2 years by a competent roofing 
contractor and any recommendation are implemented immediately.
This means it is conditional for a claim to be made and for UKI to accept liability that 
the flat roof is inspected once every two years and any recommendations 
immediately carried out. However, Mr and Mrs C accept they havent complied with 
the condition precedent  that isnt in dispute.
For an insurer to rely on a condition precedent, wed expect them to show the claim 
was caused by, or increased the risk by, the failure to comply with the condition 
precedent. If that was the case, it might not be unreasonable for an insurer to rely on 
the condition precedent to decline the claim.
However, if failure to comply with the condition precedent made no difference, or 
didnt increase the risk, then it may not be reasonable to rely on it. The wording in 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy effectively outlines this:
Conditions Precedent
Every condition precedent to which this Policy or any Section or item thereof 
is, or may be, made subject will, from the time the condition precedent 
attaches, apply and continue to be in force during the whole currency of this 
Policy. Non-compliance with any such condition precedent may be a bar to 
any claim under the relevant Section(s) of this Policy, where the subject 
matter of the claim was caused by the non-compliance or to the extent that it 
was increased by the non-compliance.Our investigator didnt think failure to comply with the condition precedent caused or
increased the resulting claim, so he said it wasnt fair for UKI to rely on it. This was 
on the basis he said the roof was in a good condition, so he said even if an 
inspection had been carried out, this wouldnt have changed anything as there 
wouldnt have been any recommendations to immediately carry out.
However, Im not minded to agree with our investigators view here. And unless 
anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im not 
minded to conclude its unreasonable for UKI to partly rely on this to decline 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim. Ill explain why when I consider the claim and roof damage 
below.
The roof damage
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers a number of insured events. This includes:
Storm, Tempest, excluding Damage:
a caused by the escape of water from the normal confines of any natural 
or artificial water course, lake reservoir, canal or dam;
b caused by inundation from the sea whether resulting from storm or 
otherwise;
c caused by frost, subsidence, ground heave or landslip;
d attributable solely to change in the water table level; or
e to walls (not forming part of the structure), fences, gates or moveable 
property in the open or in open sided structures.
Therefore, Mr and Mrs Cs policy does cover damage caused by a storm, with 
specific exclusions as outlined. However, for there to be cover, the storm needs to be 
the main or dominant cause of the damage, as that is the insured event under the 
policy.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
It isnt in dispute there were storm conditions, so I dont need to decide that point. 
And a flat roof could be damaged in a storm. So, potentially the first two questions 
have been satisfied.
However, based on what Ive seen, on balance, I dont think the storm was the main 
or dominant cause of damage. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all the information provided by both parties. Each party is of a 
completely different view. Mr and Mrs Cs roofer said the roof membrane was old but 
wasnt showing signs of deterioration and was well fitted. UKIs surveyor says the 
roof was suffering from a natural breakdown of materials, wear and tear and 
deterioration, but they couldnt actually inspect the damaged area.In cases like this, where the evidence is contradictory, Ill reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider is more likely based on the 
evidence which is available. I think the photographic images provided by both parties 
are the most helpful way, on balance, for me to decide what is most likely.
UKIs images
UKIs surveyor wasnt able to inspect the roof until around six weeks after the claim 
was first made. They took photos of the roof using a pole without actually going onto 
the roof.
When they attended, temporary works had already been carried out to the front of the 
roof which was the damaged area. This included the damaged area being covered by 
waterproof polythene sheeting. This meant the front of the roof, the damaged area, 
was covered and not visible to UKIs surveyor. Consequently, the images of the 
covered roof section dont add much weight in supporting UKIs view that the roof 
was suffering a natural breakdown of materials, wear and tear and deterioration.
However, UKIs surveyor was able to take images of the rear section of the roof 
immediately behind, attached to, and part of, the covered damaged front section. In 
my view, the images of the rear of the roof support the conclusions reached by UKIs 
surveyor that it was suffering from a natural breakdown of materials, wear and tear 
and deterioration.
I say this because they show the roof to be rippling and sagging, rather than having a
smooth flat covering which you might expect from a flat roof which wasnt suffering 
any wear. It has patches where the covering clearly appears very worn with minimal 
surface left. And it has pooling to it in different areas, which indicates it is suffering 
from a degree of deterioration. Given that this visible section of the roof is directly 
attached to the front damaged area, and effectively part of one continuous roof 
surface, I think this demonstrates the likely condition the front of the roof was also in 
prior to the bad weather.
I do note that it wasnt until around six weeks after the storm that UKIs surveyor 
attended, but I dont think, on balance, its likely the condition to the visible back 
section was only the result of the six weeks that had passed.
Furthermore, the damaged area, based on the invoice for temporarily covering it, 
gave the dimensions as 35m2. But the permanent repair quote includes a complete 
covering of the roof totalling 78m2, significantly in excess of that area which was 
damaged in the storm. So, this appears to also include repairs to the visible back 
section too. Which shows this section is also in need of repairs, despite not being 
damaged during the storm or needing a temporary cover, highlighting it has 
deteriorated  further supporting the likely condition of the front section before the 
storm.
With this in mind, on balance, Im persuaded the images provided by UKIs surveyor 
support UKIs position the roof was suffering a natural breakdown of materials, wear 
and tear and deterioration, which was highlighted by the weather. However, it isnt 
just UKIs images that Ive relied on to reach that conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Cs images
Images were taken by Mr and Mrs Cs roofer after the damage had happened, and 
prior to the temporary repairs being completed.This shows a large section of the flat roof covering lifted back, twisted, folded and 
damaged. This mainly shows the underside of the flat roof covering so on the whole 
doesnt show what the top side and surface looked like. However, in some of the 
images, the visible roof surface in the damaged area (surrounding a small 
chimney/outlet) appears to be suffering historic deterioration and cracking.
UKI has commented that the underneath chipboard also looks to be historically 
deteriorated, and this is also quoted for in the repair quote provided by Mr and Mrs C 
as needing replacement. Looking at the images, it appears soft, and brittle, 
historically suffering wear and deterioration, rather than being damaged by a one-off 
event of storm. So, Im inclined to agree with UKIs views on this.
In addition, the neighbouring roof  attached directly to Mr and Mrs Cs  didnt suffer 
from damage during the storm  thats clear from the images as it still remains in situ. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs Cs roofer says their roof is more exposed, based on the location 
and the direct join to Mr and Mrs Cs roof without anything separating them, on 
balance Im not able to conclude that it is considerably more sheltered from the 
elements than Mr and Mrs Cs. This further supports there was a pre-existing issue 
with Mr and Mrs Cs roof prior to the storm.
I accept the weather conditions were a storm. But if the roof was in a well-maintained
condition, in my view it is unlikely to have suffered the damage that has been caused 
here. As I say, I think this is supported by the fact that the adjoining neighbouring roof 
didnt suffer damage at the same time. 
With this in mind, on balance, Im minded to conclude that whilst there was a storm, 
Mr and Mrs Cs roof was likely suffering from a natural breakdown of materials, wear 
and tear and deterioration and this was the dominant cause of the damage, which 
was highlighted by the storm weather at the time. So, Im not minded to conclude UKI 
has acted unfairly by declining the claim on this basis.
Taking the above into account, Im also minded to agree with UKI that if 
Mr and Mrs C had complied with the flat roof condition precedent in their policy, this 
may have resulted in the existing issues with the roof being discovered sooner.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not minded to conclude UKI has acted unreasonably by declining 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
I also note Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy that UKI didnt acknowledge their 
concerns when they were raised. UKI recognised that they had failed to send an 
acknowledgement within the timescales they wouldve expected and apologised for 
this. I think UKIs apology for this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
UKI responded accepting my provisional decision and said they had no further information to 
supply.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline I set.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, as neither party provided a response which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman