DRN-3435937
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Skrill Limited didnt do enough to prevent her falling victim to an online 
investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Ms Y says that she was the victim of a scam. In October 2019 she made three payments 
from her Skrill account. The payments totalled around $10,000 and they all went to another 
account held with Skrill. 
Ms Y says that at the time she believed she was investing in cryptocurrency with a company 
Ill refer to as T. But she later found out that T were operating a scam. 
In August 2020 Ms Y reported this to Skrill and asked that she be reimbursed. She thinks 
they should have done more to protect her when the payments were made and that they 
were at fault for allowing a scammer to open and operate an account with them. 
Ultimately Skrill said theyd done nothing wrong and declined to offer a refund. Ms Y referred 
her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators thought there were limits on how much 
of Ms Ys complaint we could consider. And for what we could consider, she didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. Ms Y disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make 
a decision. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision, confirming the extent to which Im able to consider 
this complaint. So I can now go ahead with a decision on the merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Ms Y authorised the payments relevant to this complaint. So Skrills 
primary duty was to make the payments Ms Y had asked them to make. And given the 
nature of Ms Ys account with Skrill, the fact that it was relatively newly opened (with no 
established pattern of spending for comparison), I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Skrill to have processed the payments unchallenged. I think the payments 
would have appeared to be routine to Skrill. 
Ms Y has highlighted industry guidance which she says means Skrill ought to have 
intervened. I agree that Skrill have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their 
customers best interests and Ive considered all Ms Y has said in this regard. But I just dont 
agree that her three payments totalling $10,000 (either individually or collectively) were so 
unusual or suspicious that Skrill ought to have done more. 
Ms Y didnt report a problem with the payments for some time after theyd happened. Im 
sympathetic to the very difficult personal circumstances she has described and her reasons 
for the delay in reporting. But the impact of this is that Skrill were never going to be able to 
recover any of her money as it had all been spent or transferred long before they were on 
notice that there was a problem with her payments. 
Ive also considered the activity on the beneficiary account both before and immediately after 
it received Ms Ys payments. Given the type of account, I dont think any of the activity was 
unusual or suspicious. So there wasnt any reasonable basis upon which I could expect Skrill 
to have intervened in its customers operation of their account. I dont think there were any 
failings by Skrill in this regard which contributed to Ms Ys loss. 
I appreciate Ms Y lost further funds beyond those relevant to this complaint in the same 
scam. And Im pleased to hear she was able to receive some redress from some of the other 
financial institutions involved. But none of this obligates Skrill to provide similar redress. 
Ms Y also mentioned wanting to be provided with the details of Skrills accountholder. There 
isnt a basis upon which I can tell Skrill to share this information directly with Ms Y. Im 
confident Skrill will co-operate with any police investigation and will share information with 
the police if they request it. 
Im sorry Ms Y suffered a loss in this way, but as I dont think Skrill are responsible for 
anything that caused or contributed to the loss or hindered its recovery, I cant fairly tell them 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman