DRN-3721332
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her home insurance policy including the poor service provided and 
general delays. 
For ease of reading any reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs T made a claim under her home insurance policy following an escape of water that 
caused a lot of damage at her property. AXA were notified of the claim in February 2021, but 
Mrs T faced a number of issues and difficulties in advancing her claim with AXA. 
AXA accepted it got things wrong, delayed the claim and offered compensation totalling 
£225. But Mrs T didnt feel this reflected the level of stress, delay, and inconvenience she 
had faced in dealing with the claim and being out of her property in alternative 
accommodation which she didnt feel was suitable. So, she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs T and upheld her complaint. He thought AXA 
should increase its offer of compensation to £500 to account for the delay, stress and 
inconvenience caused by AXAs delays in the claim, poor communication, delays in paying 
Mrs T for the work undertaken and its general lack of proactive claims management. 
As Mrs T didnt agree, believing that she should be paid thousands more in compensation, 
the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that AXA provided a poor service here and caused delay in the settlement of 
the claim, so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this. I will just focus on the 
compensation level offered and whether I feel it is fair in the circumstances of this claim. And 
it is important to point out that I will just be focussing on the period of time relevant to this 
complaint (up to AXAs final response letter (FRL) of 10 May 2022) and not any issues that 
Mrs T suffered after this point in time which she is free to advance separately. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I can understand Mrs Ts position and her frustration and disappointment about how her 
claim has been handled by AXA and its appointed contractors. It is clear AXA contributed to 
a number of delays and poor service in dealing with Mrs Ts claim which is why it offered 
£225 by way of compensation. 
However, although AXA was responsible for a number of delays and caused Mrs T 
additional stress and inconvenience over and above the stress caused by the claim itself I 
dont think it is responsible for all the problems Mrs T faced. I say this as a lot of the issues 
faced was simply down to the complexities of the claim. And the difficulties faced in putting 
things right.
I know Mrs T feels AXA should pay a number of other costs such as her council tax and her 
meals while she has been in alternative accommodation (AA). But as our investigator 
explained Mrs Ts council tax would always have been due so I would only expect it to look 
at this if shed had to pay a second council tax at her AA. And AXA just agreed to pay the AA 
which Mrs T chose so I wouldnt expect it to pay for meals on top of this as Mrs T chose the 
accommodation. And she didnt ask it to rearrange AA because her accommodation didnt 
provide cooking facilities once it became clear things were going to take a lot longer than the 
initial three-month period. So, I think AXA have acted fairly here in agreeing to pay for the 
AA that Mrs T arranged and so I wont be asking it to do anymore about this.
Turning to the level of compensation it is obvious Mrs T hasnt had the level of support that I 
would expect to see. It is clear that payments for crucial parts of the claim were delayed 
which had a knock-on effect on the time taken to put things right, especially as Mrs T had to 
be heavily involved in the claim to move things forward. Given Mrs T was having to be active 
in the claim and agree the authorisation of repairs in stages this delay in reimbursement was 
significant. And meant the repairs didnt run smoothly and Mrs T had to borrow funds in 
order to pay things upfront. 
As our investigator highlighted it isnt clear why a scope of work wasnt put in place initially 
as this staged approach impacted on the timeliness here. And there wasnt enough support 
from a loss adjuster which meant Mrs T had to arrange most of the works herself and handle 
the claim which clearly added to the already difficult and stressful position. 
I know Mrs T would like a lot more in compensation than our investigator has suggested. But 
our awards are generally modest, and I think just over double the amount AXA offered 
(£500) seems fair. I dont think any amount of compensation would put things right for Mrs T 
as the claim impacted her lifestyle, but I think this offer seems fair and is in line with awards 
that this Service ordinarily makes. 
Given all of this, although I understand there was a lot of time and energy put into this by 
Mrs T, I think £500 in acknowledgement of this and the poor service and general poor claim 
management is fair. Unfortunately, there is always a fair degree of stress and inconvenience 
in advancing an insurance claim and this level of compensation is in line with the kind of 
award this Service would ordinarily make. So, I agree that the complaint should be upheld, 
and that AXA should pay Mrs T £500 compensation. And if Mrs T has any further complaints 
since the date of AXAs FRL (10 May 2022) she will need to raise them separately.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to pay Mrs T £500 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman