DRN-3368839
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mrs M, a director of G, has complained on Gs behalf. G is also represented in this complaint
but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of G.
What happened
G held four policies for four separate businesses, and I understand G has complained about
claims made under all four policies. As I cant consider all four policies/claims under one
decision, this decision will only comment on one policy/claim. However, I understand that the
policies and circumstances are largely the same for all four of the claims.
G bought its policy with Aviva, an insurer, through an intermediary. G transferred to another
intermediary, that Ill refer to as R, but kept the same policy with Aviva. R renewed Gs policy
in February 2019 and recommended that G add an extension for Action by Police,
Government or other Competent Authority (the Extension) to its policy. It was agreed by G
and Aviva that the Extension would be added to the policy.
G claimed on its policy in 2020 after its business was forced to close by Covid-19 and the
Governments response the pandemic. Aviva turned down Gs claim as it said the policy
primarily covered damage to property and Covid-19 didnt damage property. They said the
Extension didnt provide cover as it didnt cover any action taken in controlling, preventing, or
supressing the spread of disease.
G complained to Aviva. It said it hadnt been provided with an updated policy wording when
the Extension was added and therefore the exclusion to the wording in the schedule hadnt
been added. G said that as the policy wording hadnt been updated the wording in the
schedule provided cover for its claim.
Aviva disagreed. They said R hadnt requested an updated policy and so thats why one
hadnt been provided. They said the wording of the Extension was based on their standard
wording. Aviva noted that the Extension was also included in the wording of a policy G had
taken out for a fifth business in April 2019. Aviva said G therefore had access to the full
policy wording.
Unhappy with Avivas response, G brought its complaint to our service. It said the more
onerous the term the greater degree of notice is required to incorporate it. G said no notice
had been given about the exclusion being incorporated. It said the wording on the Policy
Schedule was self-contained and made no reference to any other wording. G didnt think it
was reasonable for Aviva to refer to the fifth policy that did include the full wording as G
wasnt aware of this when the policy was entered in to.
R said that it didnt have copies of the original policy as the policy had been set up by a
different intermediary. It said it had requested a copy of the new policy, but it hadnt been
provided. R said that while it might be aware of wording for other policies, each policy is a
separate contract and it therefore didnt know the wording of the Extension as it hadnt been
provided to them.
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He explained
that we couldnt consider any acts or omissions that happened before 1 April 2019 but
concluded that it was likely the full policy wording had been included in the policy as he
thought the broker, as Gs agent, would have known the wording of the Extension existed
and formed part of the policy. As such, he thought Aviva were entitled to rely on the policy
wording to turn down Gs claim.
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it said:
There was no missing policy wording because, unless G was supplied with new
            policy wording, the terms of the previous policy applied.
Neither the Schedule nor the policy wording contained an exclusion for diseases.
The investigator hadnt explained why R would have known the full wording of the
            Extension.
Even if R was aware of the full wording of the Extension that wording would need to
            be provided to G.
As a matter of law knowledge obtained by an agent (in this case R) outside of its
            retainer isnt ordinarily imputed to the principal (in this case G).
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 February 2022 explaining why I didnt 
think Aviva needed to pay Gs claim. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The Business Interruption section of Gs Policy Schedule has a list of additional
contingencies. This list includes Action by Police, Government, or Other Competent
Authority. It isnt in dispute that the full wording of the Extension wouldnt provide cover for
Gs claim, so I wont set it out here. Instead I need to decide whether Aviva can take the full
wording into account when declining Gs claim or whether only the wording in the schedule
applies. I also have to make a decision based on what I find to be fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of the case.
Our investigator has explained why were unable to consider complaints about acts or
omissions which happened before 1 April 2019 and that doesnt seem to be in dispute.
However, I would like to clarify that, while I cant make any award for any act or omission
before 1 April, I can consider what happened before that date. I say that because events
before this date form part of all the circumstances of the case which are relevant to our
service determining this complaint.
In order for me to decide if Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Gs claim Ive
needed to consider whether the full wording of the Extension formed part of the contract.
This also means Ive needed to consider the knowledge of the parties at the time the
contract was entered in to.
Terms can be incorporated into a contract by one party providing the other with a document
containing the terms; or by one party taking reasonable steps to bring the existence of the
terms to the notice of the other party. This must be done before the parties enter into thecontract. Whether the other party has read or is aware of the terms is irrelevant. The issue is
whether sufficient steps have been taken to bring the terms to their attention. If a term is
particularly onerous or unusual, the onerous or unusual term will only be binding if it has
been fairly and reasonably brought to the attention of the other party. Here, I dont think the
Exclusion was onerous or unusual as the policy provided separate disease cover.
Im not going to make a finding on whether Aviva was at fault for not providing the policy
wording because even if I was to find Aviva at fault, I couldnt make any award for it and it
wouldnt change the outcome of my decision.
There has been mention of Aviva sending G the incorrect policy wording. However, it
appears this was in March 2020, so I dont think its relevant to the crux of this complaint. I
also dont think Aviva supplying the correct policy wording for the fifth business is relevant to
this point as that wasnt available at the time the contract was entered in to.
G said that as new policy wording wasnt supplied then the wording of the previous policy
should be in place. However, if I accepted this argument there wouldnt be any cover as
there isnt a corresponding section of the policy to the Extension on the Schedule and so the
previous policy didnt provide any term that would have covered Gs claim. I think what G
means is that this would therefore mean that the wording on the Schedule would act as a
standalone area of cover. I dont intend to address this point because I think its most likely a
court would decide that the full wording of the Extension had been inserted into the contract.
When considering Gs own knowledge, the Schedule is called, Schedule for Your Eating,
Drinking & Hospitality policy. It also says, The Schedule forms part of Your policy and
replaces the previous Schedule(s). I think this is clear in setting out that the wording in the
Schedule forms part of a wider policy and isnt standalone and I think this is reasonable
notice that it includes policy terms.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that R were acting as Gs agent in the renewal, as G refers
to R as its agent. G has said that knowledge of an agent outside of a retainer isnt ordinarily
imputed to a principal. In this case I do think its likely that Rs knowledge would be imputed 
to G. I say that because R was negotiating the terms of renewal with Aviva on Gs behalf and
Aviva offered to add the cover based on the terms within the updated policy. Its the brokers
responsibility to communicate the terms of the policy to the policyholder and to make them
aware of any warranties or obligations that they are subject to. And even if R didnt
communicate the full wording to G, the renewal was accepted by G on the basis of the terms
that had been offered to R, as Gs agent. This is consistent with Axa Corporate Solutions SA
v National Westminster Bank Plc, Marsh Limited [2010] EWHC1915 (Comm).
While I understand Rs point that it wouldnt be able to communicate the full wording of the
Extension if it hadnt been made aware of it by Aviva, I find it difficult to fairly conclude that R
wasnt aware of the wording of the Extension.
Ive looked at the information available from the renewal in 2019. R wrote to G before the
renewal. Under the heading My Recommendation R says that there are two additional
covers which it has persuaded Aviva to add to the policy at no additional cost. One of these
is the Extension and R gives an overview of the cover it provides, although R doesnt
mention that it doesnt cover actions taken in relation to diseases. Aviva have told us that R
had previously added this extension to other policyholders policies and the wording of the
Extension is its standard wording. While Ive carefully considered the points R has made
about why it didnt know the wording, R had knowledge of the Extension from other
customers policies and I think its unlikely that a broker would recommend cover to a
policyholder without knowing what it was recommending. Therefore, I think its most likely
that R did know the full wording of the Extension and it was on this basis that the cover wasadded to the policy.
For these reasons, I think a court would most likely find that the full wording of the Extension
was added into the policy and therefore I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on the
wording. As the wording of the Extension doesnt provide cover for Gs claim, it follows that I
think Aviva was entitled to decline Gs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome that G was hoping for but, having considered the matter
very carefully, I dont intend to require Aviva to pay Gs claim.
G didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision and Aviva 
didnt respond by the required date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there havent been any further comments in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman