DRN-3276822
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mrs and Mr D made to more 2 life 
limited (M2L). Mrs and Mr D say the release of the mortgage funds was unduly delayed, 
causing them to live in hotel accommodation for four months. Theyre seeking 
compensation for the inconvenience, disruption and stress this caused them.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr D being identified. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order M2L to pay Mrs and Mr D the 
compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that M2L unduly and excessively 
delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay was the 
sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mrs and Mr D. Looking at the 
overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that the latter applies. 
The primary stumbling blocks to M2L agreeing to release the mortgage so that Mrs and Mr D 
could complete their purchase were related to the title of the proposed new property. There 
were two issues: concern over a potential flood risk, and a historic rent charge. These 
matters were dealt with by two firms of solicitors representing M2L and Mrs and Mr D 
respectively. Ill refer to M2Ls solicitors as E, and Mrs and Mr Ds solicitors as M. Where I 
refer to E, I do so in its capacity as M2Ls agent, as at all times it acted on instructions from 
M2L.
Mrs and Mr D have said they dont object so much to the fact that E raised the issues, rather 
how long it took before it brought them up with M. They believe E could have raised them 
after the mortgage offer was issued in April 2020, rather than waiting until August 2020, 
when they were on the point of exchanging contracts. Ive thought hard about that, and Ive 
carefully examined all of the exchanges between E and M during that period. 
Firstly, I dont think E could reasonably have raised its objections over the flood issue and 
the rent charge before it received Ms letter of 4 August 2020. Secondly, once it did so, 
resolution of the two issues was no longer limited to the decisions and actions of E and M. 
Other parties became involved; for example resolving the rent charge query brought into 
play the seller of the property Mrs and Mr D were buying (and his solicitor) as well as 
HM Land Registry. Those parties brought further delays into the equation, for which I cant 
fairly hold M2L responsible.
Additionally, Mrs and Mr D feel M2Ls position on the two issues was unduly harsh, and that 
on both, it could have adopted a more pragmatic stance that would have resulted in a 
quicker resolution. The comments theyve provided from M indicate that it too thinks M2L 
was too rigid. Thats not something I can interfere with, as it goes to a lenders legitimate 
exercise of commercial judgement. When it comes to satisfying itself that it has good title to 
a property presented as security for a mortgage, each lender will have its own appetite for 
risk, and the instructions it issues to its conveyancing solicitors will reflect that.
I appreciate the issues relating to Mrs and Mr Ds purchase might appear to a lay person to 
be trivial. But when looked at in their entirety, and from an impartial point of view, M2L was 
reasonably entitled to take them seriously and to insist that they be resolved to its 
satisfaction. It was a combination of events and circumstances largely beyond M2Ls control 
that meant they took as long as they did to resolve. I dont think the lapse of time was down 
to any particular act or omission on M2Ls part.
I fully appreciate why Mrs and Mr D would want to protect their house sale and move out 
when they did. It might have been a choice between two unwelcome alternatives, but it was 
their choice to act as they did. Clearly, they never imagined theyd be in temporary 
accommodation as long as they were, but Im not persuaded the time lapse could 
reasonably have been foreseen by any of the parties involved.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman