DRN-2967305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim Mrs B made
on their corporate private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy through a
corporate scheme. The policy began on 1 November 2017 and was underwritten on a
moratorium basis.
In June 2017, Mrs B suffered neck and upper right limb pain. She sought treatment from a
consultant neurosurgeon who Ill call Mr Y. He diagnosed a C5/6 protrusion, which was
compressing Mrs Bs C6 nerve root. Mrs B underwent a nerve block injection and
physiotherapy.
Subsequently, in December 2019, Mrs B began to suffer from further neck and upper limb
pain. She saw an NHS consultant who diagnosed a disc disorder in Mrs Bs neck, which they
felt required further investigation. So Mrs B made a claim to Aviva for the costs of the
investigations and any associated treatment costs.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said that as Mrs Bs policy was underwritten on a moratorium
basis, it specifically excluded any claims which were caused by a condition a policyholder
had suffered from during the past five years. As Mrs B had been treated for neck problems in
2017 (and had received physiotherapy during 2018), Aviva considered Mrs Bs condition to
be related to her previous episode of neck pain. This meant it concluded the claim wasnt
covered.
Mr and Mrs B returned to Mr Y for treatment. He diagnosed a C4/5 disc protrusion, which
was compressing Mrs Bs C5 nerve root. Mrs B underwent treatment, which she and Mr B
self-funded. They were unhappy with Avivas decision about their claim and they asked us to
look into their complaint. They also provided us with a letter from Mr Y which stated that Mrs
Bs condition was a new, acute condition.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. While he could
understand why Aviva had initially turned down the claim, he felt Mr Ys specialist evidence
indicated that Mrs Bs condition was new and unrelated to the condition which was treated in
2017. So he recommended that Aviva should pay Mrs Bs claim.
Aviva disagreed. It provided a detailed response from its Chief Medical Officer (CMO), which
Ive summarised. He noted that Mr Y had stated in his initial letter that the C5/6 disease
which was treated in 2017 remained unchanged  therefore, the CMO felt that both left and
right C6 nerve roots were still compromised. The CMO also referred to the fact that Mrs Bs
only demonstrable sensory loss was in her left thumb. He provided a diagram which showed
that this area would be covered by the C6 nerve root. He considered a compromised C5 root
lesion wouldnt cause bilateral symptoms in Mrs Bs thumbs. The CMO didnt think Mr Ys
statements could be reconciled and he wasnt satisfied that Mrs Bs current diagnosis was
the cause of symptoms which started in 2017.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2021, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think Aviva had treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered,
amongst other things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy and the available
medical evidence to decide whether Aviva handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with Aviva. Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs policy schedule, which
shows that their policy was provided on a moratorium basis. So Ive turned to consider what
this section of the policy says. It states:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
- symptoms of
- medication for
- diagnostic tests for
- treatment for, or advice about that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
- medication for
- diagnostic tests for
- treatment for, or
- advice about that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
I think the policy makes it clear that Aviva wont cover conditions which a policyholder had in
the five year period prior. Mr and Mrs B took out the policy in November 2017. It seems that
when Mrs B first called Aviva in December 2019 to make a claim, she told it that shed been
experiencing similar symptoms for around two and half years. This would clearly fall within
the five-year moratorium. And so based on this information, I dont think it was unreasonable
for Aviva to conclude at this point that the claim wouldnt be covered.
However, like the investigator, Ive also placed significant weight on the information Mr Ys
provided in support of Mrs Bs claim. Thats because he is a consultant neurosurgeon and
spinal surgeon, with specialist knowledge in this field. Hes also had the opportunity to
examine and treat Mrs B at first hand  first in 2017 and then subsequently, in January 2020.
Mr Ys first report, following a consultation with Mrs B on 3 January 2020, gives a diagnosis
of: Left-sided neck pain radiating to the left shoulder and arm - C4/5 disc bulge
compromising the left C5 nerve root. He also stated: Her cervical spine MRI performed on
the 04/04/2019 as compared to that performed on the 03/06/2017 showed an acute C4/5
disc bulge compromising the left C5 nerve root. The C5/6 disease compromising the C6
nerve roots remained unchanged. 
While it seems that Mrs Bs previous C5/6 disc disease was still present, Mr Y noted the 
C4/5 disc protrusion as a separate diagnosis.
Mr Y subsequently provided a further letter. This stated:
This is to confirm that (Mrs B) came to see me in 2017 for an episode of neck and right
upper limb pain due to C5/6 disc protrusion compressing the right C6 nerve root. Mrs (B)
made a full recovery with spinal injection therapy and physiotherapy and remained well.
(Mrs B) consulted me in January 2020 because she developed left-sided neck and left upper
limb pain secondary to a new acute C4/5 disc protrusion compressing the left C5 nerveroot, which is unrelated to (Mrs Bs) previous C5/6 disc protrusion 3 years ago. (Mrs B)
is currently undergoing treatment for her C4/5 disc protrusion. (Bold is my emphasis).
It seems to me that Mr Y clearly felt that Mrs Bs 2019/2020 C4/5 disc protrusion was a new
and acute condition. He specifically stated that this diagnosis was unrelated to Mrs Bs
previous C5/6 protrusion. And it also seems that the 2017 condition compressed Mrs Bs
right-sided C6 nerve root, while the 2019/20 condition compressed her left-sided C5 nerve
root.
On the other hand, Avivas CMO considers that Mrs Bs symptoms are related to her
previous condition and Ive thought carefully about this. Ive noted the CMOs comments that
Mrs Bs thumb tingling couldnt have been caused by the C5 left nerve. But Ive also noted
that Mr Y stated that he put Mrs Bs left hand tingling down to carpal tunnel syndrome. So it
isnt clear to me that Mr Y did specifically link this symptom with Mrs Bs new diagnosis.
Where there are two conflicting pieces of medical evidence, I need to decide which I find
most persuasive. While Ive closely considered the CMOs comments, I need to bear in mind
that Mr Y is a neurosurgeon and spinal specialist. Hes also had the opportunity to examine
and treat Mrs B at first hand, rather than completing a desk-top review. So in these
circumstances, I place more weight on Mr Ys medical evidence.
On this basis then, it doesnt currently appear that Mrs Bs 2019/20 diagnosis was pre-
existing at the time she took out the policy. Rather it appears to be a new, acute condition
which presented a couple of years after the policy started. So I dont think it was fair for
Aviva to conclude the claim was caught by the moratorium.
This means I currently think the fair outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to reconsider Mrs
Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr and Mrs B had nothing further to add.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional findings. It provided further comments from its CMO, 
which Ive summarised. He said hed provided an anatomical drawing of the nerve supply 
from the neck to the hand from the nerves emanating from the neck, which showed that Mrs 
Bs thumb sensory problem (if due to a nerve root problem) could only have been caused by 
the C6 lesion. He provided a diagram from the Mayo Clinic, together with information, which 
shows the distribution of sensory loss due to carpal tunnel syndrome. He felt this information 
showed that isolated thumb sensory loss wouldnt be possible due to carpal tunnel 
syndrome. He accepted that there were differing opinions on this case. But he stated that his 
was based solely on accepted anatomical evidence against which he suggested no 
reasonable opinion would differ.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Having done so, I still dont think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and Ill explain why.
Im grateful to Avivas CMO for his comments and the additional information hes provided. Ive carefully considered the evidence hes sent me. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I need to weigh up the available medical evidence to decide which I find 
most persuasive.
In this case, Im mindful of the fact that Mr Y is a specialist in neurosurgery and spinal 
conditions. He has had the opportunity to examine Mrs B on more than one occasion. Hes 
been able to assess results of MRI scans and discuss Mrs Bs symptoms with her during 
consultations to reach a diagnosis. So his clinical opinion is based on first-hand 
consultations with her. On the other hand, while the CMOs evidence is based on a 
respected resource, I need to bear in mind that the CMO hasnt had the chance to examine 
Mrs B and has conducted a desk-top review of her claim.
Overall then, Im still persuaded that more weight should be placed on Mr Ys expert opinion. 
This means I still find its more likely than not that Mrs Bs condition was a new and acute 
diagnosis, which post-dated the start date of the policy because thats what Mr Y appears to 
have concluded. And so Im still satisfied that the fair outcome is for Aviva to reconsider Mrs 
Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to reconsider Mr and Mrs Bs claim in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman