DRN-4441151
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to a
scam.
Miss S has used a representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly
just refer to Miss S herself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Miss S says she was the victim of a
scam. Following some difficult personal circumstances, she found a spiritual healer online
who she believed could help her.
She says she ended up sending around £180,000 to the account details she was provided
with. She now believes that this was a scam and that she has been taken advantage of in
her vulnerable state. The payments appear to have been sent to two different accounts, one
of which was held with HSBC.
Miss S sent payments towards the scam from two of her banks N and another bank D
(who are based outside the UK). I understand that following Miss S raising this with N, they
reimbursed around £116,000.
So whilst the payments from N which arrived in the HSBC account appear to have been
refunded, Miss S says she still has an outstanding loss in relation to the money sent from D.
She has also said that D havent provided her with any redress. My understanding is that the
following payments are those still in dispute.
Date arrived with HSBC Amount in GBP
8 September 2022 £1,552
14 September 2022 £25,000
14 September 2022 £9,000
TOTAL £35,552
Miss S complained to HSBC. And whilst they sympathised with her position, they didnt
believe theyd done anything wrong and declined to provide a refund. The complaint was
considered by our service and one of our Investigators recommended it should be upheld.
He thought HSBC should pay Miss S £34,000 plus 8% simple interest. Miss S accepted this
outcome, but HSBC didnt. HSBC did however make an offer to pay £17,000 plus 8%
interest as a gesture of goodwill without any admission of liability to draw matters to a close.
Miss S didnt accept this offer and as agreement couldnt be found, the complaint has been
passed to me to decide. In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising
my decision.
Miss S states that she sent £72,924 to the HSBC account from her account with N. And that
she sent £64,552 from her account with D to the same HSBC account. She also says she
sent a further £43,352 to the fraudsters account with R. The evidence from N supports that
she received around £116,000 which seems to be the total of the payments from N to HSBC
and the payments to R (and its unclear which account those came from).
Our Investigator has sought clarity around this, as wed need to be sure that Miss S still has
an outstanding loss before any award could be made. But as Im not intending to uphold this
complaint, this isnt something I need to resolve at this stage. If Im persuaded by any further
submissions to change the outcome, then I would need to see further evidence to confirm
that there is an outstanding loss.
Ive looked at the account activity on the recipient account back to 31 January 2019. And I
dont think there was anything prior to September 2022 where Id have expected HSBC to
have done more in relation to their monitoring of the account. The account had periods
where it wasnt frequently used and when it was in use, there wasnt anything suspicious or
indicative of potential fraud such that I think HSBC should have done more.
But in September 2022 the way in which the account was used changed significantly. There
were many large payments made into the account by Miss S. And much of those funds were
then either withdrawn as cash or transferred from the account. The recipient account
statements show that on 9 September 2022 there were two cash withdrawals totalling
£23,000. And that across 12 and 13 September 2022 there were four outgoing payments
which together totalled £22,000. The notes from HSBC also show that their accountholder
attempted another very large cash withdrawal on 15 September 2022, which they declined to
process. The notes record that the accountholder said at the time that the money had come
from Miss S (who was described as a business partner) and that it was to be passed on to
another business partner.
By 20 September 2022, HSBC blocked the account as they were concerned about the
activity. They tried without success to contact their accountholder to ask further questions
and they reached out to N to ask them about the incoming payments. The notes Ive seen
show that N responded on 23 September 2022 and said Customer confirmed payments as
genuine.
And on 30 September 2022 HSBC first received notification alleging that Miss S payments
into the account had been made as the result of a scam. By this point I understand that
around £2,300 remained in the account and that this was returned (presumably to N) in
November 2022.
I agree that the account activity in September 2022 was both unusual and suspicious. And I
think that HSBC ought to have acted sooner than they did to inhibit the account and to
investigate. But I dont need to make a finding as to the exact point at which that intervention
ought to have happened, as I dont think it would have ultimately made a difference to the
loss suffered by Miss S, Ill explain why.
Had HSBC intervened earlier, the best evidence of what would have happened that I have,
is what actually did happen when they did intervene in the account. Its most likely that they
would have contacted N, who would have confirmed the incoming payments from Miss S as
genuine (as they later did). And I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have reached out to D(as they are an international bank) in the same way that they did to N. But even if they had,
Ive no reason to think the response would have been different to that received from N. The
explanations given when making the cash withdrawals also suggest that whilst there were
funds remaining in the recipient account, the accountholder was prepared to engage with
HSBC and to provide an explanation to facilitate the movement of the funds.
Ive also considered the evidence provided by Miss S of the messages between her and the
scammer. These show that she had sent screenshots of her payments leaving her
account(s) to the scammer. So if HSBC had pushed for further evidence, its likely these
screenshots would have been provided. The scammer was able to convince Miss S he was
genuine and persuade her to part with a significant amount of money. I dont think its likely
that he wouldnt have been able to come up with some convincing documentary evidence to
support his entitlement to the funds that had been paid into his account.
Ultimately, I just dont think that prior to notification of fraud being received (which was on 30
September 2022), in the circumstances of this complaint, there would have been enough for
HSBC to have withheld the funds from their customer. Particularly once N would have
confirmed the payments to be genuine. And as I think its most likely that HSBC would have
had to release the funds with sufficient time for withdrawals to have been made before 30
September 2022, I cant say that HSBC not intervening sooner than they did caused the
outstanding loss.
Im also satisfied that the funds Miss S sent from D were all spent before HSBC blocked the
account. So nothing HSBC did in relation to its recovery efforts (once they had been notified)
impacted what could be returned.
Im of course sorry to hear that Miss S has an outstanding loss as a result of a scam. And
Im pleased she was able to recover a significant amount from N. But as I dont think HSBC
are responsible for failures which caused or contributed to the outstanding loss, or hindered
its recovery, Im not intending to direct that they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Im aware of HSBCs offer made as a gesture of goodwill as Ive set out above. HSBC had
indicated that if that offer wasnt accepted, they would be contesting the outcome of this
complaint. Its a matter for Miss S to take up with HSBC as to whether they are still willing to
honour the offer they previously made. But there isnt any reasonable basis upon which I can
require them to do so.
HSBC responded to say they had nothing further to add. Miss S responded with some 
comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has contested the validity of HSBC relying on what N told them about the payments. 
They say that this confirms the payments were authorised (which isnt in dispute) but doesnt 
confirm that they werent the proceeds of crime. 
Ive considered this. The email HSBC received from N came from their fraud prevention 
department. And it says Customer confirmed payments are genuine. The use of the word 
genuine rather than just authorised and the fact that the email came from the fraud 
department, who would have been aware of the possibility of scams due to the nature of 
their role, means I think it was reasonable for HSBC to rely on this. Im not persuaded it specifically only confirms authorisation, it says the payments were genuine. Im not 
considering the actions of N here and what they did or didnt do upon receipt of contact from 
HSBC. 
Ultimately, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have been reassured by and to 
have relied upon the email from N confirming the payments were genuine. I wouldnt have 
expected them to have questioned this further. So, I dont think this was a failing as Miss S 
has alleged. 
But even if Im wrong on that point and HSBC ought to have sought proof of entitlement to 
the funds Miss S sent (as she has suggested), this still wouldnt change my mind as to the 
outcome of this complaint. As Ive mentioned above, the evidence shows that Miss S was 
sending screenshots of her payment instructions to the scammer. So, if asked, its likely the 
accountholder would have shared these, evidencing a link between them and Miss S. Which 
would most likely have meant that HSBC would still have had no reasonable basis to 
withhold the funds from their customer. Especially when taken in the context of what N had 
told them. 
As Ive previously mentioned, Im sorry Miss S still has an outstanding loss, but as I dont 
think this is something HSBC are responsible for, Im not going to direct them to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman