DRN-3751136
The complaint
Miss G complains about the advice Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limiteds appointed 
representative gave to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Quilters appointed representative, rather than Quilter itself, which gave Miss G 
advice. But, as Quilter is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer to 
it throughout this decision. 
Professional representatives have helped Miss G to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Miss Gs.
What happened
Miss G was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme, having accrued 
benefits from it during two separate periods working for the employer. In 2004 the employer 
was in financial difficulties and entered liquidation. It notified its scheme members that it 
wouldnt be able to cover the full liabilities of the DB scheme. In September 2004 the 
scheme administrators sent Miss G a statement of entitlement which said that her pension 
fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  from both periods of employment  of 
around £26,854. And that, assuming the scheme was 100% funded, she would be entitled to 
a full pension of £1,283 at the schemes normal retirement age of 62, which would rise to 
around £1,469 when she turned 65. But it said that because the scheme was underfunded, 
the actual benefits were likely to be reduced to between 75% and 85% of the given figures. 
Miss G was introduced to Quilter towards the end of 2004 with a view to discussing her 
pension options. She met with it in December 2004. As well as noting the information from 
the statement of entitlement Quilter obtained an illustration from a named personal pension 
provider. That showed what a personal pension might pay Miss G if she transferred her 
pension funds from the DB scheme and invested those in the named personal pension. 
Quilter recorded that Miss Gs attitude to risk was medium. It said the growth rate required 
(the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme was approx 3.5%.
Quilter recommended that Miss G transfer her DB benefits to a named personal pension. 
Miss G signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer on 10 December 2004. The same 
day, 10 December, Quilter wrote to Miss G setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
Amongst other things it said:
Miss Gs DB scheme was underfunded and it would only pay her between 75% and 
85% of her full pension entitlement. But that amount could be subject to further 
reductions.
The DB scheme would offer an annuity guaranteed to increase with inflation of 3% or 
less. The personal pension wouldnt offer a guarantee but Quilter said a growth rate 
of 5% a year would allow Miss G to exceed the income from the DB scheme annuity. 
That calculation was based on 80% of the maximum scheme benefits being payable. 
By accepting Quilters recommendation Miss G acknowledged she was giving up a 
level of guarantee from her DB scheme. But the reduction in benefits from that 
scheme wasnt known and was likely to increase. 
Miss G complained to Quilter in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst 
other things she said:
Quilter didnt discuss the benefits Miss G would be giving up by transferring.
It didnt provide a report or analysis and as such Miss G wasnt in a position to make 
an informed decision.
The benefits from her personal pension were based on investment performance and 
didn't match her profile as a cautious investor.
She wasn't aware that she was giving up a guaranteed pension and still thought it 
would be guaranteed. 
Quilter didnt explain the risks involved in investing in a personal pension.
It didnt act in line with the regulators principles and guidance.
Quilter replied. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it had given advice to Miss G.
Miss G brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. After we provided 
Quilter with information it acknowledged that it had given Miss G advice to transfer her 
pension. But it said it thought she had brought her complaint outside of the allowable 
timescales for doing so. 
Our investigator provided her analysis of Miss Gs complaint. First the investigator said she 
believed that Miss G had brought her complaint in time. She said shed seen no evidence 
that Miss G should have brought her complaint sooner. Second the investigator looked into 
the merits of Miss Gs complaint. Amongst other things our investigator said:
Quilter didnt obtain a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report or complete a full 
fact-find. As such she said Quilter hadn't followed the regulators guidance for making 
a personal recommendation. 
Quilter recorded Miss Gs attitude to risk as medium and there was no information at 
the time to suggest that was incorrect. 
The projected growth rates at the time (known as the discount rate) and Miss Gs 
medium attitude to risk indicated that there was a realistic prospect of Miss G 
achieving higher benefits by transferring to a personal pension than she would 
receive from the DB scheme. 
The former employer was in liquidation and pension benefits would likely be reduced 
by 25%.
At that time the Government hadn't yet set up the Financial Assistance Scheme 
(FAS, which is a Government funded scheme which provides financial assistance to 
members of certain defined benefit pension schemes. Generally, eligible members 
had lost all or part of their pension following their scheme winding up due to being 
underfunded, between 1 January 1997 and 6 April 2005. FAS began operating in 
September 2005.) And there was uncertainty about whether Miss Gs DB scheme 
would enter the FAS.
The DB scheme did enter the FAS in 2013 but Quilter couldn't have known that 
would happen at the time of its advice in 2004.
Overall, our investigator thought Quilters advice to transfer was suitable.
Miss G didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other 
things she said:The regulators guidance at the time was that advising firms should start by assuming 
that transferring from a DB scheme was unsuitable.
Miss Gs full benefits weren't transferred and as such she had benefits both in a 
personal pension and also from the FAS and our investigator didnt consider this.
Quilter didnt advise Miss G that her full benefits would not be transferred or what 
would happen with the remaining funds.
The former employer was discussing matters with FAS and Quilter should have 
deferred giving advice until the issue was clear.
Given Quilters failings in the advice process Miss G wasnt given the opportunity to 
make an informed decision. She said she was simply presented with a sign and 
transfer option.
She doesn't agree with Quilters crude growth rate. She said the personal pension 
illustration shows Quilters rates are entirely incorrect.
Quilters comments that the benefits from a personal pension could be higher is 
incorrect and misleading. 
While the DB scheme was in deficit and the company in difficulty, transferring 
benefits wouldnt protect Miss G from the effects of this. 
Miss G said she would send us additional information about her FAS benefits. 
Our investigator replied. She said, amongst other things:
Even if Quilter had done everything it should have done she believed Miss G would 
have gone ahead with the transfer.
Quilter wouldnt have been aware that additional benefits would become available at 
a later date. And Quilter used the full transfer figures provided by the administrators 
in 2004. She said she would consider any further evidence about the FAS 
entitlements if that was held. 
FAS didnt begin operating until September 2005 and the DB scheme didnt enter into 
the FAS until 2013. So, it seemed reasonable for the transfer to go ahead at the time 
of the advice rather than waiting for the situation with FAS to become clearer. 
Miss G didnt send us any further information about FAS benefits. But as she didnt agree 
with our investigators assessment of the complaint it was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss G has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
Miss Gs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
In 2004 the regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether she should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
After meeting with Quilter in December 2004 Miss G signed documents to apply to transfer 
her DB scheme funds to the named personal pension. But Quilter hasnt kept the records I 
would have expected to see to show what it discussed with Miss G and whether or not it met 
all of its regulatory requirements. So theres little evidence that it did all it should have done 
when considering recommending a transfer from Miss Gs DB scheme.
Quilter did record details about her DB benefit entitlements. It also assessed that Miss G had 
a medium attitude to risk, although it hasn't documented how it arrived at that assessment. 
But given that she had 18 years to retirement and so there was scope for her invested funds 
to grow during that period and to recover from a period of poor performance, its likely she 
would have accepted that level of risk at the time. However, I would have also expected 
Quilter to gather details of Miss Gs financial circumstances and to obtain a TVAS report. But 
theres no evidence it did those things. I also would have expected Quilter to have compared 
the benefits available between the named personal pension and the DB scheme. Quilter did 
provide Miss G with a projected income illustration from the named personal pension 
provider. But I can't see that it gave Miss G a side-by-side comparison of the relevant 
benefits of both the DB scheme and the personal pension., setting out the advantages and 
disadvantages of both. And in order to advise Miss G clearly, I think it needed to do that. 
That said Ive seen that Quilter estimated that the critical yield required to match the benefits 
from the DB scheme was around 3.5%. Given that it didnt obtain a full TVAS its not clear 
how it arrived at that figure. But looking at the sums involved and the fact that Miss Gs DB 
benefits were thought to be reduced by up to 25% because of the underfunding of the 
scheme, that critical yield figure seems reasonable. However, I note that Quilter hasnt relied 
on that critical yield figure in its letter setting out its recommendation. Instead it said that a 
growth rate of around 5% would be enough to exceed the benefits from Miss Gs DB 
scheme. 
Miss G said she didnt agree with Quilters crude growth rate estimate. But she hasn't 
shown me any evidence that indicates the figure wasnt broadly accurate. And for the 
reasons I set out below I think Quilters estimated growth rate of 5% was reasonable.
At the time Quilter advised Miss G the regulator was publishing discount rates (that is the 
likely investment growth rates) to enable advising firms to calculate loss assessments in an 
industry wide pensions review. And I consider those discount rates provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when Quilter gave its advice. Quilter estimated the growth rate required to exceed the occupational 
pension at retirement was around 5% a year. This compares with the discount rate of 7.3% a 
year for 18 years to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Miss G's recorded attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. I think Miss G was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with her recorded medium 
attitude to risk. And on the basis of the financial information available at the time, the transfer 
was likely to have seemed an attractive prospect to Miss G. 
Ive noted Miss Gs comments that the personal pension illustration showed that Quilters 
estimated growth rates were entirely incorrect. But I don't agree. Quilter estimated that a 
growth rate of around 5% a year was enough to exceed the benefits from the DB scheme. 
The personal pension illustration shows Miss Gs expected yearly pension at age 62. It gives 
figures based on the regulators low, middle and high projected growth rates of 5%, 7% and 
9% respectively. Its worth noting that when showing those projected figures, the illustration 
doesn't give a single figure but instead gives the amounts in whats sometimes referred to as 
slices (because of changing pensions rules over time). So the projected yearly pension 
income is the amount when each of those slices is added together. And, when those figures 
are added together the illustration shows that the personal pension would pay her £2,294 a 
year at a growth rate of 5% and £4,033 at a 7% growth rate.
Further the DB administrators said that Miss Gs yearly pension income would be reduced 
from between 25% to 15% depending on the funding position of the scheme. That means 
her yearly pension from the DB scheme was expected to be somewhere between £961 and 
£1,090 at age 62. Those sums are significantly less than the projected income from the 
personal pension if it grew at the regulators lowest projected growth rate of 5%. And, given 
that the discount rate at that time was 7.3%, then a projected growth of 5% seems fairly 
conservative. So I don't think its fair to say that Quilters growth rate was entirely incorrect or 
misleading.
Its notable that Miss G signed the forms applying for the transfer the same day Quilter sent 
her its letter setting out the reasons for its recommendation. So, it seems likely that it wrote 
that letter after meeting with her. That indicates that, as well as not gathering full information 
about Miss Gs circumstances or obtaining a TVAS, Quilter was prepared to go ahead with 
its recommendation without setting out its reasons for that recommendation in writing. Its 
likely that Quilter would argue that it had already explained the reasons for its 
recommendation to Miss G in person. But, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off 
event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are lost 
forever. So, I think Quilter should have ensured that Miss G had had sight of all the relevant 
information in writing before proceeding and that includes the information in Quilters letter of 
10 December 2004. But, while I think Quilter certainly could have improved its advice 
process I also think its likely that Miss G would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
even if Quilters advice had been faultless.
Thats because, as I've said above, the company sponsoring the DB scheme was in 
liquidation. It couldnt afford the full liabilities of the DB scheme and the pension 
administrators had already told Miss G that her pension entitlements would be reduced. 
Although at that point they couldnt say by exactly how much. So the DB scheme was facing 
a very uncertain future. 
At that time, the Government had passed primary legislation a year earlier to introduce the 
FAS. But the regulations setting out how that law would operate werent in place and wouldnt be so for a further eight months. And in those circumstances, where little was 
known about how the scheme would operate, there was no certainty that Miss Gs DB 
scheme would be accepted into the FAS. In fact its notable that Miss Gs DB scheme didnt 
successfully enter the FAS until 2013, some eight years later. So I dont think Quilter or 
Miss G could reasonably have been expected to predict that the DB scheme would enter into 
the FAS at some point in the distant future.
Further, the DB trustees had offered Miss G a CETV of £26,854. And that sum was 
guaranteed. So, by transferring when she did and investing that money in an alternative 
fund, Miss G was ensuring that she didnt lose the entirety of her pension fund, or that it 
wasn't further reduced because her former employer couldn't afford the DB schemes 
liabilities. 
Miss Gs said that Quilter didnt arrange the transfer of the full value of her fund and she now 
has an entitlement from the FAS. She hasnt provided us with any more details of what that 
entitlement is, when it began or when she knew she would receive it. But I've seen nothing in 
the paperwork the DB scheme administrators provided that indicates they were offering 
anything other than the full value of the fund to Miss G. So I dont think that Quilter would 
have known that Miss G had any entitlement under the FAS. Thats especially the case as  
at that time  the FAS still wasnt operational. And, as I've said above, the DB scheme didnt 
enter into the FAS for another eight years. So I don't think Quilter did anything wrong in not 
realising that Miss G might have an entitlement under the FAS at some point in the future. 
Summary
At the time Quilter gave Miss G advice her DB scheme was in an uncertain and seemingly 
precarious position. The expected growth rate from a personal pension would most likely 
have indicated that Miss G would be better off by transferring than remaining in her DB 
scheme. So I think Quilters advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman