DRN-3763345
The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss N took out a credit card with Barclaycard. The card had a limit of 
£800. The limit was never increased.
 
Miss N explains that she was in a bad financial position when she took out the credit card. 
She says she had defaults and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) on her credit record and 
was relying on benefits and the income from a part-time job. She says that she was in debt 
at the time to a doorstep loan company. She says if Barclaycard had done reasonable 
checks it would have realised the lending was unsustainable for her. 
Miss N asked that Barclaycard close her account as satisfied and remove negative 
information from her credit file. 
The investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think that Barclaycard had lent to Miss N 
irresponsibly. Miss N disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss N s complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss N 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Miss N s borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
Barclaycard has provided the results of the checks it did when it agreed Miss Ns application.  
I can see from this that Miss N had only three external accounts, each with a small balance 
outstanding. Two of these were loans, with a total balance of £423 between them, and the 
third was a mail order account with £324 outstanding.
 
The credit checks didnt show any recent CCJs or other adverse information. Miss N has 
provided evidence that she had a CCJ in 2016. But this was over three years before her 
Barclaycard application and there was no evidence to suggest to Barclaycard that she was 
facing current difficulties.
Barclaycard asked Miss N about her income and expenditure. Miss N declared an income of 
£25,668 per annum and committed expenditure of £1,100 per month; this meant she had a 
disposable income of around £430 a month. Miss N has later explained that she was on 
statutory sick pay at the time of her application, but I dont think this means that the checks 
Barclaycard did at the time werent adequate. It was entitled to rely on the income Miss N 
had declared.
I asked both parties for more information. The credit check data Barclaycard provided 
indicated that Miss N had more mail order accounts than on first appearances. Barclaycard 
responded explaining that this was an error. As I havent seen any other information to 
indicate there were 27 mail order accounts (and Miss N hasnt suggested there was) I accept 
Barclaycards explanation.
Miss N has said that she held three doorstep loans at the time, totalling £2,371. These dont 
appear on the credit checks Barclaycard received from TransUnion, its data provider. Miss N 
has provided screenshots of the existence of these loans at the time of her application but 
hasnt provided the full credit report that I requested. The screenshots provided dont clearly 
link the doorstep loans to Miss N. Miss N says that when the provider became insolvent the 
loans were written off, but that doesnt explain why they werent in the reported data at the 
time of her application. It may be that the loan provider didnt report the loans to her credit 
file, but this would be very unusual. And in that case, I dont think its reasonable to hold 
Barclaycard accountable for another lenders shortcomings. I also remind myself that Miss N 
declared repayments of only £32 a month for loans when she provided details of her 
expenditure to Barclaycard.
 
On the balance of probabilities, which is the test I have to apply,  I think Barclaycard 
obtained a reasonable amount of information about Miss N and her ability to repay and there 
was nothing to suggest to Barclaycard that Miss N wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the 
credit it provided. So, while I know this will be disappointing for Miss N, I dont think Miss N 
lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard did wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint, so it follows that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, doesnt have to do anything futher.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman