DRN-1697571
 
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim under 
their buildings insurance for storm damage to their garage roof. For ease, I will refer only to 
Mr G throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his buildings insurance for damage to the flat felt roof of his 
garage. Water had entered his property and he thought that a storm had caused the 
damage. UKI sent an agent to his house to take photos of the roof so it could assess the 
damage. Its property insurance advisor thought the damage was due to wear and tear 
because there was evidence of damp, rot and water ingress not consistent with storm 
damage. UKI declined the claim.
Mr G complained to UKI because the agent hadnt gone onto his roof and he thought the 
agent hadnt photographed the damage part. UKI pointed out that it had told Mr G during his 
claim call that the agent wouldnt go onto the roof. It offered to send another agent who 
would go onto the roof but Mr G declined the offer. 
Mr G had his roof repaired and UKI issued its final response confirming that it declined his 
claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered whether there had been a 
storm, whether the damage was typical of that caused by a storm and whether it couldve 
been caused by something else. Having looked at weather reports in the weeks leading up 
to the claim, she thought it was possible that there had been a storm. She also thought the 
damage could be typical of that caused by a storm. However, based on the evidence 
provided by both Mr G and UKI, she thought it more likely that a storm had highlighted 
existing damage caused by wear and tear.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for copies of the photos UKI had provided as evidence. Our 
investigator sent the photos to Mr G but he remained dissatisfied with her view. He said a 
builder had looked at his roof and told him the damage was caused by rain. Our investigator 
reconsidered her view taking into account the additional information but she didnt think Mr 
Gs evidence proved that the damage was caused by a one off, insured event. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise this will disappoint Mr G, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.Mr G thinks a storm damaged his garage roof but he hasnt linked it to a specific date. 
Neither party disputes the possibility that there was a storm in the weeks leading up to his 
claim, or that water ingress is typical of storm damage. The issue here is whether a storm is 
likely to have caused the damage - or simply highlighted an already damaged roof - and 
whether UKI fairly declined Mr Gs claim.
Im satisfied that UKI responded to his claim properly by sending an agent to photograph the 
damage. While that visit didnt meet Mr Gs expectations  the agent didnt go onto his roof - 
UKI did what it said it was going to do. Based on the photos, UKI decided it was unlikely that 
a single storm event caused the damage. Thats because the damage was consistent with 
deterioration due to ongoing weather conditions and general wear and tear, such as rot. The 
insurance policy specifically excludes this:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Maintenance and routine decoration
Loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration
Reduction in value.
Damage caused by rot, fungus 
 
A flat roof has a limited lifespan of around 15 years. Mr G confirmed that hed been in the 
property for three years and he wasnt aware of the flat roof being repaired or replaced 
before that. So it was reasonable for UKI to think there was some element of wear and tear.
UKI offered to send another agent who would access the roof. Mr G declined the offer. That 
wouldve been his opportunity to make sure UKI saw the damage and reassessed his claim. 
Its impossible to say what the outcome wouldve been but, because Mr G rejected the offer 
of a second visit, there was no reason for UKI to change its decision to decline his claim. Mr 
G had his roof repaired so its no longer an option. I dont think its unreasonable that UKI 
maintained its decision in the absence of any further investigation.
Mr G said a builder told him the damage to his roof was caused by rain. I dont think this 
point is necessarily disputed. What is unclear is whether the rain entered the property as the 
result of a single event and Mr G hasnt been able to demonstrate that it did.  
So, having looked at the overall circumstances, I think UKI acted fairly in declining Mr Gs 
claim because the evidence didnt support his view that a single insured event damaged his 
roof. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman