DRN-4468785
The complaint
Miss B complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant) handling of her 
claim, under her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
I should say at the outset, that both parties are aware of the full facts of this complaint, so I 
will outline the salient points below. 
Miss Bs phone was stolen, and she made a claim. Assurant accepted the claim and took the 
excess payment of £100. It sent her a replacement phone. But the phone didnt arrive until 
the day after Miss B said she had been told by Assurant that it would. So, she raised a 
complaint. 
Miss B said that the phone that she received was faulty and she made a further complaint to 
Assurant regarding this. Assurant agreed to send another phone and arranged for the phone 
to be collected and another one delivered on 9 August 2023. But on 5 August 2023, the 
swap took place, albeit earlier than had been arranged. 
Miss B said that she had to contact Assurant again, as the replacement phone it had sent 
was locked to another network. She told Assurant that she had managed to get the phone 
unlocked and sent it a report that confirmed that the phone was locked to another network. 
Miss B complained about this as well.
In its final response, Assurant apologised and acknowledged the poor handling of Miss Bs 
claim. It accepted that it had sent out a faulty phone, sent an incorrect phone and that Miss B 
had been given differing information by its agents, particularly regarding the delivery. So, 
they offered a doorstop exchange for the locked phone and offered £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused. 
Miss B remained unhappy with the outcome, not least as she said she had to take time off 
work, the inconvenience of the entire incident and she wanted around £300 compensation 
for the trouble and upset this caused. As she was given her referral rights, she referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that it was clear that there had been handling issues during the claims process. But 
Assurant had rectified those issues by either replacing the faulty handset, offering a doorstop 
replacement, offering to reimburse any costs that Miss B incurred as a result of unlocking the 
handset. As well as offering compensation of £100, which she thought was fair. 
Assurant accepted the view. Miss B did not. She said that Assurant hadnt quality controlled 
the phones it had sent out. It was correct they offered a phone swap, but as she had taken 
time off of work, she would have had to have taken more time off of work to accommodate 
the swap. She said that after she had been on the phone with her network provider for 45 
minutes, they were unable to unlock the phone. She felt that Assurants agents were 
unprofessional. She said that as a result she had to take out a new mobile phone contract 
and had sold the replacement phone from Assurant. She didnt think that the £100 
compensation was adequate. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss B, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
both parties have provided. Miss B has raised several issues regarding the complaint the 
first of which is that Assurant hadnt quality controlled the devices that it had sent to her. 
I reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what the obligations were for both parties. 
After a claim is made, and it is accepted by Assurant, the policy provides that a replacement 
phone will be re-conditioned or a re-manufactured device. It is not a new for old type policy. 
However, the policy terms and conditions further explain the following: 
Before we send any device to settle a claim, we carry out a comprehensive checking 
process to make sure they are in full working order. All devices will come with a 1-year 
warranty.
As Miss B said that she didnt think the devices were quality checked before they left 
Assurant, I asked Assurant specifically about this. It explained that it didnt provide quality 
check reports for the devices in its stock that pass, reports would only be provided if a device 
fails its check. 
Further, it states that as the devices were accepted as stock, it was satisfied that the devices 
passed quality checks and it confirmed that the devices were checked to the manufacturers 
specifications. 
Although Miss B said that she felt that no quality control had taken place. Miss B hasnt 
provided enough evidence to support her position. And as Assurant has confirmed that 
quality checks were conducted, Im persuaded that they took place. Further, as per the 
policy terms and conditions, the devices came with a warranty, if there were any issues. And 
Im satisfied that Miss B was advised of this. In addition, Assurant accepted that the first 
phone wasnt fit for purpose, 
Miss B said that she had already taken time off work in order to have the first phone 
delivered and she was unable to take further time off to accommodate the phone swap. 
From the evidence, Miss B had informed Assurant that on the day she believed the phone 
would be delivered to her, she hadnt taken time off but had a day off. 
I appreciate that Miss B felt a level of inconvenience having to wait around for a phone to be 
delivered. But having reviewed the call recordings, the first two agents informed Miss B that 
delivery of the phone could take between one  three working days, and that she may get 
the phone, the next working day, but this wasnt guaranteed. In any event, Assurant 
acknowledged this as well. Miss B said that she spent 45 minutes on the phone to her network provider, trying to get the 
second replacement phone unlocked. Although I note that she said that her network provider 
was unsuccessful at unlocking the phone, she wrote a complaint email in which she 
confirmed that the phone was unlocked:
 Luckily Ive managed to unlock this by speaking to (network provider) for 45 mins. 
Further, I havent seen any evidence of Miss B having been charged to have the phone 
unlocked. Assurant has indicated that it would reimburse any costs that Miss B might have 
incurred, which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
Miss B also said that the agents whom she spoke to were unprofessional. I have listened to 
all the call recordings as this is the best evidence to assess what and how things were said. I 
didnt find that any of the agents where unprofessional during the conversations with Miss B. 
But Assurant had found that some of the information that Miss B was given wasnt as clear 
as it could have been. And it recognised this error as well. 
I understand that Miss B has since sold the second replacement phone. She said that she 
had now obtained a new contract and would like this to be taken into consideration. 
Ive carefully considered this, and although Assurant accepted that there were failings in the 
handling of Miss Bs claim, I find that it did offer a further phone swap. And it offered, as an 
alternative, to pay for the second phone to be unlocked. 
Miss B (as previously mentioned) didnt appear to have been charged for the phone to be 
unlocked. And wouldnt accommodate a phone swap, even though Assurant advised that 
she could have the phone swapped at any alternative address. I think that the offers 
Assurant made were reasonable and what we wouldve expected it to have done. 
There is no doubt that there were errors made by Assurant during the claims process. And 
Im pleased that Assurant recognised those errors. Assurant paid Miss B £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset it caused. 
I understand that Miss B would like an increased amount of compensation. So, Ive reviewed 
our strict guidelines of compensation awards. I note that from report of the theft of the phone 
until Assurant settled the claim was around five days. I also note that Assurant has 
apologised for the mistakes it made. I agree that it was right for Assurant to recognise its 
error. And  I also think the amount of compensation paid, is in line with our guidelines, so I 
wont be asking Assurant to increase this further. 
I acknowledge Miss Bs strength of feeling about this complaint. But, in the overall 
circumstances, I havent seen enough evidence to show that Assurant acted unfairly. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman