DRN-4217294
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service hes received from OANDA Europe Limited. Hes unhappy 
that he had to partially close an open position due to system issues which meant he was 
unable to fund his account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr J had an open USD/JPY position with OANDA and he tried to fund his account on 
2 March 2023 in order to avoid a potential margin call.
He was unable to fund the account due to an issue with OANDAs systems, so he 
partially closed his position which resulted in a loss of £23.73.
OANDA apologised to Mr J for the inconvenience hed faced and compensated him 
with £24.79 for the loss hed suffered.
Mr J asked us to look into the matter. He thought that he hadnt been correctly 
compensated for his loss or for the stress hed suffered. He explained that he had an 
underlying health condition which had been exacerbated by the issue and had 
caused him significant stress.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and thought that OANDA should 
compensate Mr J with £250 for the distress and discomfort theyd caused him.
OANDA didnt accept the investigators findings as they thought that £100 was fair 
compensation in the circumstances. They queried if Mr J had provided any medical 
evidence to substantiate his claim and explained that theyd sought medical guidance 
and had been told that Mr Js condition could have been triggered by a variety of 
catalysts.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion and as theres been no agreement 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OANDA have accepted that their system issues prevented Mr J from funding his account so 
what I need to determine is fair compensation for the financial loss and distress he suffered. 
From what Ive seen OANDA have compensated Mr J fairly for his financial loss, so Im 
satisfied that they dont need to do any more in respect of that point. 
Ive then gone on to consider the distress Mr J suffered. The system issue preventing 
funding of accounts was resolved fairly quickly - within eight hours of it occurring - so I dont 
think its unreasonable to suggest that the impact on the day wasnt too severe for Mr J. 
However, I must also take into account the subsequent impact the issue had on him. 
Hes provided detailed testimony of the issues he faced and details of his medical records. 
Hes explained that he had a small flare up in January 2023 but the episode in March 2023 
was the worst hed experienced in six years.
His medical records show a history of the medication he takes to manage his condition. 
From what Ive seen he ordered the medication on 30 May 2022, 27 January 2023 and 14 
April 2023. I think the difference between the gaps when the medication was ordered - 
around eight months between May 2022 and January 2023 but only two and half months 
between January 2023 and April 2023 - adds weight to Mr Js claim that stress caused by 
not being able to fund his account caused the episode. 
I appreciate the comments OANDA have made about the number of potential reasons 
behind the flare up, but I think the available evidence - Mr Js testimony and medical records 
- shows it is more likely than not that it was caused by the stress Mr J experienced from the 
system issue. Therefore, I think it is fair that OANDA compensate Mr J for the distress he 
suffered.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr J in light of the distress he suffered as a result of being 
unable to fund his account, I think it would be fair and reasonable for OANDA to pay him 
£250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint. OANDA 
Europe Limited should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman