DRN-3327145
The complaint
Mr S complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined his pet 
insurance claim and applied an exclusion for a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Mr Ss pet had to go into an animal hospital for treatment. A diagnosis of gastroenteritis was 
made after a night of monitoring. And Mr S paid the hospitalisation fees expecting his pet 
insurer would refund him. But Casualty declined the claim citing a pre-existing condition 
because the pet had had a couple of instances of diarrhoea about two years earlier. Mr S 
said his vet believed that wasnt unusual for a young animal and shouldnt be treated as a 
pre-existing condition. So Mr S would like Casualty to reimburse him for the treatment. 
Casualty said the pet insurance policy didnt provide cover if a condition was pre-existing or 
had showed signs and symptoms prior to the policy starting. It could see Mr Ss pet had 
been seen by the vet a few weeks before the policy started with clinical signs of diarrhoea. 
And in 2021 the pet had presented with vomiting and diarrhoea before treatment took place 
for gastroenteritis. 
Having considered the pets clinical history Casualty felt it confirmed thered been clinical 
signs and symptoms of diarrhoea before the policy started. Mr S hadnt disclosed the 
condition when taking out the policy. And if he had Casualty wouldve added an 
endorsement to the policy excluding cover on all claims with respect to the digestive system. 
Casualty said Mr S had made a careless qualifying misrepresentation when taking out his 
policy. And that meant it could retrospectively add an exclusion to the policy. And it felt itd 
declined the claim correctly.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She explained the relevant law (CIDRA) meant a 
consumer needed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out 
an insurance policy. And if they didnt the insurer could take certain actions as long as the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Our investigator said Mr S had answered no to the question do you want to cover any pre-
existing medical condition when taking out the policy. Shed asked Casualty for evidence of 
the underwriting criteria to show it wouldve applied an exclusion if Mr S had disclosed the 
condition. And based on what shed seen she thought Casualtys decision to treat Mr Ss 
misrepresentation as a qualifying one was fair and reasonable. Our investigator felt Casualty 
had acted in line with CIDRA and so she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. Hed been advised by the vet that it was normal for a 
puppy facing a change of environment or food to have those sorts of symptoms. And his pet 
had never shown any other symptoms of vomiting or diarrhoea that would concern him or his 
vet before the hospital stay in September 2021. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out the pet insurance on the understanding it would cover his pet for illness. He 
says the vet confirmed there was no pre-existing medical conditions. So he thought he was 
covered for any problems his pet might develop.
So I can understand his upset when Casualty said hed made a careless misrepresentation 
and applied an exclusion to the policy meaning any treatment for digestive system problems 
wouldnt be covered. 
When a consumer takes out or renews an insurance policy theyll be asked various 
questions about what they want to cover. And theyll be asked to confirm the information 
provided and held by the insurer is correct. In simple terms this helps the insurer decide how 
likely it is the consumer will make a claim and what premium to charge. If an insurer finds out 
about something that wasnt disclosed it may decide to add an exclusion, backdated to the 
start of the policy. 
My role here is to decide whether Casualty was entitled to decline Mr Ss claim for a pre-
existing condition and apply a retrospective endorsement to the policy. In reviewing this 
complaint, Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of a consumer when entering into an insurance 
contract and the remedies available to an insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil their obligations 
if it can show they made what the Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA Mr S had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation on 
application and at each renewal. If Mr S made a misrepresentation it is then for Casualty to 
show this was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this it needs to show he didnt take 
reasonable care and Casualty wouldnt have offered the cover if he hadnt made the 
misrepresentation - or that it wouldve done so on different terms. 
When Mr S applied online in 2019 he was asked if he wanted to cover any pre-existing 
medical conditions. And there was explanatory information saying that a pre-existing 
condition was any illness, injury, symptom or sign of a condition that happened before your 
policy begins.
Mr S replied no to the question. He says his vet hadnt expressed any concerns when he 
treated his pet a few weeks before he took out the pet insurance cover. Hed been told the 
vomiting and diarrhoea werent unusual. But the symptoms had occurred only a few weeks 
before Mr S applied for the policy. And I think its reasonable to say Mr S was aware his pet 
had recently received treatment for diarrhoea-related symptoms.
One of the considerations under CIDRA is how clear the question the consumer was asked 
was. I think the question was clearly put and if Mr S was uncertain if he needed to check 
before making the declaration. The underwriters have shown if Mr S had disclosed the pre-
existing conditions for diarrhoea it wouldnt have offered insurance on the same terms. 
The underwriting criteria confirms clinical signs of diarrhoea or vomiting wouldve led to an 
exclusion relating to the digestive system. So Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. 
Based on what Ive seen I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation and Casualty has 
the right to apply a retrospective exclusion to the policy.The general exclusions section of the pet insurance policy states that if Casualty is made 
aware of any pre-existing conditions at the time of a claim, these pre-existing conditions will 
not be covered and it reserves the right add a relevant endorsement(s) to the policy in 
respect of these pre-existing conditions. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think Casualty has acted in line with 
CIDRA and the terms of the pet insurance policy. I havent found that Casualty made any 
error in applying the exclusion to Mr Ss pet insurance policy and declining his claim. I think 
Casualty acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do any 
more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman