DRN-3239217
The complaint
Mr Q1, Mrs Q and Mr Q2 complain that Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr Q1 and Mrs Q booked a trip abroad for themselves, Mr Q2 and their 
family  departing in August 2020. They took out a single trip travel insurance policy insured 
through Ageas to cover this travel.
One of their children has a number of pre-existing medical conditions and these were 
declared to Ageas and cover was agreed.
Just prior to the date of travel, their GP advised them not to travel. This was because their 
child was considered highly susceptible to severe infection due to the medication he takes 
and so travel during the global pandemic was not recommended. The trip was cancelled, 
and a claim was submitted to Ageas for the cost of the airline tickets.
Ageas considered the claim but refused to pay. It said that the cause of the cancellation of 
the trip didnt fall within one of the reasons covered under the policy. Ageas said that cover 
for cancellation due to an illness was only provided if it related to an exacerbation of an 
existing illness or the onset of a new medical condition which prevented travel. Ageas said 
that, if it were not for the Coronavirus pandemic, the travel would have continued as planned 
 and the pandemic was not a listed covered reason for cancellation. 
Mr Q1 and Mrs Q were unhappy with this response and complained to Ageas. They then 
brought their complaint to this service. They said it was a new illness which had caused the 
cancellation  their childs immunity suppression which made him susceptible to infection - 
and this prevented the travel. Mr Q1 and Mrs Q said that, as a result of this new information, 
they wouldnt have travelled even if there wasnt a pandemic.
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought the complaint should be upheld. He 
found that it was a new condition which had caused the cancellation  and so this should be 
considered as a covered reason under the cancellation section of the policy. He pointed out 
that the policy also didnt provide cover for the trip if they had travelled against medical 
advice and so he said it was unfair if neither the cancellation of the trip nor the travel if they 
went ahead would be covered. He recommended Ageas paid the claim.
Mr Q1, Mrs Q and Mr Q2 agreed with our investigator but Ageas didnt. As no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Q1, Mrs Q and Mr Q2s 
complaint.
The policy held includes terms and conditions relating to the cancellation cover provided. 
The relevant parts are as follows:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you 
cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early 
during the period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a 
close relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during 
your trip; or
2.you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as 
an expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to 
attend court); or
3.your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was 
booked; or
4.your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary 
at your home; or
6.you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the 
Armed Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government 
employee being ordered to return to duty. 
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Ageas has said it doesnt provide cover for receiving medical advice not to travel if it doesnt 
relate to an exacerbation of a pre-existing condition or the onset of a new illness. Looking at 
the policy terms, I can see that cancellation due to receiving medical advice against travel 
isnt listed as a covered reason to claim. So, if it was the case that Mr Q1 and Mrs Q had 
simply received medical advice not to travel due to their childs long standing condition then I 
think it is unlikely the claim would be covered by the terms of their contract.
However, I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and 
the relevant law. 
Ive seen the correspondence from their doctor which suggests they were advised against 
travel following the results of a blood test which showed that Mr Q1 and Mrs Qs child was 
immunosuppressed  meaning he is highly susceptible to severe infection. And therefore, it 
wasnt advisable for him to travel during the pandemic. It isnt clear from the medical 
information if he has always suffered from this immunosuppression, but this has only 
recently been recognised - or if this is a change to his pre-existing condition. 
 Ive thought about this carefully and, when taking into account what the doctor has said, I 
think it is fair to say that there has been a change in what is known about his health and it is 
reasonable to consider this as a new illness which caused the cancellation of the trip, related 
to a condition that was declared and accepted by Ageas. Im therefore persuaded that this is 
a covered reason for cancelling the trip as per the policy terms and conditions.
But in any event, Im also aware that on the first page of the policy wording, under the title 
Important health requirements for all insured persons it states the following:
3. You must not travel against medical advice (or would be travelling against medical 
advice had you sought medical advice prior to travel) or with the intention of obtaining 
medical treatment or consultation abroad.
There may be some occasions where I wouldnt think that applying a strict interpretation of 
these policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome, based on the individual 
circumstances of a case. And, having considered the specific circumstances of this particular 
situation, I think this is the case. Ill explain why.
It is clear from the doctors letter that, had they travelled abroad as intended, Mr Q1, Mrs Q 
and their family would have been travelling against medical advice. In that case, the term 
that Ive outlined above means its unlikely they would have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. And the cancellation of a holiday due to receiving medical advice 
against travel also isnt included as a covered reason under the policy.
So even if I didnt think that Mr Q1 and Mrs Qs childs illness met the criteria to claim under 
the cancellation section, this term means that effectively, Mr Q1, Mrs Q and their family were 
unlikely to be covered if they cancelled the trip, but alternatively, if they had chosen to travel 
as planned and not lose out on the costs of the trip, they wouldnt have been covered at all. 
In my view, this isnt fair or reasonable. So, Im satisfied Ageas needs to do more on this 
occasion.
Putting things right
Ageas needs to do the following:
pay the claim for the unused airline tickets  taking into account any deduction for 
limits or policy excesses as detailed in the policy terms and conditions, if applicable;
pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr Q1 and Mrs Q how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
As detailed above, I uphold this complaint.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to put things right as shown. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q1, Mr Q2 and 
Mrs Q to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 Jenny Giles
Ombudsman