DRN-2072412
The complaint
F, a business, complains that ERGO UK Specialty Limited trading as ERGO UK (ERGO) 
declined a claim on its commercial property insurance.
What happened
At the end of March 2019, Fs tenants were evicted by court order and vacated the property. 
F notified its insurance broker that the property would be unoccupied. At the beginning of 
April 2019, the property was attended so it could be checked, and it was found that there 
had been forced entry and malicious damage. F tried to claim on its commercial property 
insurance with ERGO.
ERGO declined the claim stating that once a property was unoccupied, cover became 
limited to only five perils: fire, lightening, aircraft, explosion and earthquake. As the damage 
hadnt been caused by any of these, ERGO said the damage wasnt covered under the 
policy.
Fs representatives disagree with this. The say that there is an exclusion in the policy which 
means that the property isnt considered unoccupied for the first thirty days  and that 
therefore, the policy is ambiguous, and the claim should be covered.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said the terms of 
the policy werent ambiguous, and she didnt think ERGO acted unfairly in declining the 
claim, particularly as this was a commercial policy and the onus was on F to query any terms 
it was unsure of. F disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The policy states 
Unoccupied shall mean any Building or part thereof that is:
(i) Not in active use and/or
(ii) Untenanted and/or
(iii) Empty, void, vacant or disused and/or
(iv) Awaiting refurbishment, redevelopment, renovation or demolition
It isnt in dispute that the damage to the property occurred after the previous tenants had 
been evicted  and sometime in the following eight days. So Im satisfied that the property 
was unoccupied at the time of the damage.
The policy schedule, which sets out the specific conditions and endorsements for this policy 
says that Cover in respect of Unoccupied Buildings is restricted to Perils A: Fire, B: 
Lightning, C: Aircraft, D: Explosion and E: Earthquake. Therefore, I think its clear that as 
the property was unoccupied at the time of the damage, the cover provided by ERGO was 
restricted to the above perils.
Fs representatives have said that the policy only restricts cover for unoccupied properties 
after 30 consecutive days in line with the policy booklet and therefore the policy is 
ambiguous. But I dont agree. While the policy booklet does mention the exclusion relating to 
30 consecutive days, it also states that it will only cover perils if shown as operative in the 
schedule. In this specific policy, the schedule is clear that once a property is unoccupied, 
the cover is restricted to the five perils listed above. And as the damage to the property 
wasnt caused by any of these five perils, I dont think ERGO has acted unfairly in declining 
this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman