DRN-2864446
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd (Bastion) declined a claim under her Home 
Emergency Policy.
Mrs S is represented by Mr S, who has dealt with the claim and complaint on her behalf.
  
What happened
Mr S contacted Bastion because there was no water supply to Mrs S downstairs bathroom. 
Bastion declined the claim because it understood there was no damage to the property and 
no health risk to Mrs S. It didnt consider this amounted to an emergency under the policy. It 
also said cover was limited to problems within the home, which it didnt think was the case 
here, and noted Mrs S had a second bathroom which was still working.
Three days later, Mr S arranged for a pipe to be repaired which restored the water flow. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr S to find out more about what had happened. In summary:
A water pipe in the downstairs bathroom had frozen, a seal had broken, and a leak 
had begun.
Mrs S is elderly and finds it very difficult to use the stairs.
The downstairs bathroom is purpose built for her to access and use easily. Its 
effectively an extension to the main house, accessed via the living room.
Theres a second bathroom upstairs which its impractical for Mrs S to use during the 
day  and which doesnt have an easily accessible shower facility.
Based on this, our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the lack of water flow to the 
downstairs bathroom was an emergency in Mrs S circumstances. He recommended Bastion 
reimburse the £40 paid to fix the problem, plus interest. He also recommended Bastion pay 
Mrs S £100 compensation to recognise the inconvenience and upset it caused her by 
refusing to deal with the claim.
Bastion said it hadnt been aware of a leak or the other information the investigator had 
discovered and thought its decision had been correct based on the information known at the 
time. Our investigator thought Bastion should have asked more questions to ensure it fully 
understand the situation before declining the claim. It disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy says that Bastion will assist her to stop an: Emergency which has arisen from 
the sudden and unexpected failure of, or damage to, the plumbing and/or drainage system 
within the Home which has or may result in water damage to the Home.
The policy defines Emergency as: a sudden and unexpected event which if not dealt with, 
would:
render the home unsafe or insecure; or
damage or cause further damage to the home; or
cause personal risk to You.
Bastion declined the claim because it didnt think Mrs S circumstances amounted to an 
emergency. Its understanding of her situation was formed during a call with Mr S, which Ive 
listened to. Im not persuaded the questions Bastion asked were clear, thorough or open 
enough to gain a full understanding of what happened. As a result, Bastion reached a 
conclusion based on limited information that didnt tell the full story.
For example, Bastion asked whether Mrs S was disabled. When Mr S said no, it took that to 
mean she wasnt vulnerable. In my view a disability is one of many things that could amount 
to vulnerability in an emergency. And the policy cover is based on personal risk, which I 
think is much broader than disability. But when Mr S said Mrs S was vulnerable, elderly, 
lived on her own and couldnt use the stairs, Bastion didnt seek any further information or 
reconsider its position. It merely maintained the claim should be declined.
Bastion says there isnt much time for its call handlers to discuss the circumstances because 
its a home emergency policy. Bastion has a duty to consider claims fairly and Im not 
satisfied its approach fulfilled that duty in this case. And our investigator was able to find out 
the information above in a matter of minutes.
In its response to our investigators recommendations, Bastion hasnt questioned that the 
information known now about Mrs S circumstances means the claim should have been 
accepted as an emergency  or that the investigators suggested remedy is a fair one. 
Bastion thinks it would be unfair for us to make a decision based on the information available 
now, rather than what it knew at the time.
Whilst Baston made its decision to decline the claim on limited information, Im satisfied the 
nature of its questions, and the way it interpreted Mr S answers, contributed to this. As a 
result, I think it would be fair to consider what Bastion would have known had it handled the 
claim fairly by asking more appropriate questions. And I think thats likely to be similar to the 
information the investigator found out.
Im satisfied the circumstances amounted to an emergency because the leak was likely to 
cause damage and the situation presented a personal risk to Mrs S. And the bathroom was 
part of the home as its an extension that can be accessed without going outside.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Mrs S claim should have been covered under the policy. 
And its therefore appropriate for Bastion to reimburse the £40 paid to fix the leaking pipe 
and restore water to the bathroom, plus 8% simple interest from the date the claim was 
made to the date Bastion makes the claim settlement payment.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs S was caused inconvenience and upset as a result of 
the claim being unfairly declined. Responses to an emergency involving a vulnerable person 
such as Mrs S tend to be prioritised by insurers. And the repair seems to have been fairly 
straightforward. So I think its likely Bastion would have been able to arrange the repair 
swiftly, and reduced the amount of time Mrs S was unable to use her purpose-built 
bathroom. That would have reduced her distress and discomfort.
For these reasons, Im satisfied our investigators recommendation for £100 compensation 
would be a fair and reasonable way to recognise the unnecessary inconvenience and upset 
Bastion caused Mrs S.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to:
Pay £40 to settle the claim.
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on the £40 settlement, from the date of claim 
until the date Bastion settles it.
Pay £100 compensation.
*If Bastion considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman