DRN-2312772
The complaint
 Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around five years old and had completed about 32,500 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if, after only a couple of months, it wasnt possible to engage 
gears when the engine was running; as was the case here. 
Whilst MotoNovo are responsible for the quality of the car at the point of supply they are not 
necessarily responsible for faults that happen subsequently. The relevant legislation says 
that if a fault arises within the first six months of ownership it is for the business to 
demonstrate the fault was not present when the car was supplied. MotoNovo say that they 
were deprived of that opportunity as Mr S had the car fixed before they had a chance to 
investigate.
But it seems MotoNovo had not given Mr S any option but to have the car repaired. They 
had not provided a courtesy car and the car Mr S was financing through them was not 
driveable.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to arrange the repair of the car. It was 
completed at a franchised dealership and I think its fair to suggest a franchised dealership 
would have a high level of expertise in this make of car. Their diagnosis of the issues with 
the vehicle would therefore be likely to be the same as a diagnosis completed by any 
independent expert that may have been appointed.
The dealership identified faults with the flywheel, clutch and the slave cylinder which all 
needed replacing. Mr S had completed less than 2,000 miles in the car at that point and it 
had only been in his possession for a couple of months. I think its therefore likely that those 
issues were developing at the point the car was supplied to him.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business an opportunity to repair the car and Ive therefore 
considered whether MotoNovo had used that opportunity up when the master cylinder was 
replaced, and the repair proved unsuccessful.
That may have been the case and that could have led me to consider whether MotoNovo 
should allow Mr S an opportunity to reject the vehicle and hand it back to them. But here I 
think that would be a disproportionate response. I say that because the car has now been 
repaired and Ive not seen any suggestion it isnt now functioning correctly. It was Mr Ss 
choice to have the vehicle repaired and had he waited for MotoNovo to complete an 
inspection before authorising the work I think that would have been a more appropriate point 
at which to consider rejection of the car and termination of the finance agreement.
So, I think the most proportionate resolution would be for MotoNovo to refund the repair 
costs Mr S had to pay. These are evidenced in the invoice he has supplied from 6 January 
2020.
They should add interest to that refund as Mr S has been deprived of that money. 
Its clear Mr S had been inconvenienced by these matters. He was without his car for several 
weeks and has had to progress his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay him £150 
compensation.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund the repair costs Mr S has paid and has evidenced in the invoice of 6 January 
2020. Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from 6 January 2020 to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr S £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman