DRN-2358662
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA, which renews on 10 April each year. 
His policy included cover for pre-existing medical conditions and was intended to provide 
him with authorised access to private medical treatment while the policy was in force. Mr Ps 
policy included an annual excess of £500, which meant he paid a reduced overall premium. 
During February 2020, Mr P began to claim for an acute knee problem and his treating 
doctor considered that he might need surgery. Mr P said that his doctor thought the surgery 
could likely be carried out before the policy renewal, meaning that Mr P wouldnt incur 
another £500 excess charge. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all non-
essential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed 
by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to NHS. BUPA let Mr P 
know that benefits under his policy would be limited for a temporary period while private 
facilities assisted the NHS, as non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised.
Mr P paid excess fees of £375 on 2 March 2020 and £125 on 12 March 2020, which 
represented his total payable excess for the 2019-20 policy year. Ultimately, his knee 
surgery was booked in and pre-authorised by BUPA on 8 April 2020  two days before the 
policy was due to renew. The surgery didnt take place before renewal, due to the impact of 
Covid-19. And so BUPA told Mr P that hed need to pay the annual £500 excess for this 
surgery under the terms of the new policy contract when it took place. 
Mr P was unhappy with BUPAs position and he complained. He felt it was unfair for BUPA 
to apply the new £500 annual excess to surgery which wouldve been carried out during the 
2019-20 policy year, but for Covid-19. He also didnt feel he should have to pay his monthly 
premium of around £250 when BUPA wasnt providing a service. 
BUPA maintained that Mr P would need to pay a new annual excess for his surgery. And it 
told him that it wasnt possible to refund monthly premiums or pause the policy.  But it told 
him that it was committed to passing back any exceptional financial benefit to its members  
which could be through a rebate, or other means. And it said that once things returned to 
normal, it would commission an independent review to work out the fairest way to do this. 
Mr P was unhappy with how BUPA had administered his policy, so he asked us to look into 
his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy 
terms and conditions allowed for a premium refund. And he felt the policy terms made it 
clear that a new annual excess applied at the beginning of each policy year. This meant that 
a policyholder may need to pay an excess twice during the same course of treatment, if it 
began in one policy year and continued into another. While he appreciated that Mr P felt the 
policy hadnt provided the cover hed expected it to, he thought Mr P did have access to 
some benefits under the policy. And BUPA had also introduced some remote services. He 
was persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to review the overall impact of Covid-19 and 
commission a review with a view to passing back any exceptional financial benefit. Overall, 
he felt BUPA had treated Mr P fairly.
Mr P disagreed. He said he paid for BUPA cover for the convenience of accessing treatment 
at a time convenient to him. Because of Covid-19, he hadnt been able to undergo surgery 
before the new excess kicked in. And he said hed continued to pay his monthly fee for three 
months, despite BUPA not providing a service. He didnt think this felt right or fair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ps complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with BUPA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the relevant law and industry guidance. 
Should BUPA refund the premiums Mr P paid?
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say his plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BUPAs provided cover under Mr Ps private medical insurance policy from April 2019 until 
April 2020 and from 10 April 2020 to date. Its clear that Mr P did make successful claims 
under his policy during the 2019-2020 policy year and had surgery pre-authorised. But even 
if he hadnt, BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr P 
making a claim during the policy year. 
And the terms of Mr Ps plan set out his rights under the contract. Theres no term in the 
contract which allows Mr P to suspend the payment of premiums or receive a refund of his 
premiums if the full services couldnt be provided. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Mr P 
that this option wasnt available to him. 
BUPA did decide to offer payment breaks for some eligible policyholders who were in 
financial hardship  but it doesnt seem this was the reason Mr P wanted his premiums 
refunded. I say that because the main reason hes unhappy with the continued payment of 
his premiums was because he couldnt have his surgery when hed hoped to. And so BUPA 
didnt consider Mr P was eligible for a payment holiday. BUPA is entitled to decide in what 
circumstances it is prepared to use its discretion to offer payment breaks and Im satisfied Mr 
P hasnt been treated any differently to any other policyholder who was in the same situation 
as he was.
Its clear Mr P feels strongly that he didnt benefit from his policy because he couldnt 
undergo surgery as soon as hed planned and I sympathise with his position. But I dont think its accurate to say that his policy was unusable. Its clear that BUPA did pre-authorise Mr 
Ps surgery on 8 April 2020. Depending on the type of medical treatment or services Mr P 
required, BUPA couldve pre-authorised further treatment to be carried out at a later date, 
including in the 2020-2021 policy year. Mr P had access to, amongst other things, BUPAs 
remote services, mental health support and video consultations. And hed also have been 
eligible to claim enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised with Covid-19 during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. BUPA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
BUPAs control.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to Mr P. BUPA initially told him that a third-party 
independent review would take place to see if thered been any exceptional financial benefit 
to it as a result of Covid-19, once itd had the chance to assess the impact of Covid-19 on 
claims. If so, then it committed to passing back any difference to its members by way of a 
refund or other appropriate method. I dont think this was an unfair position for BUPA to take. 
I say that because it agreed to pass on any unusual financial benefits to its members to 
recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to use their policies as usual.
BUPAs website suggests that this review has now taken place and that eligible 
policyholders will receive a rebate between April and the end of July this year. I should say 
that theres no guarantee that Mr P will be entitled to any refund in 2021 this is for BUPA to 
calculate. If Mr Ps unhappy with the way his rebate is calculated, he may be able to bring a 
new complaint to us about that issue. 
Should BUPA waive Mr Ps annual excess fee for his planned surgery?
It seems from all Mr Ps told us, that hed hoped to undergo knee surgery before his policy 
renewed in April 2020. He told us his treating doctor was considering whether surgery was 
necessary in February 2020, but that due to Covid-19, the doctor couldnt see him as quickly 
because of patient demand. It seems Mr P underwent investigations in March 2020 
(although these may have been separate to his knee condition). And his planned surgery 
wasnt booked and authorised until 8 April 2020  two days prior to renewal. Mr P feels that 
hed have been able to undergo surgery prior to renewal if it hadnt been for Covid-19. And if 
hed done so, he wouldnt be liable to pay another £500 annual excess basis.
Ive looked closely at the policy terms relating to when policy excesses are paid. I think the 
following clause is key:
If your excess or co-insurance applies each year it starts at the beginning of each year even 
if your treatment is ongoing. So, your excess or co-insurance could apply twice to a single 
course of treatment if your treatment begins in one year and continues into the next year.
In my view, its clear that if treatment begins during one policy year (in Mr Ps case, during 
the 2019-20 year) and continues into the following year; another excess could apply. Ive 
thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable for BUPA to rely on this term in the 
circumstances of this case.
It seems that Mr P underwent an MRI on 2 March 2020 (I understand this was to investigate 
his knee) and subsequently, underwent a procedure in theatre on 12 March 2020. It was 
around four weeks later that his further surgery was booked in and pre-authorised. So it isnt clear to me - given the short timeframe between Mr Ps investigations and renewal - that the 
surgery couldve been carried out before the renewal, even if Covid-19 hadnt been a factor 
in any delay in the provision of some services. And I havent seen any evidence from Mr Ps 
treating doctor which would indicate that the surgery wouldve been carried out earlier than 
10 April 2020 were it not for the impact of Covid-19. 
So in these circumstances, I think it was fair for BUPA to rely on its policy terms and to apply 
a second excess of £500 when Mr P undergoes surgery.
All in all, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, Im not telling BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman