DRN-1937029
The complaint
Miss F complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) has failed to treat her fairly 
when she faced difficulties making her repayments. In particular she says the lender has 
failed to take account of a mental health condition from which she is suffering.
What happened
Miss F started to face problems repaying her loan very shortly after taking it out. So I think it 
is right that in this decision I should also consider whether it was reasonable for Varooma to 
agree to lend to Miss F in addition to the complaint points I have noted above. That lending 
decision was also considered by our adjudicator in his assessment.
Miss F was given a single loan by Varooma. She borrowed £500 in January 2019 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Miss Fs borrowing was secured against 
her motor vehicle. Miss F has found it difficult to meet her scheduled repayments and run up 
arrears on the loan. On two occasions Varooma has started proceedings to repossess 
Miss Fs car on which the loan was secured. Miss F retained her car by paying some of the 
arrears, but incurred further charges relating to the costs of the repossession activities. 
Recently Miss F has told us that she has given possession of the car to Varooma as she 
was unable to afford some repairs that were needed on the vehicle, and she couldnt sell it 
since the loan was secured against it.
Miss Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although he didnt think 
the checks Varooma had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient, he hadnt seen 
enough to make him think that better checks would have led to the application being 
declined. So he didnt think Varooma had been wrong to give the loan to Miss F. And he 
didnt think, based on the information Miss F had supplied to the lender, that Varooma had 
failed to treat her fairly when she started to face problems making her repayments. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Varooma gave this loan to Miss F required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Varooma had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss F. In 
practice this meant that Varooma had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Miss F undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Varooma to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Miss F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Varooma did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Miss F.
Varooma gathered some information from Miss F before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And Miss F also supplied the lender with 
some extracts from her bank statements.
Miss F was entering into a significant commitment with Varooma. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I would expect that Varooma would want 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Fs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Although it did get some information from 
Miss Fs bank statements I dont think that information was sufficiently detailed for me to 
consider Varoomas checks to be sufficient.
But although I dont think the checks Varooma did before agreeing the loan were detailed 
enough, that in itself doesnt mean that Miss Fs complaint should succeed. Id also need to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown Varooma 
that Miss F couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Miss Fs bank 
statements, and what shes told us about her financial situation, to see what better checks 
would have shown Varooma.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that 
Varooma should have carried out. I do think Varooma needed evidence to corroborate what 
Miss F said was happening with her finances. And looking at her bank statements is one 
way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Miss Fs bank statements I can get a good idea 
of what better checks might have shown.
Ive carefully considered the information shown on Miss Fs bank statements around the time 
that she borrowed from Varooma. Those bank statements dont show any clear evidence 
that Miss F would be unlikely to be able to repay this lending in a sustainable manner. Her 
bank statements dont show any evidence of serious financial problems such as excessive 
use of an overdraft, multiple other credit repayments, or regular unpaid transactions. I think it 
would have been reasonable for Varooma to conclude that the loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Miss F.
I can see that Miss F has faced problems repaying this loan. But that in itself doesnt suggest 
that Varooma shouldnt have given it to her. Circumstances that might be apparent at the 
time a lending decision is made, might alter over the course of the loan. But unless those 
changes were reasonably foreseeable I dont think that means a lender should expect the 
changes and factor them into any lending decision. And although I can see that Varooma 
repeatedly contacted Miss F about her repayments being missed or delayed, I havent seen 
anything to make me conclude that contact was unreasonable or excessive.
When Miss F told Varooma about her problems repaying the loan it needed to treat her 
fairly, with forbearance and with due consideration. I can see that Varooma asked Miss F to 
provide updated details of her income and expenditure, and more information about her 
health problems. But it doesnt seem that Miss F provided Varooma with the information it 
needed to determine what support it would be appropriate to provide. So I cannot conclude 
that Varooma has done anything wrong in this regard.
When Miss F brought her complaint to this Service, Varooma offered to reduce her 
outstanding balance by removing much of the charges and interest that had recently been 
added. I think that was a reasonable approach to show due consideration to her 
circumstances. If, after handing her vehicle over to Varooma, Miss F still owes the lender 
money, Id encourage her to get back in touch with the lender in respect of this offer.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Miss F. But, in summary, although 
I dont think the checks Varooma did before agreeing this loan were proportionate, I dont 
think better checks should have led to the loan request being declined. And I dont think 
Varooma has treated Miss F unfairly when she faced problems repaying her loan. So I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Greenlight Credit Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman