DRN-2466222
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way Phoenix Life Limited have dealt with the sale of his annuity 
and the subsequent annuity review. Mr K says that he didn't receive the review outcome 
letter nor the cheque that Phoenix Life said it had sent. Mr K wants the annuity to be paid to 
him as a cash lump sum with interest and compensation.
What happened
In September 1989 Mr K took out a pension policy with Abbey Life (now Phoenix Life for 
ease of reference Ill refer only to Phoenix Life). In December 2008, Mr Ks fund value 
was just under £18,000 and he purchased a single life annuity with Phoenix Life in 
December 2008. The maximum tax-free cash was taken which amounted to £4,411.00. 
The remainder was used to purchase an annuity.
On 12 May 2018, Phoenix Life wrote to Mr K and requested that he complete a 
questionnaire. This questionnaire included questions about the information he received from 
Phoenix Life when the annuity was purchased.
A reminder was sent on 25 May 2018. Mr K completed the form and returned it to Phoenix 
Life. Phoenix Life tried to contact Mr K by phone to discuss this but it couldnt reach Mr K 
so it sent a letter asking Mr K to call it.
Mr K telephoned Phoenix Life on 25 June 2018. The purpose of the review was explained 
and Mr K informed them that hed relied on telephone conversations when making his 
decision to purchase the annuity.
After the telephone conversation, a Health and Life questionnaire was sent to Mr K to 
complete on 6 July 2018. As a response was not received a reminder was sent on 3 August 
2018. Mr K completed the questionnaire and it was received by Phoenix Life on 16 August 
2018.
Phoenix Life then conducted a review of the annuity sale and it says this was done in 
accordance with the guidance set down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was 
concluded that Mr K wasn't provided with enough information before he purchased the 
annuity. And that he could've purchased an enhanced annuity which wouldve provided 
him with additional annuity income.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mr K on 28 September 2018 explaining the outcome of the review, and 
that Mr Ks annuity payments were being increased from £647.27 to £780.02. A net lump 
sum of £1,362.49 was calculated and it had issued a cheque representing the past loss in 
annuity payments including interest.
As the cheque was not deposited within six months, Phoenix Life wrote to Mr K to say the 
cheque had been sent to his bank on 12 April 2019. Mr K telephoned Phoenix Life on 18 
April 2019. The letter and payment were explained in this call.
Mr K telephoned Phoenix Life again on 24 April 2019. Phoenix Life confirmed the cheque 
had been sent to his bank. Mr K was advised to check with his bank and to call back if they 
didnt have it. Mr K also requested a letter explaining what the cheque was for.
Mr K spoke to his bank and called Phoenix Life back on 24 April 2019. He told Phoenix 
Life that the bank had not received it. It said it would request the cheque be cancelled 
and another cheque be reissued and sent to Mr K.
In the meantime the bank had deposited the cheque, so the payment was now in Mr Ks 
account. The request to cancel the cheque was cancelled. 
Mr K was unhappy with the way hed been treated by Phoenix Life. He was unhappy as he 
said he had not received the review letter outcome. And the first hed heard of it was when 
he was told the cheque was going to be cancelled as it had not been cashed. This was also 
the first hed heard of Abbey Life becoming Phoenix Life. Mr K was also unhappy as he 
says he was told that this money wasnt compensation but he says it clearly is. Then Mr K 
said there was mis-information about the payment having been made and it wasnt until he 
called his bank and went back to Phoenix Life that it suddenly appeared in his account.
In relation to the review and his annuity, Mr K says that he doesnt want the money he was 
paid by Phoenix Life. He says it should have purchased him an enhanced annuity with 
another provider as he wouldve been able to do at the time. Hes asked Phoenix Life to 
pay him the value of his policy as a cash lump sum. Hes said that Phoenix Life has said 
that an annuity is for life but Mr K makes the point thats fine if the annuity is the right one.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the evidence shows that Phoenix Life had sent the letters it said it had. And 
whilst Mr K might not have received these that doesnt mean Phoenix Life didnt send them.
She explained that she didnt think Phoenix Life had mis-led Mr K or lied about the letters 
and cheques it had sent. And she felt Phoenix Life had complied with the regulators annuity 
review guidelines. She explained that Mr K couldnt now choose to cash-in this annuity and 
at the time he purchased the annuity the option to take it as a lump sum wasnt available.
Mr K responded to say he didnt agree as he still felt that what had happened to him was 
wrong. No further points or explanation was given by Mr K other than that. And Phoenix Life 
had nothing substantial to add.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. Within this I explained why 
I had largely came to the same conclusions as our investigator except for one point, the 
interest rate used in the calculation. Our general approach when a customer has been 
deprived of the use of money is to award 8% simple interest. I said that it didnt look like this 
is what Phoenix had used in its calculation. And therefore I thought it should redress Mr K 
for the difference between the rate it used and 8%, bring that up to date and pay Mr K the 
difference.
Phoenix Life responded to explain that within the FCA framework for carrying out the 
reviews, the interest isnt calculated simply as a set rate. It explained that the FCAs interest 
component in the redress calculator was designed to account for a number of things. And 
ultimately not what the customer wouldve done with the money but instead based on 
financial benefit the firm had earned in that time and to pass this onto the customer.
It said as it had used the regulators mandated redress calculator correctly it was difficult to 
accept that Id said it had not calculated the interest on the past loss fairly.Mr K responded to my provisional decision to say he still felt misled by Phoenix Life in the 
way that the redress was paid. He says he was categorically told it was not paid as 
compensation. But if it wasnt compensation, what was the money for?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision has not changed from the one I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill set out my final decision and reasoning here for completeness.
Mr Ks response to the provisional decision
Firstly, dealing with Mr Ks response to the provisional decision. Mr K has said he still feels 
that he was misled by Phoenix Lifes response to the review and the way his redress was 
paid and explained. In my provisional decision I said:
Firstly, dealing with the communication around the outcome and payment of the redress. 
The evidence in my view show thats Phoenix Life did all that can be reasonably be required 
of it to communicate its decision with Mr K and pay him the redress. Ive no reason to doubt 
Mr K when he says he didnt receive some of the letters but as the investigator explained 
that doesnt mean that Phoenix Life didnt send them. And in any event once Mr K let them 
know he hadnt received the letters, Phoenix Life did then discuss this with him over the 
telephone to explain what the redress was for.
In terms of the cheque payment, again I dont think Phoenix Life did anything wrong here. 
Ultimately Mr K did receive the money due to him and an explanation of why he was being 
paid this money. So I cant say that he has suffered a loss here or that Phoenix Life caused 
him any unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Mr K is still unhappy that he was told this payment wasnt compensation and thinks that this 
shows that Phoenix Life were trying to fool him. But I dont agree. I think this is just a case of 
a mis-understanding. When Mr K rang Phoenix Life regarding the outcome review and 
cheque, he said he didnt want to accept the compensation as he wanted a different solution. 
But Phoenix Life explained as this was from a review it had to carry out as directed by the 
regulator, the money was redress. It was paying him what was his and not an offer of 
compensation to accept or reject. Whether you call this compensation, redress or something 
else is largely a case of semantics. But what Phoenix Life was trying to explain was that this 
was a payment of something that was owed to Mr K, rather than compensation that could be 
rejected in favour of another solution. So I dont think Phoenix Life did anything wrong here.
The crux of the complaint
Regarding the crux of Mr Ks initial complaint, that Mr K didnt accept the outcome of the 
review and instead wanted another solution. This was covered in my provisional decision 
and my view remains the same. In my provisional decision I said:
But I think the crux of the complaint is Mr K is unhappy with the original sale of the annuity 
and what hes receiving now. Mr K has said he thinks he should have been given the option 
to buy an enhanced annuity with another provider. And that Phoenix Life shouldve 
purchased him an enhanced annuity with another provider. Mr K as a solution wants 
Phoenix Life to pay him the value of his policy as a lump sum. Phoenix Life as were other providers, were instructed to carry out a review of non-advised 
annuity sales from a particular time period. The purpose of this review was to look at 
whether customers had been given adequate information about their choices at the time. A 
big part of the review focused on situations where customers had a health condition that may 
have qualified them for an enhanced annuity but they chose not to take up this option. And 
Phoenix Life found that in line with the guidelines set out by the regulator for the review, Mr 
K hadnt been given enough information at the time to make an informed choice. The review 
assumes that had a customer being given enough information and they had a qualifying 
health condition they wouldve explored the option of taking out an enhanced annuity.
The review guidelines then require a business to put this right by calculating whether the 
customer is worse off for not having this option. And it gave businesses a framework for this 
calculation process, this framework doesnt require them to purchase an enhanced annuity 
for the customer with a business that offered it at the time. Instead the regulator requires 
businesses to use a figure it has calculated using the market values at the time that 
represents what a customer wouldve received as an enhanced annuity for their particular 
health condition. This is to be compared with what annuity they actually received. And future 
payments need to be increased to the value calculated as the enhanced annuity they ought 
to have received.
So I dont think Phoenix Life needs to purchase Mr K an enhanced annuity with another 
provider. The review was designed by the regulator to put right the lack of information and 
subsequent poor annuity choices made by customers when taking out annuities. Mr K has 
made the point that he shouldve had an enhanced annuity from the start but this has now 
been put right by the increase in his annuity. It would be difficult now in hindsight to ascertain 
what provider Mr K wouldve decided to purchase an annuity with and the regulators review 
framework provides a fair solution to this issue.
As Mr K thinks he has been wronged by Phoenix Life he wishes for the value of his annuity 
to be paid to him as a cash lump sum. However, I dont think this is a fair and reasonable 
solution for a number of reasons. Firstly, as the investigator explained at the time Mr K 
chose to take his annuity, even if had he been provided with all the correct information, 
taking it as a lump sum wouldnt have been option. There was a requirement to take out an 
annuity at the time (unless certain conditions were met around the size of the pot or the total 
value of pension arrangements  neither of which wouldve applied to Mr K here) and the 
option to take a pension as lump sum came in at later date through the pension freedoms 
legislation. So Mr K couldnt have had a lump sum from his pension in any event.
Mr K has pointed to the fact that legislation does now allow in certain situations for an 
annuity to be cashed in, if the provider agrees to do so. Phoenix Life doesnt appear to have 
answered this directly but it has said it will not be paying Mr K a cash lump sum as he 
requested as it says its already taken the appropriate steps to put things right for Mr K.
Mr K presumably thinks that the whole value of his annuity should be paid to him as he feels 
he has been wronged by Phoenix Life in terms of the value he has received from his annuity. 
However, the pot that Mr K had to purchase an annuity after taking his lump sum was 
£13,200 approximately in 2008. This has now been paid for 12 years and taking into account 
the review that has now been carried out, this amounts to over £9,000 already received. So 
in roughly five years time Mr K may well have received money in excess of the value used to 
purchase his annuity. Furthermore, with Mr Ks annuity being worth £780 a year and having 
taken his annuity at age 50, its likely that the value of his annuity is in excess of the limit 
allowed to cash in annuities even if Phoenix Life did agree.The interest rate paid
I think it might be helpful if I clarify what I said in my provisional decision. I appreciate that 
Phoenix Life did carry out the calculation in-line with what was directed by the regulator.
There was nothing Id seen which suggested that Phoenix Life used incorrect information or 
incorrectly used the redress calculator. It looks to have followed the process in regard to 
inputting the correct information into the redress calculator, and calculating the likely position 
Mr K wouldve been in.
But in the circumstances of this particular case, having considered the situation and our 
approach on such matters, I felt it was fair and reasonable to award 8% simple interest as Mr 
K had been deprived of this money. This is inline with our general approach and as 
published on our website.
Phoenix Life has confirmed that it did not award 8% interest and instead awarded interest as 
built into the redress calculator.
I acknowledge Phoenix Lifes point about the issues in this case not being sufficient to depart 
from the redress calculator. But the redress is designed to put Mr K as far as is reasonably 
possible in the position he would have been in had he bought an alternative annuity. That 
includes redress, in the form of interest, for being deprived of money ie him not having it 
available to use. Its difficult to say for sure what the cost is to someone of being deprived 
of money. For many people, it might have influenced a range of decisions about spending 
and borrowing over a period of time. In this instance, I think a rate of 8% simple interest per 
year is fair to reflect the cost to Mr K of being deprived of this money. 
Phoenix Lifes argument for the lower interest rate is based on the fact it used the FCAs 
agreed redress calculator. 
However, I'm separate to the FCA and I'm required to decide cases based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And, for the reasons outlined 
above, I consider interest at 8% to be fair in this case. Thats not to say that I dont have 
sympathy with its position that it followed the regulatory framework in carrying out its 
calculation.  But it also knows our approach to such situations.
In this case I remain of the view that Mr K was deprived of money that he otherwise would 
have had the use of. And would have used. So it remains my view that fair interest on the 
back payment should be in line with the usual 8% rate award. 
Ive noted Phoenixs Life also raised points wider than this case and whilst I can understand 
their point of view its not relevant to my decision on this case, so I wont discuss it here.
Putting things right
For these reasons, my decision is to partially uphold this complaint. To put things right 
Phoenix Life should rerun the loss calculation on the same basis as before but instead using 
a rate of 8% simple interest. The interest should be brought up to date and the additional 
amount due should be paid to Mr K as redress upon his acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Phoenix Life Limited in 
relation to the interest awarded only. Phoenix Life Limited should put things right as 
explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021. 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman