DRN-3840704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave them incorrect 
information about an overpayment balance on their mortgage account.
What happened
At the time of the event Mr and Mrs T have complained about  June 2022  they owed 
approximately £200,000 on their Halifax mortgage. They had approximately 27 years to run 
on the mortgage at that time and it was set up on a capital repayment basis. A mortgage 
offer dated 21 August 2020 confirms plans to fix the rate on part of the mortgage until 
January 2023 and fix the rate on another part until October 2025. And in 2021 Mr and Mrs T 
borrowed a further £10,000 which would be on a fixed rate until January 2027.
Mr and Mrs T say they were experiencing financial difficulties and called Halifax in          
June 2022 to explore the possibility of lowering their monthly payments on their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs T were told they didnt qualify for a repayment method switch to interest only and 
they knew that extending the term to Mr Ts retirement age would not make a significant 
difference to their monthly mortgage costs. During the call, the Halifax advisor noticed they 
had made overpayments of £2,620 on their mortgage and said they could use the 
overpayments to reduce the amount they paid to their mortgage in the short term. 
Mr and Mrs T say they thought about that over the following weeks and called back in 
August 2022 to make arrangements to make use of their overpayment balance. They say 
the Halifax advisor calculated a reduced balance for the following five months but 
encountered a problem when attempting to set it up. The advisor told them hed investigate 
and call Mr and Mrs T back. He did so, but told them the overpayment balance was no 
longer available because theyd switched rates since the overpayment balance had accrued. 
Mr and Mrs T say Halifaxs error has caused them to struggle financially and has had an 
impact on their mental health. So, they complained to Halifax.
In its final response letter of August 2022 Halifax acknowledged that it had given                
Mr and Mrs T incorrect information about the availability of the overpayment balance. But it 
said it couldnt make that money available to them. However, it did offer to pay Mr and Mrs T 
£75 for the inconvenience caused by its error.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs T asked us to consider their complaint. 
They said Halifaxs offer wasnt adequate to compensate them for the error it had made. And 
Halifax should make the amount of their overpayment £2,620 available to them. Our 
investigator didnt agree. She thought Halifaxs offer was adequate to compensate them for 
the distress and inconvenience the error had caused them and didnt conclude Mr and Mrs T 
had suffered a material loss. Our investigator explained that Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage offer 
says that when a contractual monthly payment (CMP) is recalculated, any overpayments 
already made would be capitalised. And that would mean that Mr and Mrs T would have had 
to make overpayments after capitalisation if they wanted to underpay later.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said it wasnt fair to expect them to remember all the details 
of their mortgage offer. And, as the underpayments were Halifaxs idea, they had no reason 
to check whether it was allowed under the terms and conditions of the mortgage. So, they 
made plans based on the information given by Halifax. Prior to that information being given, 
theyd considered downsizing to make their living costs affordable going through the winter 
months. The information given by Halifax reassured them that was not necessary. They say 
that, had they not been given that information, they may have sold their house in the 
summer months and not been in the financial mess they went on to find themselves in.
Without altering her opinion on Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, our investigator did ask Halifax if it 
was prepared to increase its offer of compensation. But as it declined to do so and             
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigators opinion, their complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ts complaint Ive thought about whether the offer Halifax has made is 
sufficient to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience its error caused. And Ive 
thought about whether Halifax should have allowed Mr and Mrs T to reduce their payments 
as calculated in their call in August 2022.
Ive listened to a recording of the conversation Mr and Mrs T had with Halifax in June 2022. 
From that its clear the advisor told them about the possibility of reducing payments because 
of the overpayments made. There was no agreement for Halifax to take action at that time 
and Mr and Mrs T were left to think about what they wanted to do. Halifax has not disputed 
that information was given in error, so I dont need to consider whether it was or was not 
given in error here. I only need to consider whether Halifaxs offer is sufficient to compensate 
them for that error.
Mr and Mrs T say they may have sold their house in the summer months of 2022, had they 
not been given the incorrect information about their overpayment balance. So, Ive thought 
about how likely that was. Halifaxs records indicate that call was made on 24 June 2022. 
They made the call to enquire about going on to interest only payments. Halifax said it had 
minimum income criteria for that and Mr and Mrs T confirmed their income did not meet that 
criteria. As Mr and Mrs T have said, it was the Halifax adviser who suggested using the 
overpayments balance. 
Having listened to the call, I dont think its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs T thought the 
suggestion to use the overpayment balance was a long-term solution. Im also not 
persuaded they were thinking of selling their home at that time. Thats because early in the 
call they said their plan was to downsize in about 10 to 15 years. After the adviser had 
suggested using the overpayment balance, they said they were at the point where theyre 
thinking they were going to have to sell the house and move now, but theyd only just made 
it how they wanted it for their children.
I think their plans on downsizing were clear going into the conversation  that they wouldnt 
do so until 10 to 15 years had passed. And they thought switching the payments to interest 
only, be that in the short term or on a more permanent basis, would allow them to do that. 
Their comment about selling and moving then was a response to being told about the only 
option available to them with regard to reducing the monthly mortgage payment  the use of 
the overpayment balance. So, I dont think that information persuaded them not to sell their 
home at that time.However, Ive also considered the possibility that the comment about selling and moving 
then was merely a response to not being allowed to switch to interest only payments. And 
that, had they been told there were no options available to them, they may have decided to 
sell then. Theyve told us they may have sold in the summer months. So, its by no means 
certain that they would have chosen to do so and that clearly didnt match their ideal plan to 
do so in 10 to 15 years, albeit that they were experiencing financial difficulty. Theres also no 
guarantee or measurable likelihood that they would have sold in what was left of the 
summer months. As is widely known, interest rates and inflation generally had a negative 
effect on the housing market in the Autumn of 2022, diminishing the likelihood of selling 
then. In addition, Mr and Mrs T would have had to consider the costs to them of the early 
redemption charges that applied to their mortgage at that time.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im not persuaded its more likely than not 
Mr and Mrs T would have sold their home had they been given the correct information by 
Halifax. So, I dont conclude Halifax has caused them not to sell their home at that time.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Ts comments about the effect of all of this on their mental 
health. Theyve not expanded on that or provided details/evidence of the extent of the impact 
on their mental health. I wont speculate on that aside from saying I understand that 
experiencing financial difficulties can have a substantial impact on mental health as well as 
most other aspects of life. Im sorry that Mr and Mrs T have experienced and are possibly 
still experiencing that. But, while I agree Halifaxs error may have contributed to their 
experience, I think its unlikely to be the cause of it.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T spent some time thinking about using the overpayment 
balance  it was over one month between their first and second phone calls to Halifax. But 
their comments at the end of the first call lead me to think they werent persuaded using the 
overpayment balance was a significant long-term solution. So, while the incorrect information 
caused them to have to re-think their plans, I dont think it had a significant impact on them. 
So, I think Halifaxs offer of £75 is reasonable given all the circumstances.
I have also thought about whether Halifax should make or should have made the 
overpayment balance available to Mr and Mrs T. The terms of the mortgage say any 
overpayment balance is taken into account when monthly payments are recalculated. So, as 
that has happened since the overpayments accrued, the overpayment balance was part of 
the recalculation. That means the overpayment balance was deducted from the overall 
balance before the monthly payments were recalculated. Mr and Mrs T would have benefited 
from that because the mortgage balance used to recalculate the monthly payments would 
have been lower as a result of the overpayments being deducted from it. That also means 
the overpayment balance is now no longer available to use. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Halifax to reverse that process as I havent seen 
anything to suggest it made an error in that regard. And I dont think it would be practical for 
Halifax to reverse that process as Mr and Mrs T have already benefited from lower payments 
than they would have been charged had the overpayment balance not been included in the 
recalculation.
Having considered all the circumstances, I dont think Halifax needs to increase its offer to 
Mr and Mrs T or do anything further to resolve the complaint  aside from making the 
payment of £75 to them, if it hasnt done so already. And I dont think Halifaxs error has 
caused Mr and Mrs T additional financial difficulty as the overpayment balance wouldnt 
have been available for use had Halifax not made the error. So, I dont uphold                    
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman