DRN-3506353
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) not refunding 
payments he made on an online casino website.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr P made several payments to his online casino account with a company I will 
refer to as O in this decision.  These payments were made using Mr Ps Barclaycard Visa 
credit card, which amounted to about £9,400.  Mr P disputed these payments with O and 
received a partial refund as a result.  He also contacted Barclaycard to try to recover his 
funds.  As this did not happen, he raised a complaint which he also referred to our service.  
Mr P says, amongst other things:
The issue that I have experienced was: I was unaware that the service provided by the 
merchant was based in Russia and charged to my account in Russian currency. In the UK it 
is illegal for consumers to be able to deposit to online gambling establishments using their 
credit cards, when I entered my details into your website as it was a credit card it should 
have been blocked from making the deposits. This should have immediately prevented me 
from depositing money. I believed that the establishment was UK based and UK regulated 
which should have triggered the credit card to be immediately blocked to make deposits by 
the casino.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.
Mr P did not accept the investigators findings.  As an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 12 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am of the view that this complaint should not be upheld  but for different 
reasons to those put forward by our investigator.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Barclaycard) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to 
present a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr P).
Mr Ps payments were made to a company I will refer to as K in this decision, rather than O.
From what I can see, K are payment processors.  The service they provided Mr P was: being 
a network through which he could transfer his funds to O.  Because of this, if Barclaycard 
had raised a chargeback against O, I am persuaded, on balance, they would have been able 
to provide evidence showing the service they provided Mr P.  It follows then that Barclaycard 
acted fairly and reasonably by not presenting a chargeback on behalf of Mr P, as K would 
have likely been able to defend the claim successfully.
I acknowledge Mr Ps points about merchant codes and the fact he was unaware that O was 
based in another country.  However, for the purposes of the Visa chargeback scheme, Mr 
Ps submissions would have had no bearing on his chargeback claim if one had been raised.  
Turning now to whether Mr P had any section 75 rights.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
In Mr Ps case, on the face of it, there does appear to be a four-party agreement because O 
used K as a payment processor.  However, despite Mr Ps submissions, I am satisfied that 
he received services from O.  That is, Mr P was able to load his O account with funds and 
had the ability to use them  thus receiving services from O.  It follows from this that there is 
no identifiable action for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation  which is a 
requirement under the 1974 Act.
In response to our investigators findings, Mr P says, amongst other things:
One final point, the service was not provided. As soon as I made the deposit of funds and it 
loaded them onto the website in Russian currency, I did not use the funds to them gamble. 
You can tell by the merchant providing me with a partial refund that I am not to blame and 
therefore I think I should have a full refund.
Having considered this, I am unable to agree with Mr P.  I say this because:
Mr P has not provided any evidence to show he did not receive any services from O.
Mr P did not raise this point with Barclaycard when he disputed the payments he 
made.
Mr P did not initially raise this point with our Service.  The first time he did was in 
response to our investigators findings.
Further or alternatively, by Mr Ps own submissions, he was able to deposit funds to his 
account with O.  The fact he chose not to use the funds does not mean he did not receive 
services from O.
So, taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Mr P does not have any section 
75 rights regarding the payments he made.  Other issues
Mr P says Barclaycard could have done more to support him with his issues with gambling.  
He also says that it is illegal in the UK to be able to make credit card payments to gambling 
establishments; therefore, Barclaycard should not have processed his payments.
Based on the evidence before me, I can see that Barclaycard has a copy of Mr Ps gambling 
self-exclusion form.  So, I am satisfied that Mr P had taken steps himself to address his 
gambling problem and that there was something in place to support this.
However, as I set out above, the issue in this case is that Mr Ps payments were not 
categorised as gambling transactions.  With this in mind, I cannot fairly say Barclaycard 
should have taken steps to block Mr Ps payments.  I say this because Barclaycard would 
not have been able to identify them as gambling transactions because of the categorisation 
of the payments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclaycard responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings, but Mr P did not 
respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Barclaycard agreed with my provisional findings, but Mr P did not respond  I see 
no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman