DRN-3491816
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Scottish Widows Limited were not providing the service they ought to.
What happened
Mrs H referred complaints about two pension plans to this service. One of these plans is 
provided and administered by Scottish Widows. The other is provided and administered by 
another provider who is part of the same overall financial group but is a separate pension 
provider trading entity. 
Mrs H has often copied a number of entities within this overall financial group into emails to 
express her unhappiness with either or both of her pension plans and the service she 
thought she ought to be receiving. I am only considering the complaint about the pension 
plan she holds with Scottish Widows (SW) in this decision, and this is how I am referring to 
this plan.
Mrs H has a Group Personal Pension plan (GPP) with SW. This is a form of personal 
pension and was originally started for her by her former employer. This employer also 
provided a financial adviser. The financial adviser arranged for the investments to be made 
and held by the GPP. SW are the providers of the pension plan and administer the plan and 
have never provided advice to Mrs H on the plan.
In around 2019 the financial adviser instructed SW to remove the life-styling feature from the 
plan. Life-styling has been explained to Mrs H a number of times since she first complained 
so I am not going into any detail. In summary when a pension plan has the life-styling feature 
this meant it was set to change the way it was invested as she got closer to retirement to 
ensure the capital of her fund value was less exposed to the risk of fluctuation and loss. In 
other words it might be understood in general terms to mean the risk profile of the fund was 
reduced in the way it was invested. Life-styling, as with any type of investment, did not come 
with any guarantees about performance.
SW were not involved in the decision to remove the life-styling feature, they merely removed 
it when they were instructed to do so by someone who had the authority to give instructions 
on the plan.
On 28 April 2020 SW issued the annual plan statement to Mrs H. In July 2020 Mrs H ceased 
her employment. This meant that she would no longer have access to the financial adviser 
provided by her employers. Mrs H told us her ex- employers failed to pay contributions to her 
SW pension plan for a final three months, which was contrary to what they had agreed to do.
In October 2020 Mrs H contacted SW, as she felt SW were not protecting her and she asked 
if she needed to see a financial adviser. She wanted the person who looked after her fund at 
SW to contact her. She also wanted someone to either email her or phone in the evenings. 
Mrs H told SW that once she had left her employment, the financial adviser firm stopped 
contact with her, and she was unhappy she had not been told how her pension was going to 
recover from the loss it had suffered. These have been recurring concerns for Mrs H.
She went on to say she wanted to know if SW could recover money she said had been lost 
as she didnt choose the fund she was invested in. And she went on to ask various other 
questions about how she could protect her funds and what fund would suit her. Mrs H also 
asked about how payments could be made, to make up for the payments her previous 
employer had not made and how she could start new contributions from her new employer. 
She also wanted SW to confirm whether these things could be done by her next pay run.
SW replied on 9 November 2020 by email. They say they answered all of her questions and 
provided information. In summary they explained that when her SW pension plan had been 
set up, all plan holders (including herself) would have been placed in the same type of 
pension plan, with the same features. SW explained that any changes to this would have 
been or would have to be communicated to them. They let Mrs H know that if she needed 
financial help in choosing funds, they recommended speaking to a financial adviser, and 
they provided the online link to the service that assists with locating a local financial adviser.
SW let Mrs H know the name of the fund her plan was invested in. They also provided a link 
and instructions of where to find online all of the funds that were available to her to choose 
from and let her know she could choose up to 10 funds. They sent her an investment guide. 
SW also attached a fund switch form in case she chose to change funds and explained that 
they would need an instruction to do any change. SW said they would be able to provide 
illustrations based on other funds, so that if she wanted to request a projection using her 
fund value in an investment, they could provide an illustration indicating what the future 
value might be, but they stressed they recommended the use of a financial adviser to assist 
in making any such decision.
SW identified when they had last received a contribution to the SW plan from her employer 
and how any new contributions could be made or if any back dated payments might need to 
be applied.
On 14 May 2021 Mrs H called SW. She told them she had been calling and phoning since 
June 2020 but not received any reply. SW said they could go through her pension with her 
and answer any questions. Mrs H said she didnt have time but that she wanted someone to 
call her back to provide a full review of her pension plan and discuss her options on 
contributions and investment. 
SW issued communications to Mrs H in May, June, and early July to let her know they were 
looking into her complaint.
SW checked their systems for all calls and emails from Mrs H using the details they held 
from her, but they could not find any contact from her since October 2020, and they had 
replied to this contact on 9 November 2020.
In early August 2021 SW wrote to Mrs H. They explained they could not find any contact 
from her since October 2020 and that they were not upholding her complaint. However they 
did think they could have replied to her recent complaint more quickly and as such they were 
sending her a cheque for £50.
In responding to this complaint they again sent the online link to the service that assists with 
locating a local financial adviser; and they also provided details of the free guidance service 
provided by the government that might be able to give her further information or assistance.
In mid-September 2021 Mrs H contacted SW refusing their offer of £50. She said she 
expected a lot more than that. She said she had been made redundant in July 2020 and 
thought that it was unfair to receive an apology and a cheque for £50 now.SW didnt change their thinking.  They explained their apology and payment had been for not 
responding sooner after she complained in May 2021. SW thought Mrs H had first contacted 
SW after July 2020, in October 2020. They set out information on what they said they had 
done and provided and why they considered it sufficient.
SW confirmed the financial advisers previously attached to her pension plan had been 
appointed by her previous employers. Their records said the advisers had been removed 
from servicing her plan towards the end of August 2020.
On 28 November 2021 Mrs H contacted this service to refer her complaint about the SW 
pension plan, as well as her other pension plan. She acknowledged the plans were provided 
by different entities but noted that she considered them to be held within the same overall 
group. Mrs H let us know she had felt somewhat lost since she had lost her job.
She was unhappy SW didnt contact her when her ex-employers stopped making 
contributions. She told us she was unhappy as she felt she had continually chased SW to 
give her advice and had been asking for her fund to be moved into safer and less risky 
options. She said she was worried as there had been no contributions made to her SW plan 
since July 2020.
Mrs H said she wanted SW to pay for her to have a financial recovery plan including a 
financial adviser. This would need to cover how she was going to recover from her ex-
employers contributions not being made and from being invested in a less safe way. She 
wanted SW to pay for an adviser until she understood and had a clear understanding. And 
she said this might involve several sessions. She wanted SW to complete a full forecasting 
of her potential future benefits depending on different outcomes.
Mrs H has continued to say she has lost £14,000, and she thinks SW ought to be liable for 
this sum, and she wants to know what is going to be done about this.
SW tend to think Mrs H has misunderstood the service SW can provide, as her pension plan 
providers. They note they have previously identified they do not provide financial advice and 
that the services Mrs H wants are those provided by a financial adviser.
SW also sent us various historic documents. This included annual statements. In April 2017 
the transfer value of the SW plan had been just over £140,000 and in April 2018 it was 
£148,800. Her 2019 statement showed a transfer value of £160,553, by April 2020 the 
transfer value had decreased to £152,613. In April 2021 the transfer value had increased to 
£200,356. These were values for transfer as at the statement date and not guaranteed.
The statements came with a form to enable names or addresses to be updated. They all 
signposted things to think about and where Mrs H might find a financial adviser, and there 
was also different guidance on the different levels of funds on offer in relation to investment 
risk and how she could switch funds by either looking at the choice of funds or speaking to 
her financial adviser.
After Mrs H contacted this service, SW contacted Mrs H. They let her know they would not 
usually do this and would await the outcome of our investigation, but they had seen in her 
complaint, that she had referred to wanting her pension moved into safe mode and wanted 
to see if they could help. They explained they were not sure what the phrase safe mode 
meant but explained they did have a life-styling feature which would automatically switch her 
funds into what are usually classed as lower risk funds at a relevant time. This had been in 
place but removed by her previous adviser in 2019. They explained that SW had no authority 
to switch funds for her. This could only be done on her instruction or by an authorised third 
party. SW sent Mrs H information on how she could switch her funds online once she had 
made her decision. Mrs H responded by email, copying us in, and said that she still wanted to be in a SAFE 
fund. She told us she had asked her previous adviser to switch her to the SAFE fund.
She let us know she was unhappy because she hadnt chosen the fund (that she considered 
was risky) and she told us she didnt know how to do anything with the fund as her adviser 
had dealt with everything. She told us she was worrying about her funds decreasing.
Investigators view
The Investigator thought SW had offered enough in all the circumstances. In summary she 
noted:
SW couldnt provide Mrs H with advice.
The life-styling option had been removed by her previous adviser.
Whilst Mrs Hs fund value had diminished between 2019 and 2020 this reflected what 
was happening in the financial markets due in particular to the impact of Covid on 
investments. The investigator explained the level of the crash in investment values 
seen in 2020.
Mrs Hs fund value had significantly increased between 2020 and 2021 which tended 
to reflect the wider recovery in the financial markets. She acknowledged that whilst it 
was distressing to see values fluctuate and decrease, investment performance could 
not be guaranteed.
SW had provided an email contact address when requested in October 2020 and 
overall she thought SW had responded to emails from Mrs H in a timely manner.
The Investigator didnt think it was SWs responsibility if Mrs H (or an employer) did 
not make pension contributions; and she accepted SW had done what was 
reasonable when it came to letting Mrs H know what she needed to do to restart 
making contributions and that they could assist in this.
The Investigator noted SW offered a wide range of funds. And that either Mrs H or an 
adviser on her behalf could complete the information necessary to select the funds 
and switch her pension investment. 
Overall the Investigator agreed SW had taken too long to provide Mrs H with a formal 
answer to her complaint, taking nearly three months in total. She thought the £50 offered 
was sufficient here. In reaching this thinking she noted SW had promptly and accurately 
dealt with other queries and she did not accept they ought to be liable for any loss as the 
Investigator concluded any such loss would be because Mrs H had not restarted 
contributions or changed her investments, which SW were not responsible for.
Mrs H response to view
Mrs H did not accept the view. She was disappointed as she hoped that at the minimum, she 
would receive compensation and for SW to meet the costs of a government recommended 
financial adviser to complete the work she wanted done.
She continued to want SW to provide a full personal financial forecast. She said she used to 
get them until she was made redundant. She also wanted to know when she could start to 
get benefits from her plan. 
Mrs H told us she still didnt understand. She had never needed to do anything more 
previously when she wanted to switch her funds, she had previously just told her nominated 
adviser to switch to the nominated fund. She wanted to be switched into a safe fund and 
thought it was enough to tell SW this.Overall she felt she had lost the opportunity to use her employer nominated financial adviser. 
Mrs H lays blame for this with SW as she says because they had not updated her, she didnt 
get to speak to the adviser when the first monthly contribution was not made.
Mrs H initially said she would pay in the cheque for £50 over the next few months when it 
was convenient to her and if not, a new cheque would need to be issued or (preferably) a 
payment could be made to her bank account.
Mrs H was frustrated that SW wrote to her again letting her know they could switch her 
investments once she advised them on this. She said there was no reference to needing to 
select what to invest in. Mrs H raised several new matters which I am not considering. 
Overall she was unhappy with what was said about both of her pension plans.
Mrs Hs other pension provider sent Mrs H information which they indicated might fairly also 
apply to her SW plan. The letter explained that when Mrs H had been provided with a 
financial adviser by her employer, they would have taken details of her financial position, 
circumstances, objectives, and expectations as well as assessing her attitude to risk. In this 
way they would work out what her options were and make recommendations. This would 
include the adviser knowing what options were available. This was the job of a financial 
adviser and the process of advice.
The letter went on to set out that neither pension provider was offering an advised service to 
Mrs H. Whilst they appreciate she doesnt have her previous adviser, they cant and dont do 
the necessary research to find out her circumstances and attitude to risk. So she is required 
to provide specific instructions on what fund she wants to switch to and cant just refer to a 
safe or safer fund. Neither pension plan provider can interpret what this means for her. They 
noted the need for her to provide specific instructions and that they had previously given her 
fund information and switch forms and contact details. They repeated the link to the online 
link to the service that assists with locating a local financial adviser.
Overall Mrs H continued to be dis-satisfied with what was said. She has tended to 
communicate with us about both pension plans in the same correspondence. Mrs H didnt 
think they offered enough or had taken into account the cost to her of her time and other 
matters into account. She told us she didnt want a cheque and wanted cash paid into her 
current account. Mrs H was also unhappy with a letter being sent by a pension provider as 
she generally preferred email.
Mrs H also continued to stress matters in respect of her other pension plan and repeated 
previous expectations and updated what she wanted. There is continued reference to 
wanting to be moved into the SAFE portfolio. I have never had to pick the investments 
previously just the portfolio so I pick the safe portfolio.
Mrs H also told us the lowest fee shed been given an adviser for her size of investment was 
£4,000-5,000 and she said her compensation needed to be near this sum. 
Mrs H went on to tell us she didnt want to receive the £50 by cheque, she wanted the sum 
transferred to her bank account. She contacted us on a number of occasions letting us know 
she had not received the payment of £50 into her bank account. 
SW told us they had undertaken various investigations which confirmed the payment had 
been made to Mrs Hs bank account and they provided confirmation of the account number 
and date and suggested they would need to see Mrs Hs bank statement from around the 
date to be able to further identify if the payment had not been received. This service has not 
heard from Mrs H since we passed on this information.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise for the delay in providing this decision due to my personal 
circumstances. I would also like to note that I have not included everything provided and said 
in my decision. Im not required to, and I have written a longer decision than I might have 
otherwise done as it appears to me things might not have been as clear as they could be. I 
think this is due to two different pension plans being complained about at the same time, 
which ultimately were considered by two different entities as the plan providers. I am only 
considered the complaint about the SW plan in this decision.
Having considered everything with care I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint as I think SW 
have acted fairly. I broadly agree with what the Investigator said. Ive looked with care at 
everything provided, and in particular the dates and details of Mrs Hs complaints and 
expectations and what SW did. I think their payment of £50 was enough.
I appreciate that leaving her long-term employer has been difficult for Mrs H. This 
employment provided not only the pension plan but also a financial adviser with whom she 
was able to seek advice and recommendations and obviously communicate her objectives 
when it came to investing. From what she has said it appears some sort of annual report 
might have been provided by them too.
It must also have been particularly upsetting not to have received monthly contributions from 
her employer which she had understood were due to be made. I dont know whether these 
have now been made or whether Mrs H complained to her employer. I dont need to know 
this when considering this complaint, as it is not the fault of SW if Mrs Hs previous employer 
did not make a number of monthly contributions to her pension plan when she expected 
them to be made. This is not something SW can be considered responsible for, or able to 
control here. If there is any loss attributable to the ex-employers failure to pay contributions, 
it ought not fall to SW to address this. 
Ive seen what Mrs H says about her belief that SW ought to have told her contributions had 
not been made, and that if they had done, she would have been able to see the financial 
adviser provided by her employer and they could have dealt with fund losses sustained 
earlier in 2020 and switching funds. I dont agree.
 
I dont necessarily accept SW ought to have told Mrs H that regular monthly contributions 
made by her employer had not been received after one or even two months, which is what 
Mrs H suggests. There could have been a number of reasons why contributions were not 
made. But even if it could be said SW ought to, or could have reasonably informed Mrs H, I 
dont consider it can be said this would have changed the position, or that there was any loss 
caused for which SW might be considered liable.
Mrs H says she became concerned about the fall in the value of her SW plan around May 
2020. There were significant fluctuations in the financial markets around this time, due 
primarily to the global pandemic. This had a well-reported and recognised detrimental impact 
particularly on investments and pension funds. The decrease in Mrs Hs fund is in-line with 
the wider financial performance of the markets. This is not something SW could foresee or 
control, or for which SW might be considered responsible. It is not clear to me, nor is it 
relevant to this decision, whether Mrs H was raising this with the adviser she had access to 
in May 2020.Mrs H also suggested she had not chosen her investments, so by implication she thinks 
someone, and she says SW, ought to be responsible for any loss to her fund. I dont agree 
with this thinking. 
SW did not select the investments made by her SW pension plan. These were made when 
she had the benefit of a free financial adviser. I have seen that in 2019 Mrs H was aware of 
how her fund was invested when she instructed the life-styling feature to be removed. I am 
not aware if she has complained to adviser that she wasnt invested as she ought to have 
been. But that would not make any difference here.
In any event in general terms there are no guarantees when it comes to the performance of 
any investments. Some may come with a higher possibility of significant loss or gain, but 
nothing is guaranteed. I have seen that Mrs Hs SW plan increased in value significantly 
between April 2020 and April 2021. So whilst Mrs H might have felt she experienced some 
loss in the value of her fund, when valuations were generally unstable and fluctuating, she 
then went on to experience significant gain, more than outstripping the loss from the value 
provided in April 2020 when compared to the previous year.
 
I am not in a position to comment on whether Mrs H was suitably invested, as that is not 
something SW were responsible for, but I hope it will help Mrs H to appreciate that values 
attached to the performance of investments cannot be guaranteed.
I understand Mrs H feels she has consistently told SW she wants to speak to the person 
looking after her plan at SW and that she wants her pension plan to be invested in safe 
funds. I can see there are a number of communications that contain such information. But I 
hope Mrs H now understands that SW dont have a single individual overseeing or managing 
her plan (and they wouldnt be expected to), and they did provide a contact email if she had 
queries about her plan. I also hope she appreciates SW are unable to identify what is meant 
by communications saying she wants her plan to moved into safe funds, or to identify 
appropriate funds or a portfolio based on this information.
A pension plan providers role is not to advise on or select investments. There are rules put 
in place by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) which include setting out who has 
permission to advice on investments and funds to be selected, and providers of pension 
plans usually have rules about how they can accept instructions to make or switch 
investments.
 
It is usual for this to be provided in what is called an instruction, and usually needs to come 
from the customer or their financial adviser. Im satisfied SW provided accurate information 
on this as well as the means by which Mrs H could find out more information and act on her 
own behalf if she chose to.
SW cannot choose which of their potentially available investments or portfolios might be 
considered safe for Mrs H, this would need to involve them understanding what she meant 
and intended by saying safe, and what her objectives and circumstances were. A safe 
investment or portfolio is a subjective description.
Ive seen that she identified some portfolios sometimes have descriptions attached that imply 
a degree of collective agreement about whether they are safer or riskier, but even so, to 
select an investment or portfolio for a customer is considered advice, and is a regulated 
activity, which a pension provider, who is not providing an advice service, cannot do.
I have no doubt Mrs H has felt somewhat lost, I accept this from her and from what I have 
seen from the nature of the correspondence, and Im sorry to hear this. It appears to me she 
has been wanting her pension providers to step in and fulfil the role previously played by her financial adviser. This includes things such as full and personal financial planning reports 
and forecasts and changing investments and understanding what a client might mean by the 
phrase safe. But they cannot do this, it is not the service they provide. 
It remains a matter for Mrs H if she chooses to appoint a financial adviser to review her 
position. I have seen Mrs H has been provided with the sources of identifying local financial 
advisers, and she will be able to see if she can find someone who has the regulators 
permissions to advise on pensions if that is what she seeks. Ive also seen Mrs H has been 
provided with the details of the free guidance service provided by the government that might 
be able to give her further information or assistance.
I am satisfied that SW provided helpful and accurate information to Mrs H and generally 
acted in a timely way. Ive seen they feel they could have replied to the complaint she made 
in May 2021 sooner than when they replied in August 2021. It was outside the usual eight-
week time period. I am also satisfied on what I have seen that they have paid Mrs H the sum 
of £50 already. I am not persuaded Mrs H has been caused any loss, and certainly not any 
loss that can be attributed to SW. I dont require them to do anything further.
I am sorry if my decision is a disappointment for Mrs H, I can see she has felt very strongly 
that she has been let down. I hope this decision provides some assistance in understanding 
that a pension provider is not responsible for some of the things she thinks caused her loss, 
nor are they able to provide the services she has wanted.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman