DRN-1700413
The complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) said his boiler couldnt be repaired 
and that annual services werent carried out under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Cs policy provided for emergency repairs to and an annual service of his boiler. Hed had 
the policy for many years, with it renewing each August. The boiler required repairs in 
November 2019. The engineer said parts werent available due to the boilers age and 
couldnt have been be fitted anyway due to the way it had been installed.
Mr C complained to BG saying hed been paying premiums for something he couldnt use if 
parts werent available. He also said services had been missed. He said hed never been 
sent a contract or terms and conditions (T&Cs). 
BG rejected his complaint. It said that the part was available and lack of access to the boiler 
was the problem. It said Mr C had been told about reduced parts availability for his boiler in 
notes left after services. It said whilst services hadnt been carried out every year, theyd 
been offered to Mr C and he hadnt responded to make an appointment.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. He asked BG 
about parts availability. BG said service notes left with Mr C since March 2015 advised the 
boiler was on a reduced servicing list (RSL) for parts. It said due to this and general age and 
efficiency concerns, engineers had advised replacement of the boiler since 2011. 
Our investigator asked given the age of the boiler, sludge in the system and installation 
issues preventing access, whether Mr C would have been eligible for any repair under the 
policy. BG said some parts were still available so some repairs could be made. It provided 
evidence of various repairs it had made since 2009. 
Our investigator said it wouldnt be reasonable for BG to charge a premium if the boiler 
couldnt be repaired. But as some repairs were possible, BG didnt need to refund the 
premiums under the policy. But he said it wasnt fair and reasonable for BG to keep the cost 
attributable to a service if it hadnt been booked. He said it hadnt incurred any costs in 
respect of providing this part of the policy if an engineer didnt even attend. He said BG 
should refund the annual cost (£65) of the four services missed, £260 in total. 
BG disagreed. It said it had offered services by sending out reminders in each year for Mr C 
to book an appointment. It said the T&Cs were clear about services and it had fulfilled its 
part in offering them. So, it was extremely harsh to ask it to refund for service visits that 
hadnt been arranged by Mr C.  Mr C said he didnt know there was a problem obtaining 
parts until the engineer told him in November 2019. And when he made his complaint, he 
said a manager told him BG wouldnt be able to get any parts for his boiler. Our investigator 
raised this with BG.
BG said Mr C was advised about parts availability in March 2015 on the job sheet left with 
him. This also provided general advice about the boiler. BG said it didnt keep copies of job 
sheets as it was a paperless system. It said it had no records about anyone advising Mr C 
that no parts were available. It said it would have cancelled the agreement if that had been 
the case. Mr C said he didnt have a copy of the job sheet and hadnt been informed about 
this at that time. 
Our investigator upheld both parts of Mr Cs complaint. He said the boiler being on the RSL 
could significantly impact the level of service BG might provide. It was more likely than not 
that Mr C would have cancelled the policy had he known his boiler was on the RSL. And 
there was no evidence that BG did clearly communicate it to Mr C. He said a fair outcome 
would be for BG to refund premiums from March 2015 with interest, less the cost of any 
claims or services carried out. And it should refund the service cost for 2011 and 2013 with 
interest.
BG disagreed, saying the T&Cs and reminders sent about annual servicing couldnt be 
clearer. It said job sheets left with customers gave advice and it couldnt see what more it 
could do to record the advice provided. It said it was unfair to assume Mr C would have 
cancelled the policy once it was RSL as many customers do not. It said the lack of 
availability of parts was noted in the annual renewal documents sent to Mr C. As BG doesnt 
agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
I have considered the T&Cs of the policy and the renewal information and reminders sent. 
Mr C says he never received the T&Cs, but BG has provided copies of what appear to be 
correctly addressed renewal and reminder letters. As most post is successfully delivered, I 
think its likely that Mr C did receive these. But I dont think they gave Mr C the information 
he needed to decide whether the policy was suitable for him. 
Reduced Service Listing
I think this is a significant factor in the value of the policy to Mr C. He says the lack of parts 
availability made the policy worthless. There isnt clear evidence about when he was first 
informed about the RSL. However, the renewal letters provide details of the cover and do 
draw attention to issue of parts availability.
The 2019 renewal letter says this about parts:
Important Information  parts availability
 Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler
a while ago. Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler,
some other parts are becoming difficult to source
 This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well
do our best to keep it running for as long as possible
 In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund
back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your
agreement  whichevers the most recent
BG says this information shows that Mr C would have been aware that his boiler was on the 
RSL and might not be repairable in some situations. But I think this document says that 
repair will be possible in most situations. It states that most important parts are still available and that not being able to complete a repair was an unlikely event. BG is the 
expert here not Mr C. So, I think based on this information it would be reasonable for Mr C to 
take the view that it was more likely than not that BG would be able to fix the boiler and that 
the policy was worth continuing with.
In this case, there was the additional problem of how the boiler had been installed, further 
reducing the possibility of a successful repair. This wasnt a new or unknown factor, BG had 
been maintaining the boiler for many years. 
Again, BG is the expert and this information wasnt pointed out in the renewal and it isnt 
clear that this was communicated to Mr C. And, if it was, whether it was in a format where 
the implications would be understood by a non-expert.
When our investigator asked about the chance of successful repair given the boilers age, 
history of sludge build up (which was specifically not covered by the policy) and the manner 
of the installation. BG replied, with this boiler there are still some parts available and repairs 
can be completed but not all. I think this is quite different from what the renewal document 
says.
So, when the renewal document asked Mr C to check the details including that the level of 
cover you've got with us is still right for you, I dont think he had enough information to 
establish that the cover was right for him. The renewal says it is more likely than not that the 
boiler could be repaired. But, its age and condition, installation issues and reduced parts 
availability, all factors known to BG, do appear to have made successful repair an 
increasingly remote possibility.  
 
I think if Mr C had been made properly aware of this, he would have questioned whether it 
was worth continuing the cover and probably would have decided against doing so. So, I 
think it is fair and reasonable that BG refund premiums paid by Mr C in each policy year 
since March 2015 (when the boiler was put on the RSL) less any claims or services carried 
out under the policy each year. 
Servicing
Both T&Cs and service reminders do place the responsibility for arranging a boiler service 
on to the customer. But BG would appear to have only nominal costs in offering the service 
as part of the wider package compared with undertaking one. And it hasnt provided 
evidence that this isnt the case. I dont think it is fair for BG to charge for something that 
hasnt been provided. The cost attributed to a boiler service has been identified as being £65 
in the past. I think the service costs of these for 2011 and 2013 should be refunded. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I uphold the complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited. 
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to refund the premiums paid by Mr C since March 2015 
less the cost of any annual services and claims in each policy year. It should pay interest at 
8% per year simple on the balance to be refunded from the date the premiums were paid to 
the date of refund.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to refund £65 in respect of the service for 2011 and 
£65 for the service for 2013 with interest of 8% per year simple added from the date the 
premium was paid until the date of refund.     If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman