DRN-1426999
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV ("CIGNA") unfairly declined 
to provide a guarantee of payment for hospital tests. And because it refused to cover other 
therapies she'd requested. 
What happened
Ms B had a private medical insurance policy with CIGNA. 
Ms B contacted CIGNA on 22 January 2019 requesting a guarantee of payment for hospital 
tests. At this time Ms Bs policy had been suspended. CIGNA said it couldnt authorise a 
guarantee of payment as it hadnt received Ms Bs January premium payment. CIGNA told 
Ms B the policy was suspended and said it wouldnt pay out any claims or give any 
guarantee of payment while that was the case. However, it told Ms B that if she paid for 
treatment herself, once her missed premium had been paid, she could make a claim for 
reimbursement.
Ms B was unhappy CIGNA had refused to provide a guarantee of payment for her hospital 
tests. And she told CIGNA she wanted to cancel her policy.
CIGNA told Ms B it had cancelled her policy, but it said it would give her the option to 
change her mind and have it reinstated. Ms B responded asking how quickly she could 
reschedule the hospital tests she needed. And asked CIGNA if it would provide cover for 
holistic treatments. 
CIGNA told Ms B that although it was able to reinstate her policy, it couldnt do this until her 
January premium had been paid. It said it was unable to authorise any guarantee of 
payment for treatment. It asked Ms B to confirm when she thought she would be able to pay 
her premium. And it told Ms B that holistic treatments, such as the ones shed asked about, 
weren't covered by her policy. 
Ms B told CIGNA she didnt know when she would be able to pay the premium as she was 
waiting to receive a loan payment into her bank account. And she said she didnt know if she 
wanted to continue with the policy, as she was unhappy with the way CIGNA had treated 
her. She complained to CIGNA about its decision not to authorise her hospital tests, its 
refusal to cover the costs of holistic treatment, and a previous decision it'd made about 
another request shed made for assistance.  
CIGNA responded to Ms Bs complaint. It said it had cancelled the policy and backdated this 
to the last day before the missed payment had become due. It told Ms B it hadnt done 
anything wrong in declining to guarantee payment for her hospital tests, as her premiums 
were not up to date at the time. It also reiterated that the other treatment / assistance shed 
previously requested was not covered by her policy. 
Unhappy with CIGNAs response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service. An investigator here looked into what had happened and said he thought CIGNA hadn't 
done anything wrong. Ms B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say CIGNA has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I dont think CIGNA has done anything wrong in this case, and Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that the January payment wasnt paid on time.  And the terms of Ms Bs 
policy set out what will happen when a premium isnt paid, as follows. 
If you do not pay premium and other charges when they are due, we will notify you by email 
immediately and suspend your policy i.e. cover for all beneficiaries will be suspended. If 
payment is made, the policy will be reinstated. We will not approve treatment while the policy 
is suspended. We will not settle any claim while any payment to us is outstanding until the 
outstanding amount is paid. 
The terms also say that if a missed premium is paid within 30 days of becoming due, CIGNA 
will reinstate the policy. But if the missed premium isnt paid within 30 days, the policy will be 
cancelled. 
Ms B said shed been unable to pay her premium in January as shed not received a loan 
payment shed been expecting. Whilst I appreciate that this must have been a difficult 
financial situation for Ms B, her policy states that cover will be suspended if premiums arent 
paid and thats not unusual with this type of policy. Ive seen evidence that CIGNA contacted 
Ms B about the missed payment, and offered to accept a late payment from her after shed 
asked it to cover her claim. So I dont think CIGNA acted unreasonably. 
Ms B has said that she has sometimes paid her premiums late in the past, but her 
policy continued. And she's provided evidence of this. I accept that this is the case. 
However, Ive also seen evidence that CIGNA contacted Ms B when her premiums werent 
paid on time in the past. And it advised her the policy would be suspended until payment 
was received. On these previous occasions, Ms B made a late payment of her premium, so 
her policy continued. However in the case of Ms B's January premium, this was never paid. 
Because of this, I don't think CIGNA acted unfairly in cancelling Ms Bs policy. 
Ms B has also said that the tests she needed in January 2019 were connected to previous 
treatment she received, which CIGNA had paid for. I dont think this makes a difference, 
because at the time Ms B contacted CIGNA to request a guarantee of payment for hospital 
tests, her policy had already been suspended. And because of this I think CIGNA was 
entitled to decline any claims until the premiums had been brought up to date. 
Ms B has said that the tests she needed were confirmed by her doctor on 2 January 2019. 
This was before her January premium became due and when her policy was still in force. So 
if she had contacted CIGNA at that time, I think it should have assessed the claim in line with 
the policy terms. However, Ms B didnt ask CIGNA to provide a guarantee of payment for the 
tests until 22 January 2019, by which time her policy was suspended. So I still think it was 
reasonable for CIGNA to refuse to provide a guarantee of payment. Ms B would like her policy with CIGNA to be reinstated. And shes asked for compensation 
for various costs, and further treatment. As Ive established that I dont think CIGNA did 
anything wrong, theres no reason for me to ask CIGNA to reinstate the policy, or to pay any 
of the costs Ms B has asked for. 
CIGNA has said that it can offer Ms B a new policy, although this would be fully medically 
underwritten. And in the circumstances, I dont think thats unfair. 
Ms B also complained that CIGNA refused to cover the costs of some other treatment / 
assistance. Whilst I dont dispute that the treatment Ms B asked for might have been 
beneficial to her health, her policy doesnt offer any cover for these types of treatments. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for CIGNA to say it wouldnt cover these when the policy was 
in force. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no 
award against CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman