DRN-1586431
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that Calpe insurance Company Limited declined her claim made on her 
motor insurance policy, held her liable for an accident and has asked her to reimburse its 
outlay for the other drivers claim. 
What happened
Miss D was involved in a collision with another driver. Calpe had an engineer look at the 
damage on her car and a claims investigator ask Miss D about the event. Liability was 
disputed and Calpe thought it wouldnt be able to defend the matter in court. So it accepted 
liability and paid the other drivers claim. 
Calpe said Miss D was driving outside the terms of her policy as she was driving to work and 
she wasnt covered for commuting. So it declined her claim and asked her to reimburse its 
outlay. Miss D was also unhappy that Calpe didnt renew her policy and hasnt offered a 
repayment plan to clear the debt. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Calpe 
had reasonably investigated the claim and accepted liability, as it was entitled to do by the 
policy terms and conditions. He thought it had evidence that Miss D was commuting and so 
was entitled to decline her claim as this wasnt covered by her policy. 
And he thought Calpe was entitled to recover its outlay, but not its investigation costs, from 
Miss D as this was less than her policy excess. He also thought Calpe wasnt obliged to 
renew Miss Ds policy and it said it would offer her a payment plan when her complaint was 
concluded.
Miss D replied that she wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss D is adamant that she wasnt at fault for the accident. She said she was 
in the act of parallel parking her car and had her indicator on when the other car hit hers. But 
the other driver said Miss D pulled out of a parking place and hit his car.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss D the same as someone else in her position. 
I can see that Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss D to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss D has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a 
common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Also, insurers are entitled 
to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or 
better to compromise.
I can see that Calpe had to consider the two drivers conflicting versions of events, the 
damage caused to the cars, and its independent investigators report. There were no 
independent witnesses or CCTV footage available. The other drivers insurer threatened 
legal action and Calpe thought it would be unable to successfully defend the claim in court. 
So Calpe accepted liability and paid the other drivers claim. 
I think it made this decision after reasonably investigating the claim and considering the 
evidence available. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. And I 
think it can make a decision to settle in order to avoid unnecessary costs. So I cant say 
Calpes done anything wrong or require it to change its decision on liability. 
Miss D said the engineer and claims investigator thought the other driver was at fault for the 
accident. But I think its for Calpe to make its decision on liability. 
Calpe declined Miss Ds claim because it said she was driving outside the policy terms. I can 
see that Miss D isnt covered for commuting. Miss D told Calpe and the claims investigator 
that at the time of the accident she was dropping papers off at her workplace. I think Calpe 
reasonably considered that travelling to the workplace was commuting, which was outside 
the policy terms. And so I think Calpe was entitled to then decline Miss Ds claim.
Calpe is seeking to recover its outlay for the other drivers claim from Miss D. I think the 
policy terms and conditions state that Miss D would have to pay her policy excess in the 
event of a claim made against her, up to the value of her excess. 
Miss Ds excess was £3,000 and Calpes outlay was £578. It initially included its £250 
investigation fee in this charge. But we dont think thats fair as we think this should be 
included in the insurers own costs and not be passed on to the consumer. So Calpe agreed 
to deduct this from its charge to Miss D. 
So I think its fair and reasonable for Calpe to ask Miss D to repay its outlay of £328. I note 
that Calpe has told us that its willing to agree a repayment plan with Miss D. I expect it to 
honour that commitment. 
Miss D was unhappy that Calpe hasnt renewed her policy. But this is Calpes commercial 
decision and not something that I can interfere with. I think its for Calpe to decide what risks 
it wishes to cover and to whom to offer cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman