DRN-2183527
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the service he was provided by his former motor insurer, esure 
Insurance Limited (esure) and also says that an error it made in relation to his no claims 
discount (NCD) resulted in him paying a higher premium to his new insurer. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that decision 
follows:
Mr F said esure wrote to him in December 2018 to say that it wasnt going to renew his 
policy which was coming up for renewal in January 2019 so he took out a policy with a 
different insurer. 
Mr F complained to esure about a number of issues including the fact that a claim on his 
policy had been closed as a fault claim instead of non- fault. esure upheld the complaint 
in March 2019 and said it had re-rated the 2018-2019 policy which had been affected by this 
and refunded his premiums and awarded him compensation. esure told Mr F if he was 
unhappy he can complain to us. 
Mr F continued to correspond with esure and in May 2019 it told him it would no longer 
correspond with him and that he should refer his complaint to us.
Around July 2019 Mr F found out from his new insurer that after it had re-rated his policy 
esure failed to update his NCD from three to six years. He called esure to ask for this to be 
rectified. 
esure accepted that a manual NCD letter confirming the six years should have been 
generated when the claim was re-rated. It provided Mr F with a new NCD letter to provide to 
his insurer and said it would pay interest on any premium refund he received from his insurer 
at a rate of 8%.
Mr F got in touch with esure again and said that his insurer was refusing to re-rate his policy 
based on him having six years NCD instead of three. He said his insurer told him he would 
have to cancel his existing policy and take out a new one which would cost almost £800 in 
addition to what he had already paid. He said he wanted esure to pay for that as it was due 
to its error. 
esure said it shouldve issued the NCD letter sooner and paid Mr F £100 compensation for 
this error. It said it hadnt seen any evidence from his new insurer that hed have to cancel 
his existing policy and take out a new one but, in any event, this is something he would have 
to complaint to his new insurer about. 
Mr F continued to call esure about his complaint and also to say that his emails had been 
blocked so he was unable to email his concerns over. He said esure had told him the 
complaint was already with us, which wasnt the case, as it was a new complaint.
esure said it had blocked Mr Fs emails because it had received a very large number of 
them. It also asked that we look at this alongside another complaint that we were looking at 
for Mr F but as Mr F hadnt raised this complaint with us at that stage this wasnt possible. 
Mr F then brought his complaint to us. He raised a number of issues with us including the 
following:
He said esure had made a similar error previously in 2017 and issued him with 
compensation and refunded his premiums after wrongly saying he had one years NCD 
instead of three.
He says esure didnt fully comply with a subject access request he had made (DSAR) 
and also wrote to him with other customers details. 
He was unhappy esure blocked his email and phone number, without notice. He said he 
felt discriminated against and victimised because he has a disability, namely dyslexia, 
and that esure had taken away his right of free speech.
During his calls to esure its staff had been rude to him and were laughing about him.
After he complained to us esure wrote to him asking for further payment but later said 
the letter was sent in error. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld and 
that the actions esure took and the compensation it offered was fair and reasonable. He also 
didnt think its staff had been rude to Mr F.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said our investigator didnt 
address his main complaint which was that esure had victimised him by blocking his emails 
despite being told he has a disability. He also said the investigator failed to address the fact 
that esure was keeping third party account details illegally and had also asked him to pay 
£450. 
Before I issued this decision I asked esure for its file and for its calls with Mr F in relation to 
the issue of his NCD. I also asked whether Mr F had said that he has a disability and 
whether it took that into account when communicating with him.
 
esure provided a further five calls and some screenshots from its file. It said that Mr F had 
referred to his disability in his emails but due to the volume of emails it had received from 
him it wasnt sure when this was first raised. It said after it blocked Mr Fs emails he created 
a further three email addresses to correspond with it. It said it provided Mr F with I direct 
phone number to make contact but due to the large number of emails this wasnt tenable. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im considering 
upholding it in part. 
Mr F has made two other complaints to our organisation and these were considered by other 
ombudsmen. I am not able to revisit those complaints and in this decision I will only consider 
Mr Fs complaint regarding the delayed NCD letter and his communications with esure.
The NCD letteresure has accepted that it shouldve issued an updated NCD letter sooner. From what Ive 
seen this was sent to Mr F in July 2019- not long after he complained to esure and I think 
this was reasonable. 
From what I understand when Mr Fs policy came to an end his NCD was still three years 
because his claim was still open- so this was affecting his NCD. This claim was closed in 
March 2019 so the earliest a new NCD couldve been issued was then, or in any event after 
his policy had lapsed. I think even if the new NCD letter had been issued in March 2019, this 
wouldve meant that his new policy wouldve still been taken out with a three year NCD 
certificate - as it was taken out in January 2019. So his new insurer wouldve had to re-rate 
his policy mid-year in any event. 
So I think the delay hasnt put Mr F in a worse position than he wouldve otherwise been in, 
in terms of his new insurers handling of his policy. Having said that I think he has been 
caused some inconvenience by having to get in touch with esure himself in order to request 
the new NCD letter. I think esures offer of £100 for this is fair and reasonable. 
I also think that esure cannot be held responsible for his new insurers actions i.e. the fact 
that it is making him take out a new policy. I, therefore, agree that this is something that 
needs to be raised with the new insurer directly. If Mr F is unhappy with their response he 
can bring his complaint to us. 
esures communication with Mr F 
esure said it blocked Mr Fs emails after it issued its response to his previous complaint. Mr 
F says it never told him it had blocked his email address. From what Ive seen esure wrote to 
Mr F in May 2019 and said it would not enter into further communication with him. It didnt 
specify it was blocking his emails and I dont think it necessarily had to.
However, from what Ive seen, it wasnt until later that it gave Mr F a reason as to why his 
emails had been blocked i.e. because it says it received a large number of emails from him. I 
dont think this was fair and reasonable and I think it would have been better to have 
explained this earlier. I think this has caused Mr F unnecessary distress.  
esure accepts that Mr F said that he has a disability but it didnt say that it made any further 
enquiries in relation to it. I think it wouldve been reasonable to ask him about this and try to 
find a method of communicating that was acceptable to both parties. 
I also havent seen evidence of the volume of emails esure is referring to because it hasnt 
provided copies of these to me. But I understand that these may relate to previous 
complaints Mr F had with it. Mr F has provided some of his email exchanges with esure but 
not many.
As I havent been provided with evidence of the large volume of emails esure is referring to I 
cant say that it was acting fairly and reasonably in blocking Mr Fs emails. But even if it had 
provided these and there was a large volume as it alleges, I still think it should have been 
more flexible in the way it communicated with Mr F. 
After esure blocked Mr Fs emails it initially gave him a phone number to call but later said 
he could only communicate with it by post. esure said this was because of the large volume 
of emails it was receiving- which as I said above I havent seen. For the same reasons as I 
gave above, I dont think this was fair and reasonable and I think it shouldve been more 
flexible in its communications with him and tried to come up with a solution that was 
acceptable to both parties. Mr F said when he did speak to esure it told him that his complaint was with us which he 
says wasnt the case at that stage. I think this is another stage where esures communication 
with Mr F could have been better. esure was right that a complaint was already with us- but it 
wasnt this one. As Mr F said, in his experience he can only come to us if he receives a final 
response from esure or if eight weeks have passed since his complaint. As neither had 
happened at that stage, I can understand why he was confused by what esure had told him. 
I think esure should have been clearer with him or issued a final response. Mr F says it 
wasnt until after he raised this with esure that it sent him a letter saying it was its final 
response and that he could refer his complaint to us. 
Mr F said he felt discriminated against and victimised. I can understand why Mr F feels this 
way, and I do think esure hasnt quite grasped how its actions have made Mr F feel.  So Im 
considering awarding Mr F compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him. 
The calls
I also listened to the calls provided to me and I didnt get the impression that esures staff 
were laughing at Mr F. I also listened to a specific call between Mr F and the complaints 
handler that had dealt with Mr Fs previous complaint where he said she was rude to him 
and called him a nuisance. Though I dont think the handlers tone was unprofessional I think 
the call could have been handled better by allowing Mr F to explain why he was calling. I 
think this would have been useful especially as she was already familiar with his complaint- 
whereas the other handlers he had been speaking to werent. As a result he had to explain 
his complaint each time he called- which mustve been frustrating for him. The call was short 
and ended quite abruptly when the handler hung up on Mr F.
Also, in a further call between Mr F and another handler (the date was unfortunately not 
provided) where Mr F was emailed over a copy of his NCD letter I did find that the handler 
was talking over Mr F on several occasions and interrupted him and so I thought that call 
couldve also been handled better.
Other issues
Mr F said esure didnt deal with his DSAR appropriately and also sent him emails containing 
third party details.  I havent seen any evidence of the emails Mr F has referred to but in any 
event I think that would be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr F 
says esure delayed complying with his DSAR and failed to disclose a particular call to him. I 
havent been provided with any evidence in relation to the DSAR but even if I were and this 
supports what Mr F has said, as I am already considering awarding Mr F compensation for 
the overall distress and inconvenience esure caused him this would be included in my 
overall award. 
Later in August 2019 Mr F received a letter from esure asking for him to make a payment to 
it. esure said this was sent in error and should be ignored. Bearing in mind that some of Mr 
Fs previous complaints involved demands for payment that werent correct I think esure 
shouldve taken more care to ensure this wasnt repeated. 
For the reasons Ive given above I think esure has caused Mr F distress and inconvenience 
in its communication with him and I think it should pay him a further £250 compensation for 
this.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons above, I am considering upholding this complaint in part. esure Insurance 
Limited must pay Mr F a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to provide any comments or evidence they 
may have in response to that decision by 1 September 2020. 
Mr F responded, however he didnt comment on the contents of the provisional decision. His 
comments related to our organisations handling of his complaint which is something we are 
dealing with separately so I wont deal with those comments in this decision. 
Our investigator responded to Mr F and asked him to provide any comments he may have in 
relation to the provisional decision by 10 September 2020. Mr F hasnt provided a further 
response. 
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. Our investigator wrote to it on 3 September 
2020 to say that the original deadline to respond to the provisional decision had passed and 
to let us know if it had any comments by 10 September 2020. After receiving no response he 
wrote to esure again on 9 September 2020 to say that if no response was provided by the 
following day I would proceed with my final decision. To date we have received no response. 
As we have provided sufficient time for both parties to respond I have decided to proceed 
with my final decision. And as neither party has provided any comments relating to the 
contents of my provisional decision I have decided not to change any of the findings I made 
in that decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I am upholding this complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited must 
pay Mr F a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited must pay Mr F a further £250 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman