DRN-3697904
The complaint
Mr W complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on an asset protection insurance policy, and cancelled the policy.
Mr Ws represented by solicitors in his dealings with our service. Where I refer to Mr W in 
this decision, this includes his representatives.
Similarly, claim handling and the response to the complaint has been carried out by a 
representative acting for XL Catlin. Where I refer in this decision to XL Catlin, this includes 
these representatives.
What happened
Mr W purchased a property. During the course of the purchase, the sellers solicitors 
arranged an asset protection insurance policy, provided by XL Catlin. The policy provided 
cover to take action if access to the property was restricted by a third party.
When the third party prevented access, Mr W sought to claim on the policy. On reviewing the 
information available, XL Catlin declined cover for the claim and cancelled the policy. It said 
the details of how the access had previously been permitted by the third party hadnt been 
disclosed properly when the policy was taken out, and if it had been then XL Catlin wouldnt 
have offered the insurance policy.
Mr W complained to XL Catlin, and when it rejected this complaint, approached our service. 
Our investigator concluded XL Catlin had acted fairly when it said that reasonable care 
hadnt been taken when the policy was taken out. Mr W didnt agree so his complaint has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers (and their agents) to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer (or their agents) fail to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
An important point in my consideration of this complaint is that while the policy was in Mr Ws 
name, the policy was actually arranged by solicitors, who Ill refer to as R. 
R wasnt acting for Mr W during the purchase of the property. R was acting for the seller of 
the property, and was asked to arrange this policy (by the solicitors acting for Mr W in the 
purchase) because of information that was disclosed during the conveyancing process 
relating to access to the property. It isnt suggested that Mr W was provided with any 
proposal forms, statements of fact or other documentation showing what R told XL Catlin 
before the policy was taken out.
XL Catlin says a qualifying misrepresentation was made when R took out the policy, and that 
because of this, its entitled under CIDRA to cancel the policy back to inception, and treat it 
as if it never existed, meaning that any claim made isnt covered.
I therefore need to determine is whether R was acting on behalf of Mr W when it arranged 
the policy. I know Mr W doesnt think this is the case, as R wasnt representing him during 
the conveyancing and property purchase. 
I understand why Mr W would say this, but I do agree with XL Catlin here. The insurance, 
while arranged by R, was for Mr W. He was listed as the policyholder and the person who 
would receive the benefit of the insurance in the event of making a claim. Im satisfied that, 
for the purposes of CIDRA, and this complaint, R was acting as Mr Ws agent when it took 
out the policy. This meant R needed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent when it 
arranged the policy. 
There doesnt seem to be much dispute that R did make a qualifying misrepresentation 
when the policy was taken out, and that if this hadnt been made XL Catlin wouldnt have 
sold the policy. Ill address these points for completeness.
The statement which its said was answered incorrectly was The access way being insured 
has remained unobstructed and been used for more than 8 months without payment, 
permission or objection. R was asked whether it could Confirm or Cannot confirm this 
statement. R selected Confirm.
It appears to be accepted that R should have selected Cannot confirm. The access way 
being insured, from the evidence available, appears to have been used with the informal 
permission of the owner, rather than without permission. Either R answered incorrectly with 
the evidence it had at the time, or didnt have enough information to be able to confirm or not 
confirm the statement. 
Im satisfied either way that reasonable care wasnt taken when R confirmed this statement. 
Im also satisfied the wording of the statement is clear and unambiguous. I conclude that a 
qualifying misrepresentation, as defined by CIDRA, was made when R took out the policy on 
Mr Ws behalf.
XL Catlin hasnt argued that the misrepresentation was made deliberately or recklessly. 
Theres no evidence R deliberately or recklessly confirmed the relevant statement when it 
couldnt do so. CIDRA says if thats the case, the misrepresentation is careless. I agree that 
this should be considered a careless misrepresentation. 
XL Catlins provided evidence from its underwriting team that if the actual details of the use 
of the access and the informal permission from the owner had been disclosed, then it 
wouldnt have offered the policy. Its therefore cancelled the policy back to inception, and 
refunded the premium paid. This is what CIDRA says XL Catlin can do in the event that a qualifying misrepresentation is 
made carelessly and the insurer wouldnt have offered cover but for that misrepresentation. 
I conclude that XL Catlins actions were reasonable and in accordance with the provisions of 
CIDRA. As the policy has been fairly cancelled, any claims made on the policy wouldnt be 
covered. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman