DRN-3191878
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to NatWest throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
They didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I see Mr and Mrs Hs representative gives several reasons for the PPI apparently being mis-
sold and Ive considered them all. However, these include Mrs H sickness protection with her 
job at the time and its implied she therefore didnt need the cover in the PPI. But its 
important for me to point out that although this was a joint mortgage, only Mr H was 
protected by the PPI. It seems Mrs H didnt take up the offer and so they proceeded on the 
basis of the policy being single, rather than joint, cover. 
Mr and Mrs H dont specifically allege that they didnt know about the policy or that they were 
told they were compelled to have it, so I think they bought the cover for Mr H because it was 
a form of protection they wanted to have. This is supported on their mortgage application 
where they expressed an interest in buying the PPI  and I see they also both signed a 
direct debit instruction to have the PPI premiums leave their bank account each month. I 
think the evidence is clear that they agreed to the PPI and I think NatWest properly obtained 
their consent.
Theres no evidence NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H as part of an advised 
sale, so it was for Mr and Mrs H themselves to check that the PPI was right for them. 
NatWests responsibility was to provide information that was clear enough for Mr and Mrs H 
to make an informed choice.
Its certainly possible the information NatWest gave to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI, 
particularly around some of the exclusions and limitations, wasnt as clear as it might have 
been. However, I think its likely they knew what the policy was for, who was covered and the 
price. And I think they probably opted for only single cover after assessing their requirements 
of that time. 
I also think the PPI wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were most likely given at the point of sale. There was nothing 
about Mr Hs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim. It 
also looks like it was affordable for them and, as the mortgage was insured against Mr and 
Mrs Hs home, it could have been useful if something went wrong. 
I note Mr and Mrs Hs representative has sent in some information about him suffering back 
pain in 1995 and hypertension in 1996. No evidence was provided in support and whilst Im 
sure these could have been issues of concern at the time, I note they were around eight 
years prior to the PPI sale. Ive seen nothing that shows they would have been relevant to 
any of the exclusions in the policy. The representative also pointed to potential policy 
exclusions for back injuries and stress. However, this doesnt seem right as the policy rules 
in this case contained no such exclusions.
In short, I think Mr H would have been able to claim for most eventualities and because of all 
this, I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have declined the cover even if NatWest could have 
done a better job at explaining certain things.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the complaint. 
This means National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
NatWest has shown us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this case was less than half 
the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
my decisionI do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any award in favour of them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman