DRN-3191780
The complaint
Mr P complains that Billing Finance Ltd terminated his hire purchase agreement and 
possessed his car without his knowledge. He wants the outstanding debt written off.
What happened
Mr P obtained a car in June 2019 through a hire purchase agreement with Billing Finance. 
Mr P stopped making payments in March 2020. He explained that he was in prison  and 
that he couldnt let Billing Finance know of his circumstances beforehand. He said a family 
member phoned Billing Finance to tell it where Mr P was.
Mr P says he only found out that his car had been possessed and sold by Billing Finance 
when he was released. He says he received contact from a debt collection agency about 
repaying the debt of £8,629.32.
Billing Finance said the family member did not have authority on Mr Ps account. But that it 
wrote to Mr P at the address they gave with a third-party authority form. They didnt receive 
this back. In May 2020 it realised the car was no longer insured. This was a breach of the 
hire purchase agreement. And, as payments werent being made and it hadnt heard from 
Mr P, it terminated the agreement and collected the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that Billing Finance had acted unfairly when it terminated the agreement. And she 
didnt think it had disclosed any information to the third party when it collected the car.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he couldnt do anything about the payments for 
the car, or for the insurance policy, and that no one could contact him. He said 
Billing Finance wouldnt discuss anything with the family member that called on his behalf, 
but that it discussed everything with them when it collected the car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr P. This has been a difficult time for him, and I appreciate he feels he 
has been left with a large debt when he was helpless to do anything about it. Im sorry to 
disappoint him, but I cant order Billing Finance to write off the debt. I dont find it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably for the following reasons:
Mr P was contractually obligated to make the monthly payments and to insure the car.
A family member contacted Billing Finance to explain Mr Ps circumstances and why 
payments had stopped. There was no third-party authority on the account, so Billing Finance 
could not discuss the agreement with the family member. It couldnt verify whether the 
information it was provided with  including Mr Ps current whereabouts  was correct. But it 
tried to help by sending a third-party authority form to the address it had been given. In doing 
so, I think it acted reasonably. The address included Mr Ps prisoner number so, even 
though he says he was moved around, the letter should have reached him. 
Even if Mr P had completed the authority form and returned it, or if hed been able to contact 
Billing Finance himself, Im not sure that the overall outcome would have been any different. 
I say this because Mr P couldnt make the monthly payments. I find it unlikely that 
Billing Finance would have agreed to freeze payments for more than a few months, meaning 
arrears would have built up on the account. Whilst Mr P has been left with a large debt, 
I think it could have been much larger had Billing Finance not terminated the agreement 
when it did.
Mr P wasnt in a position to continue to pay the monthly insurance premiums, so the 
insurance policy lapsed. It was a requirement of the agreement that the car was insured, so 
I dont think Billing Finance was wrong to terminate the agreement once it knew the car 
wasnt insured.
Im satisfied that the termination process took place in line with the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. Billing Finance sent notice to the address it held in its records. Whilst it had 
been told by a third party that Mr P wasnt living at that address, it had tried to contact him at 
the address it had been provided with and hadnt received a reply. In the circumstances, 
I dont find it was unreasonable to send correspondence to the address it held in its records.
The car was being stored at the address of the family member. I dont doubt that a 
conversation took place when the car was collected. But Ive not seen evidence to show that 
any information was disclosed to the family member.
I am sorry for the position in which Mr P finds himself but, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I cannot uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman