DRN-4284042
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering his car. The policy covered him 
for social, domestic, pleasure and commuting. 
Mr C had a primary job which he used the car to commute to. He also had a secondary role 
delivering goods, but he wasnt doing that job. When he had previously done it, he held a 
separate policy for that activity.
In January 2023 he was involved in a collision that he admitted fault for. Advantage paid the 
third partys claim. Mr C didnt claim for his own damage.
Advantage cancelled Mr Cs policy with seven days notice in March 2023 as it said he was 
using the car for delivery purposes. It charged him £138 for the balance of the years 
premium because hed used the policy by making a claim.
Mr C was unhappy and complained. Advantage didnt uphold his complaint so Mr C brought 
his complaint to this service. He asks that Advantage refund him the £138 he paid, and 
compensate him for his distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. He said he didnt think Advantage had proved 
that Mr C was using the car to deliver goods, so he didnt think that it was fair for Advantage 
to cancel his policy. He thought Advantage should remove the cancellation markers for all 
internal and external databases and confirm this to Mr C, it should refund the difference in 
premiums of what Mr C paid and what he had to pay for his new insurance plus interest at 
8% simple. He also said Advantage should pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience it 
caused.
Mr C agreed with the view, but Advantage didnt respond. Because Advantage didnt 
respond, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
In its correspondence with Mr C, Advantage said it was cancelling his policy because:
we have found your car has been used outside the scope of your cover. This is 
because you use[d] this vehicle to deliver parcels [for a particular company].
Our investigator asked Advantage to prove this but it didnt provide anything further.
Mr C clarified that he did have the ability to work for the particular parcel company as a 
secondary role, but he was able to prove that he hadnt done this work. He also showed that 
he had access to another policy specifically covering his activities for parcel delivery in case 
he was carrying it out.
Advantage provided a further response from a senior underwriter which said:
I can confirm an occupation within delivery driving coupled with business use on the 
policy falls outside of our acceptance threshold and therefore we are unable to 
update the policy and continue cover for Mr C.
I have two concerns with that statement. The first is that Mr Cs primary job wasnt in the field 
of delivery driving. The second is that it seems to assume that Advantages policy included 
cover for business use, which it didnt.
Accepting that Advantage has the right to cancel the policy under its terms and conditions, it 
seems to me that in Mr Cs case it has used reasoning that isnt fair. 
Having looked at the details Mr C gave Advantage when he applied for cover, I cant see that 
a secondary occupation was asked for. Theres no record of this on the statement of fact. So 
it seems unfair that Advantage cancelled his policy because it came aware that he may have 
another job. And without checking or verifying this with Mr C it proceeded to cancel his 
policy.
I dont think this is fair of Advantage. 
In addition, Mr C has paid an annual premium for his policy which he wasnt able to fully use 
because Advantage cancelled it a few months before it was due to end. I can see that 
Advantage charged Mr C the remaining premium for this time, which its entitled to do as it 
had already paid out a claim under the policy, but this means Mr C paid for a period of cover 
that he received no benefit for. 
Normally I would ask Advantage to return this money to Mr C, but in this case Mr C has had 
to pay a much higher amount for cover from his next insurer. So I think the fair thing to do is 
to ask Advantage to pay the difference between what Mr C had been paying for his cover 
with Advantage, and what he is paying for cover with another provider. 
Mr C has indicated that his costs have more than doubled on a monthly basis, so I think its 
fair that I require Advantage to cover this difference as I think its reasonably Advantages 
fault that he is paying more. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr C and Advantage now need to liaise about how much more 
he had been paying, and Advantage needs to pay Mr C the difference between what he was 
paying for cover from Advantage, and the price he is paying. And I think its fair to require 
Advantage to cover the difference from the date it cancelled his policy to the time it makes 
payment, plus interest at 8% simple.
Mr C has also been left in a position where he needs to disclose this cancellation to insurers 
in the future, and I dont think hes been left in a fair position as I dont think Advantage 
reasonably cancelled his policy.
I think the fair approach here is that Advantage removes or amends records that it cancelled 
Mr Cs policy both from its own records and any external databases its updated. It needs to 
confirm this to Mr C and tell him he doesnt need to tell insurers about this cancellation in the 
future.Its clear to me that Mr C has found the experience inconvenient so I also think Advantage 
should pay him £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr C the difference between his previous premium and the new premium hes 
been paying, from the date of cancellation to the date Advantage makes payment. 
Interest at 8% simple should also be added.
Remove details of the cancellation from its records and any external databases its 
updated. Advantage must write to Mr C to tell him its done this and that he doesnt 
need to tell other insurers about this cancellation in future.
Pay Mr C £100 for his inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman