DRN-3782009
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice given by Corville Financial Services Ltd (Corville) to transfer
defined benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a Self-Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable and believes this has caused
him a financial loss.
Mr M is represented in this matter by a third party (the representative).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2022. Ive recapped the background below:
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit (DB) pension schemes 
when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was eventually closed to further benefit 
accrual from 31 March 2017.
Concerned about what the above announcement meant for the security of the benefits hed 
accrued in the BSPS, Mr M contacted a firm Ill refer to as Firm S in early 2016. As Firm S 
didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on DB transfers, it referred Mr M to Corville.
Corville completed a fact find in August 2016 to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances. To summarise, the following was recorded:
Mr M was 53 years old, married and in good health. He had two financially 
dependent children, one of whom would be permanently dependent due to disability.
Mr M was employed earning around £30,000 pa. His wife stayed at home to care for 
their disabled son. After expenditure, Mr and Mrs M had £200 left over each month.
Mr and Mrs M owned their own home, valued at around £160,000, with an 
outstanding mortgage of £40,000. 
Mr M held £2,000 in cash savings and had an outstanding loan of £5,000, for which 
his monthly repayments were £200.
In addition to his BSPS pension, Mr M held a personal pension (PP), valued at 
£40,000. He intended to retire at age 65.
Further to a conversation with Mr M, Corville produced a Risk Profile Summary Report and 
concluded that Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) was Moderate. 
As at 15 August 2016, Mr M had accrued 30 years and 2 months qualifying service in the 
BSPS. The scheme offered him a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £233,216.45.
Corville arrange for a third party to produce two Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) reports for 
Mr M, one assuming retirement at age 65 and the other at age 55.
In September 2016, Corville sent Mr M its suitability report and enclosed a TVAS assuming a 
retirement age of 65. Corville first said that based on a pure economic comparison, Mr M 
shouldnt transfer. Specifically, it referred to guarantees Mr M would lose if he transferred 
and the unachievable investment return (15.2%) required to match the potential income 
available from the BSPS. However, Corville went on to say that, as Mr M had confirmed that 
flexibility with his pension outweighed any economic considerations, it agreed there was 
evidence to suggest that transferring to a PP was in his best interests for the following 
reasons:
Mr M wanted control over when and how he took his pension. He might take higher 
income in the early years of retirement when he expected spending to be higher. He 
also wanted to know where his pension was invested and receive ongoing 
investment advice.
Mr M wanted to access benefits earlier than age 65. At age 55, he wanted the option 
of semi-retiring to help his wife care for their permanently disabled child.
The potential death benefits would be higher, and Mr M wanted to be able to leave a 
lump sum to his wife and children rather than an income. He was also concerned that 
if he or his wife died early, his pension fund would die with them.
Mr M was concerned about the funding of the BSPS and didnt feel he could leave 
his pension where it was.
Corville said, You accept the information we have provided to you and our initial 
reservations, but after taking into account the competing reasons you have given you have 
decided you would like to transfer. I am therefore recommending you take the transfer value 
which will then be invested in a personal pension ().
Corville advised Mr M to transfer to a SIPP. In terms of investment strategy, it recommended 
a Model Portfolio approach. Following the transfer, Corville said Firm S would assume 
responsibility for ongoing investment advice and place Mr Ms funds in the Tatton Managed 
(OBSR) Balanced portfolio.
Mr M accepted Corvilles recommendation and his BSPS CETV was paid into a new SIPP 
on 21 December 2016. Once adviser fees were paid, £229,125.48 was invested in the 
BlackRock Cash Fund. The servicing rights to Mr Ms SIPP were later transferred from 
Corville to Firm S. 
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits 
pension scheme, BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being 
satisfied.
In December 2019, Mr Ms representative complained to Corville about the suitability of its 
September 2016 advice. It made the point that Mr Ms BSPS benefits, which couldve been 
carried forward into BSPS2, were highly unlikely to be matched through the SIPP Corville 
had recommended. 
Corville responded saying that, at the time of its advice, the future of the BSPS was under 
review and subject to consultation. It said that even the Trustees believed at the time that the most likely outcome was that the BSPS wouldnt continue, so it seemed probable that the 
scheme would enter the PPF. Corville pointed out that BSPS2 wasnt an available option at 
the time of its advice and maintained that it gave suitable advice.
Unhappy with Corvilles response, Mr Ms representative referred the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the matter and didnt feel that Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld. She said that although the investment return required for the SIPP to 
match benefits available under Mr Ms BSPS pension or the PPF was high, retiring early and 
taking a cash lump sum were Mr Ms priorities and compelling reasons for transferring. 
Notwithstanding this, she said the available evidence indicated that Corville didnt advise   
Mr M to transfer and that it was Mr M whod been keen to do so.
Mr Ms representative responded and disagreed. It said Corvilles personal recommendation 
had been for Mr M to transfer and, overall, its reasons for doing so werent sufficient to make 
transferring suitable in the circumstances ()
Mr M has confirmed via his representative that following the transfer, he drew down money 
from his SIPP to carry out upgrades to his house and garden. He remains in fulltime 
employment with British Steel and intends to retire at age 65.
Because no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
And my provisional findings were as follows:
At the time of Corvilles advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out 
the principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 as set out in the 
FCAs Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). These required Corville to gather 
sufficient information from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives; that Mr M 
could financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives and that Mr M had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
I dont think all the factors in deciding suitability were met in this case. Im not satisfied 
Corville went far enough in terms of gathering and recording enough information about 
Mr Ms circumstances; adequately exploring and interrogating his objectives or satisfactorily 
evaluating, explaining, and documenting the associated risks with transferring. Because of 
this I dont think it was reasonable for Corville to conclude that transferring was the most 
appropriate course of action for Mr M to take.
DB schemes like Mr Ms BSPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving 
these up and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer. Under 19.1.6 the COBS rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests. 
Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
So, Corville shouldve only considered a transfer to a SIPP if there were compelling reasons 
why, instead of maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests  merely meeting his apparent objectives wouldnt, in my view, be enough. 
Generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.Was Mr M advised to transfer?
Theres some dispute about whether Corville advised Mr M to transfer. Corville says that it 
advised against Mr M doing so, while Mr Ms representative says that Corville clearly 
provided a positive recommendation to transfer. Having carefully considered the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that Corville advised Mr M to transfer out of the BSPS to a new SIPP. 
Although Corville initially expressed some misgivings about the prospect of Mr M 
transferring, its clear from its suitability report that, despite these reservations, its view was 
that there were sufficient reasons to suggest transferring would be in Mr Ms best interests. 
And its because of this that Corville went on to say, I am therefore recommending you take 
the transfer value which will then be invested in a [PP] (). I dont think theres any 
ambiguity here about what Corville was advising Mr M to do.  
Ive considered the undated signed letter which Mr M says Corville asked him to prepare 
after issuing him with its suitability report. However, this hasnt persuaded me to alter my 
view on Corvilles advice. The letter addressed to Corville said, Following our meeting () I 
accept your recommendation regarding my [BSPS pension]. However, taking into 
consideration the flexibility a [PP] could provide me with, and the death benefits you 
explained, I would still like to proceed with the transfer. A handwritten note was included on 
the letter saying, concerns regarding going into PPF has [sic] steered my decision and the 
flexibility of a private pension fund.
Mr M says he felt uneasy writing the letter, but as he lacked the skills and experience to 
make his own decision about what to do with his pension, he did as he was asked by 
Corville  the adviser hed appointed to help him make this decision. 
The wording of the letter does, in my opinion, create some confusion about the nature of 
Corvilles advice, particularly as it appeared to contradict what was set out in the suitability 
report  namely that Corville did recommend that Mr M transfer. Read in isolation, the letter 
could be interpreted as Corville having advised Mr M against transferring, while Mr M 
remained determined to proceed anyway. However, this isnt something Im satisfied Corville 
expressed in terms which were clear and not misleading, such that Mr M wouldve 
reasonably understood that it was only facilitating the transfer at Mr Ms request and not 
because it thought it was the best course of action for him to take.
I think that whats captured in the Client Review document Corville completed for Mr M, the 
purpose of which was to capture some of the key considerations in its advice process, 
supports the fact that Corville advised Mr M to transfer. Specifically, Corville confirmed in the 
document that Mr M wasnt an insistent client and wrote N/A over the following wording:
Where a recommendation to transfer cannot be made, but the client wishes to proceed 
against your advice, have the consequences of proceeding against your advice been 
documented and explained ()? If the client still wishes to proceed, has it been recorded 
() that the client wishes to proceed on an insistent customer basis? () Has a separate 
document been prepared which communicates the reasons, risks, discussion, and outcome 
of not accepting the personal recommendation been prepared? ().
Corville marking these statements Not Applicable, suggests to me that it didnt consider 
that, by transferring, Mr M was going against its own advice. But if it did, there was a 
requirement for it to document and explain this to Mr M clearly and consistently. As I havent 
seen anything to this effect, Im satisfied that Corville advised Mr M to transfer, and so Ill be 
considering the complaint on this basis.
Mr Ms position at the time of Corvilles advice Corvilles advice pre-dated the outcome of the consultation on the future of the BSPS, and 
so Mr M hadnt yet received information relating to the time to choose exercise which 
began in late 2017. Its Corvilles position that Mr M was sufficiently concerned about the 
future of the BSPS to make him keen to transfer. But Mr M was nevertheless seeking advice 
on his options, and as he wasnt categorised as an insistent client Corville could be confident 
that he would be acting upon, or at least taking into account, its advice.
At the time of the advice, Mr M was 53 years old and had accrued significant qualifying 
service in the BSPS hed held with his employer of over 30 years. Given how long Mr M had 
been working, its understandable that he may have been interested in retiring earlier than 
age 65. However, other than his state pension entitlement and a very modest PP, Mr Ms 
BSPS pension was his only retirement provision. Although I havent seen any note or 
evidence of an enquiry by Corville about Mr M's wifes retirement provision on file, 
I understand that other than her state pension entitlement, she only had a small PP. So, 
Mr Ms BSPS pension represented the largest proportion of his and his wifes combined 
wealth and future retirement income. They also had two financially dependent children (aged 
10 and 14), one of whom was disabled and would be permanently dependent. Im also 
aware that Mr and Mrs M were receiving benefits in the form of disability living allowance, 
carers allowance, working tax credits and child benefit. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt have other sizable assets they could rely on if Mr Ms transfer didnt 
work out, and as they had minimal savings and an outstanding mortgage of £40,000, it 
seems to me that Mr Ms BSPS pension was his most valuable asset. It provided a 
guaranteed income for the future with increases; a spouses pension for Mrs M should Mr M 
pass away and provision for any qualifying dependents. 
By transferring, Mr M was giving up what was intended to provide a secure income in 
retirement in favour of an uncertain income largely reliant on the investment performance of 
a new arrangement. In my view, this represented a relatively risky strategy, which shouldve 
made Corville proceed with caution. I also dont think Mr Ms situation lent itself to taking 
risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr M, a standard retail investor, may have 
been open to taking some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant amount. 
While having regard for Mr Ms circumstances, objectives, ATR and capacity for loss, it was 
Corvilles responsibility to evaluate the merits and shortcomings of transferring, while 
considering alternatives, to determine the best course of action for Mr M, especially in terms 
of what would place him in the best possible position in retirement. 
Based on Mr Ms answers to a risk profile and its own assessment of capacity for loss, 
Corville determined that Mr M had a moderate ATR and could absorb any losses without a 
material effect on [his] standard of living. Regarding ATR, Mr M said hed describe his 
typical attitude when making important financial decisions to be fairly cautious, and in 
response to questions about ATR, he answered in between to six out of eighteen 
questions.
Given some of Mr Ms answers, I can see how the results may have led Corville to 
categorise him as having a moderate risk profile. However, some of Mr Ms answers were 
inconsistent and Corville shouldve recognised and queried this give the discussions it had 
with Mr M about his circumstances. For example, Mr M was recorded as an experienced 
investor on the risk profile, but this wasnt reflected in the information Corville collected about 
his background. Given his lack of investment experience, significant assets and any clear 
indication he was prepared  or able  to give up a largely certain outcome for a gamble, I 
think Mr M would more accurately have been described as having a moderately cautious 
ATR.
In terms of Mr Ms capacity for loss, I find Corvilles assessment lacking. Its not clear to me on what basis it was able to be confident that Mr M could absorb any losses without a 
material effect on [his] standard of living. Again, there were inconsistencies with what was 
recorded compared with what Corville knew of Mr Ms circumstances and financial position. 
For example, no was recorded as Mr Ms answer to the following questions: Is this 
investment a significant proportion of your total wealth? and Do you have any dependants 
who rely on you financially?. But as Corville knew from discussions, Mr Ms BSPS pension 
did represent most of his wealth and he had two dependants. Theres nothing to suggest 
Corville made any attempt to address these inconsistencies, and in my view, this resulted in 
an inaccurate appraisal of the investment risk Mr M was prepared and able to take on.
Financial viability 
An important part of assessing the viability of a DB transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits that are being given up by transferring out of the DB scheme. 
And that needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including the 
investors ATR, financial circumstances, and objectives. 
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator requires a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1. compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under the ceding 
arrangement with the benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement;
2. ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3. give the retail client a copy of the comparison, drawing the retail client's attention to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms personal recommendation, in good 
time, and in any case no later than when the key features document is provided; and
4. take reasonable steps to ensure that the retail client understands the firm's 
comparison and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say the comparison should:
1. take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding arrangement and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
5. where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to the 
ceding arrangements normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that arrangement.
In view of this, I would expect to see that a TVAS was produced outlining the estimated
annual investment return (critical yield) required on Mr Ms CETV in order to provide benefits
of equal value to the estimated benefits under the BSPS and PPF at relevant intervals 
Mr Ms scheme Normal Retirement Age (NRA), age 65, and his desired retirement date, age
55. Corville obtained two TVAS reports - one assuming retirement at age 65 and another at
age 55 and 65. From what Ive seen, only a copy of the first TVAS (assuming retirement at
age 65) was provided to Mr M, and its the critical yield figures from this TVAS which werequoted in Corvilles suitability report.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the
advice was given in this case.
As set out in the TVAS shared with Mr M, the critical yield required to match Mr Ms BSPS
pension benefits at age 65 was 15.2% pa if he took a full pension and 13.4% if he took tax
free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available
through the PPF at age 65 was 11% pa if Mr M took a full pension and 10.9% pa if he took
TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 3.9% for 12 years to
retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
Given the above, I think its reasonable to assume the critical yield for retirement at age 55
would be considerably higher. As Ive said, I cant see that Corville provided the critical yield
figures for retirement at age 55 to Mr M. Its not immediately clear why, especially given that
accessing benefits early was one of the reasons Corville said transferring was in Mr Ms best
interests. Without this information Im not satisfied that Mr M was placed in a position where
he could properly consider the potential implications of transferring to retire early and make
an informed decision about whether pursuing this objective was realistic and worthwhile.
Ive reviewed the second TVAS capturing the critical yield figures for retirement at age 55. It
recorded the critical yield required to match Mr Ms BSPS pension benefits at age 55 as 99%
pa if he took a full pension and 77.3% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical
yield to match the benefits available through the PPF was recorded as 102.7% if Mr M took a
full pension and 101.9% pa if he took TFC and a reduced pension. Im not satisfied these
figures are entirely correct, especially since the critical yield figures for retirement at age 65
captured in the second TVAS are noticeably different to those recorded in the first. However,
as Ive said, given the critical yield figures for retirement at age 65, which Corville based its
advice on, I think its reasonable to assume the critical yield for retirement at age 55 would
be much higher. Corville shouldve brought this to Mr Ms attention and clearly recorded it in 
the suitability report, however theres nothing to indicate it did.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate,
what Corville determined was Mr M's ATR and the term to retirement. There would be little
point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through the BSPS only to achieve, at
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield
was 10.9%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value
than the BSPS at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his recorded ATR. This
would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF. Corville itself said that it
considered the critical yields to match the scheme benefits to be unachievable, but I dont
think it went far enough in terms of clearly setting out that there was a very real and
significant risk that Mr M could be worse off given the critical yields involved and what it
shouldve recognised given his ATR and capacity for loss.
Corville didnt produce any cashflow models to show that by transferring Mr M wouldve been
able to meet his needs despite the high critical yields involved. But thats not surprising given
the absence of any evidence showing that Corville tried to establish what, in financial terms,
Mr Ms specific income needs in retirement were likely to be. As a result, I think Corville
failed to meet the regulators requirement that its advice took into account Mr Ms relevant
circumstances. Im also conscious that the main purpose for a pension is to provide anincome in retirement. Other considerations, like death benefits are secondary to that,
particularly where, as here, there was nothing to suggest Mr M was in ill health, such that it
wasnt expected that his BSPS pension would need to support him for a long time.
Ive considered illustration Corville shared with Mr M based on him transferring to a SIPP,
but I dont think this provided Mr M with meaningful information which wouldve assisted him
any more than the TVAS did about the position he could find himself in at retirement if he
transferred. Like the TVAS, the illustration showed that even if the level of investment return
on Mr Ms CETV exceeded the regulators upper projection rate of 8% pa, the annual
pension this could provide at age 65, assuming no TFC was taken, would be less than half
of the pension hed be guaranteed under the BSPS. The position was similar where
maximum TFC was taken.
Although a transfer wont always be unsuitable even if the critical yields are high, it does give
an indication of the degree of risk involved in the transaction and whether the transfer value
represents good value in return for the benefits being given up. Given that Mr M was likely to
receive retirement benefits of a substantially lower value, for this reason alone I dont think
transferring out of the BSPS was in Mr Ms best interests. Nevertheless, financial viability
isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. My understanding
of Corvilles position is that the basis of its recommendation was the benefit transferring had
for Mr M in terms of other objectives being met.
Concerns about the financial stability of the BSPS and benefits entering the PPF
Corville says that Mr M was very worried about the prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF,
and this is what led to him seeking financial advice. Up until seeking Corvilles advice, Mr M
says that everything hed heard about the PPF and any prospect of a modified BSPS
(BSPS2) had been very negative. Although this might suggest that, at the time, Mr M may
have already been leaning towards transferring for this reason alone, Corville still had a
significant and overriding responsibility to give Mr M a fair and balanced assessment of the
situation; explaining what it might mean for him specifically and providing a recommendation
based on what was in his best interests. As Mr Ms financial adviser, Corville ought to have
explored, interrogated and, where necessary, corrected Mr Ms views about the PPF and
any prospect of BSPS2, ensuring that any decision he was making about transferring was
based on a sound understanding of his options and the features, risks and benefits of the
these. I cant see that this happened here or that Corville made any concerted attempt to
allay Mr Ms misapprehensions. The extent to which Mr Ms concerns were discussed and
managed is captured in Corvilles suitability report where it said:
You are concerned about the funding of the scheme and dont feel you can leave the fund
within the scheme () you have received a letter from the scheme () stating that the
scheme is likely that it would be impossible to find a new employer wishing to take on the
scheme in its current form, and that the scheme would be required to go into the pension
protection fund.[sic] 
In its suitability report, Corville set out the level of some, but not all, of the benefits likely to
be available to Mr M under the PPF. It confirmed what his annual pension would be, and the
investment return required for any new arrangement to match these benefits. Other than
this, Corville merely referred Mr M to the enclosed TVAS for full details of this pension
entitlement. The TVAS, produced by a third party, did set out the particular features of the
PPF, but this was fact based as opposed to Corville offering reassurances in terms of the
guaranteed benefits offered or Mr Ms specific concerns being addressed. Had such
reassurances instead been given about the protections which would still be available, even
in the worst case scenario of the scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think Mr Mwould have viewed things differently.
Given Mr Ms concerns about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which
would result in him losing 10% of his income, I question why he would then be prepared to
accept the risk of transferring to a SIPP which, based on the critical yield figures, arguably
exposed him to unlimited risks, where the loss could be much greater than 10%. I think this
indicates that Mr M didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the nature of
the PPF compared to the transfer. He was relying on Corville to provide expert advice about
this, but this seems to have been absent. Overall, I dont think that Mr Ms concerns, if
appropriately managed, would have been sufficient justification for Mr M to transfer at time.
Flexibility
Corville referred to Mr M wanting flexibility and control as evidence that transferring was in
his best interests. Specifically, it said that Mr M wanted to control when and how he took his
pension income, as well as where his funds were invested. He also wanted the option of
accessing benefits earlier than the scheme NRA, so he could semi retire and help his wife
care for their disabled son.
In terms of controlling how and when he took pension income, Corville didnt gather much in
the way of detail about what this really meant for Mr M. Although the suitability report said
Mr M might take a higher income in the early years of retirement, theres no evidence of any
discussion between Mr M and Corville about why this might be; what level of income Mr M
anticipated taking in early retirement compared to later on; and whether this was likely to be
sustainable or make the risks associated with transferring, worthwhile. Without even basic
information about Mr Ms personal goals, I cant see how Corville could conclude that
flexibility in this regard was a genuine need or something which transferring was likely to
meet.
It's understandable that Mr M wanted the option of being able to semi-retire as early as age
55 and help his wife care for their disabled son. However, early retirement was already an
available option to Mr M through the BSPS and PPF (subject to a 10% reduction in benefits).
There was no mention of this in Corvilles suitability report, and when Mr M emailed Corville
asking whether the BSPS entering the PPF would mean he couldnt take benefits before age
65, Corville failed to answer the question. Instead, it suggested that a discussion in person 
about this would be useful. However, Corvilles notes from the meeting it had with Mr M
following this exchange doesnt indicate that any such discussion took place. Theres no
record of Corville providing Mr M with any assurances about early retirement before age 65
being possible under the PPF. Corvilles notes merely reflected Mr Ms incorrect view on the
matter, saying, [Mr M] wants to retire early () and this would not be available in the PPF 
this is another concern for him. I think it was remiss of Corville not to address Mr Ms
concerns on this point, and Im unclear as to why it instead chose to leave him with an
obvious misunderstanding of the options available to him.
Many people might want to retire early, but this can only happen if they have the financial
means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning therefore involves managing
a clients expectations and identifying any need for compromise. So, it was for Corville to
establish what was feasible, manage Mr Ms expectations and, where applicable, help him
modify his objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances. For example, Corville ought
to have identified the basis on which Mr M wanted to semi-retire and worked out what this
meant in financial terms given his familys anticipated requirements, bearing in mind that
Mr Ms income would likely be their main source of revenue for some time as Mrs M was
unlikely to become employed and their children would both still be dependent on them.
Thered be little point transferring to retire early if it was unlikely that the new arrangementwould be able to provide the income required to cover the expected expenditure from Mr Ms
target retirement age. And transferring wouldve made even less sense if the income
couldve been met and guaranteed under the PPF or BSPS. To sacrifice guaranteed benefits
for the sake of flexibility in an income which could never reasonably achieve the same value
as that offered by the BSPS or PPF, would not in my view be a suitable course of action.
Mr M would effectively be swapping a higher guaranteed income for the sake of flexibility in
withdrawing a lower overall income. I cant see that there was an advantage in terms of this
objective from transferring.
In terms of having control of his pension and where it was invested, Mr M has said his only
concern was keeping his pension safe. He was worried that his pension could be reduced, or
worse still, that he might lose it entirely if he didnt take action. But again, instead of
discussing and addressing this concern with Mr M, Corville seemingly took what he said at
face value and concluded it was a valid reason to transfer. But Mr M had minimal investment
knowledge and experience. So, while he might have desired control, Mr M was unlikely to be
 let alone remain  capable of managing his investments himself into old age. Its
understandable that Mr M might have been attracted to the thought of severing ties with his
employer, as far as his pension was concerned, given some of the uncertainty around this at
the time, but I dont think this could be considered a reasonable justification for transferring. I
think Corville shouldve enquired further about what Mr M specifically meant when he said he
wanted his pension in his own control and what he thought might happen if he didnt transfer
to secure such control.
Given that Corville said in its suitability letter that it had gone from not recommending the
transfer, to doing so because of evidence it was in Mr Ms best interests  flexibility and
control being two of the motivations given  I would expect to see clear reasons and
compelling rationale from Corville, to meet the regulators requirements that it plainly
demonstrated with evidence that transferring was in Mr Ms best interests. Unfortunately, this
is noticeably absent. So, its my view that Mr M made the decision to accept the advice to
transfer from an uninformed position regarding his flexibility and control objectives.
Death benefits
Regarding death benefits, Corville recorded that Mr M wanted flexibility. Specifically, he
wanted to leave his wife and children a lump sum instead of a regular income. He was also 
concerned that if he or his wife died early, the fund would die with them. Its understandable,
given the circumstances, that Mr M would want to ensure his wife, who was their disabled
sons full-time carer, was provided for in the event of his death. Its also reasonable to expect
that he wanted his children to benefit too. Mr M has said that ensuring his family, especially
his disabled son, were provided for was very important to him. However, based on what Ive
seen, I dont think Corville has provided credible evidence which demonstrates that
transferring for more flexibility with death benefits was worthwhile; that it met its obligation to
provide Mr M with sufficient information about the death benefit options available to him
under the BSPS and the PPF or that it had regard for the effect of replacing them with the
benefits and options under a new arrangement.
Corvilles suitability report set out, in very general and limited terms, what Mr Ms death
benefit entitlement under the BSPS was and what it could potentially be if he transferred. It
confirmed that under the BSPS, a spouses pension equal to 50% of Mr Ms pension at the
time would be paid if he died before retiring, as well as a lump sum of £57,581.25. No
information about the death benefits available if Mr M died after taking his pension was
provided. There was also no information about what the death benefit entitlement under the
PPF was. The TVAS enclosed with Corvilles suitability report did set out in monetary terms
what the spouses pension under the BSPS would be depending on when, before taking his
pension, Mr M passed away. But again, there was nothing about what death benefit optionswere available under the PPF, even in general terms.
Although Corville noted in the suitability report that it discussed with Mr M what would
happen on this death and that he felt the likely scenario would be that, under a PP
arrangement, his nominated beneficiary would take any remaining fund as a cash lump sum,
no further details of any discussion about death benefits is provided. Because of this, and
the lack of information Mr M appears to have been provided with, Im not satisfied that
Corville put Mr M in a position where he fully understood what his various death benefit
options were, such that he could make an informed decision about transferring for this
reason.
The reality was that transferring to a SIPP did offer flexible death benefits  nominated
beneficiaries could choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, lump sum,
income drawdown or any combination of these. And for the period immediately following the
transfer until Mr M could take any retirement income, the death benefits available would,
subject to investment performance, be significant simply because he couldnt access and
deplete the fund value. But Mr M was in good health, there was nothing suggest he couldnt
expect a normal life expectancy and therefore require money from the SIPP to meet his main
income needs in retirement. So, in later years, when passing away was more likely, this
could mean that upon death the size of Mr Ms SIPP fund remaining for his beneficiaries was
more likely to be much smaller.
In addition to setting out the death benefit options available, Corville needed to establish
what Mr Ms specific needs in this regard were. Without doing this, it was impossible to say
with any certainty what fund might reasonably be available to Mr Bs beneficiaries based on
his expected rate of income withdrawal and life expectancy and therefore how the SIPP
might provide financial support for his wife and children further down the line.
Saying he wanted to leave as much of his pension fund to his wife and children in the event
of his death wasnt in my view a fully articulated objective. Corville ought to have discussed
with Mr M what, in real terms, his position on death benefits was and specifically how he
wanted to provide for his wife and children in this respect  for example, why he wanted to
leave his wife a lump sum benefit as opposed to a guaranteed ongoing spouse pension, and
how much of a safety net his wife and children might require if he passed away.
Mr M has said that he and his wife had two life cover policies, each worth £95,000 at the
time of Corvilles advice. So if it was a genuine objective for Mr M to provide a lump sum on
his death, as asserted by Corville, then I think life cover couldve achieved the same
objective of providing a lump sum while enabling Mr M to maintain safeguarded benefits.
Theres nothing to show that Corville considered this option or any death in service cover
Mr M might have available as a result of his employment with British Steel. As I understand
it, if Mr M was still employed by British Steel at the time of his death, a death in service lump
sum based on a specified multiplication of his salary would be payable, which again, like any
life cover wouldve arguably bolstered his position where death benefits were concerned,
without giving up guarantees.
Corville didnt identify the level of retirement income Mr M and/or Mrs M thought Mrs M
would need in the event Mr M passed away; explore whether the spouses pension Mrs M
could secure under Mr Ms BSPS pension or the PPF would be sufficient; or if transferring to
improve on this was necessary or realistically achievable given Mr Ms ATR and capacity for
loss.
I also think it was remiss of Corville not to establish the specifics of any pension provision
Mrs M had of her own which might have reduced her dependence on Mr Ms BSPS pension.
As I understand it, Mrs M has her own very modest pension from a previous employer, buttheres no indication that Corville considered this when advising Mr M to transfer for death
benefits.
In terms of provision for Mr Ms children, Corville didnt collect any information about their
anticipated needs, such as the specific requirements of Mr Ms permanently disabled son,
who, in the event of both of his parents death, might need money for care costs as he was
unlikely to ever be able to live independently. In my view, information of this nature was
critical to Corville evaluating and determining whether taking on additional risks by
transferring was worthwhile and in Mr Ms best interests and later, those of his wife and
children. Without this, I dont think Corville could reasonably conclude that transferring to a
SIPP to alter and improve on death benefits was worth Mr M giving up guaranteed benefits.
Im mindful that Corville didnt, in the first instance, provide Mr M with an objective picture of
the death benefits under the BSPS and PPF. Notably, Corville failed to highlight the
provision both included for dependants. Under the BSPS Mr Ms benefits included the
provision for a dependants allowance. This meant that, following his death, the scheme
trustees would assess whether there were any dependants  for example, a spouse,
children or other relatives who financially depended on him. In the case of Mr Ms disabled
son, it was clear he would be a financially dependent for life due to his disability and high
level of dependency. And although provision for dependents ordinarily ends when they
complete full time education or by their mid-twenties, a dependence allowance under the
BSPS could be paid indefinitely, subject to the discretion of scheme trustees.
So, in the event of Mr Ms death, the BSPS could pay a dependants allowance for the rest of
his disabled sons life. Had this, coupled with the provision of a guaranteed spouses
pension, been properly explained to Mr M, I think its likely that, bearing in mind his wish to
ensure his wife and children were provided for when he died, Mr M wouldve instead opted to
remain where he was, until such time as BSPS2 or even the PPF became available. Both
likely offer better death benefits for Mr Ms beneficiaries compared to a SIPP.
Limited advice
In addition to the reasons Ive already given for why I think Corville failed to provide Mr M
with suitable advice, I think that its attempt to limit the advice it gave compounded this.
Corville appears to have been under the impression that as it told Mr M that it wasnt 
providing advice on where his funds should be invested once transferred to the SIPP, this
enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate
out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of the transfer to the SIPP had to include
the suitability of the underlying investments. Without this Im not satisfied Corville could
make a reasonable determination about whether the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
And I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
The regulator restated its position in two alerts issued in 2013 and 2014, where it said:
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a
product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other
wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and
the expected underlying investments (). It should be particularly clear to financial advisers
that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider
investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall
investment strategy the customer is contemplating ().
and
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer (). If a firm does not fully
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it
should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not be able to assess
suitability of the transaction as a whole.
So, although the intention was for another regulated firm (Firm S) to advise on where Mr Ms
funds were invested, I dont think this meant Corvilles responsibilities ended once the SIPP
had been set up. Corville still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable,
notwithstanding that another firm was going to be involved. Suitable advice couldnt be given
without thinking about the intended investment. Thats the regulators position as Ive
referred to above.
Corvilles suitability letter said that following the transfer, Firm S would assume responsibility
for ongoing investment advice and place Mr Ms funds in the Tatton Managed Balanced
portfolio  no information about this fund was provided. But once transferred, Mr Ms funds
were actually first placed in the BlackRock Cash Fund. And after Firm S carried out its own
assessment of Mr Ms ATR and capacity for loss, his funds were placed in the Tatton
Managed Cautious portfolio.
The assumptions used in the TVAS report (upon which Corvilles suitability report was
based) were that Mr M would be invested in a generic Balanced fund (the Tatton Managed
Balanced portfolio isnt mentioned anywhere) with a 1% Annual Management Charge (AMC)
being charged half-annually. However, in Corvilles suitability report the applicable fund
charge is recorded 0.32% pa. This doesnt appear to be the charge for the Tatton Managed
Balanced portfolio Corville said Mr M would be invested in. Instead it reflects the total charge
for Mr M investing in the BlackRock Cash Fund. So, there was a real disconnect between
where Corville told Mr M that his funds would be invested, what this would cost and
ultimately, the impression Mr M was given by Corville about the impact this would likely have
on investment growth, the size of his fund at retirement and the extent to which transferring
would therefore meet the objectives Corville said it would.
Together, I think Corvilles attempt to distance itself from any responsibility for where Mr Ms
funds were invested and the errors and inconsistency regarding which funds and charges
were used in the TVAS and suitability report, meant that, at best, Corville confused matters
 and at worst, that it misrepresented the transfer to Mr M and in doing so, failed to take
reasonable steps to ensure Mr M was placed in an informed position whereby he could
understand Corvilles advice and make an informed decision about transferring.
Summary
Corvilles position appears to be that, based on Mr Ms objectives and concerns that, at the
time, it was highly likely the [BSPS] would enter the PPF, he wouldve always transferred
irrespective of the advice it provided. I disagree. I think it was clear from the outset that Mr M
was seeking to rely on the information and advice he obtained from Corville. And I think
Corvilles failings in appropriately assessing the suitability of the transaction it was
recommending played a pivotal role in Mr Ms decision to transfer. As Ive explained, the
perceived benefits of doing so didnt justify the transfer at this time. In my view Corville
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer to Mr M. And if it hadnt done so then I
dont believe its likely that Mr M wouldve gone ahead with it. In the circumstances Im
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr M wouldve listened to suitable advice and
followed the recommendation I think Corville should have made, which was not to transfer.
I accept that the detail of any potential successor scheme, as an alternative to the PPF, was
lacking when Corville was advising Mr M. As Ive said above, this advice predated theannouncement in May 2017 relating to the RAA. However, based on what Ive seen, Im not
persuaded that Mr M had to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details
were known about the options which might later be available. My understanding is that, at
the time Mr M engaged Corville for advice, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS
entering the PPF and the consultation was geared towards the opposite outcome.
Im mindful that an update issued by the BSPS trustees in June 2016 (before Corvilles
advice to Mr M) said that, although earlier thoughts had been that the BSPS would likely
transfer to the PPF, recent developments meant that it was now believed that the scheme
would be able to provide modified benefits (BSPS2), which, for the vast majority of members
would be better than those provided by the PPF. Clearly, this was subject to the
governments conclusions and there were no guarantees about what the outcome would be.
However, given the significance of the decision Mr M would be making about his future
retirement needs, as well as provision for his dependent family, especially the high
dependency of his disabled son, I think it was essential that, as part of providing
comprehensive suitable advice, Corville ensured it understood the position with the BSPS
and could, as a result, properly advise Mr M regarding the options available to him. Its worth
noting that even once the options were known, BSPS members still had the choice of
transferring out of the scheme, rather than being forced into the PPF.
Corville needed to question and drill down into the drivers behind Mr Ms objectives. Without
doing this and setting out Mr Ms various options in a clear and balanced way  in monetary
form, where possible  I dont think Corville, let alone Mr M, was able to establish whether
there were reasonable justifications for giving up guaranteed benefits and taking a gamble
with his main retirement provision.
Taking into account Mr Ms circumstances, including his ATR, his objectives and the
guarantees which the BSPS offered and wouldve persisted with either the BSPS2 or the
PPF, my view is that Corville should have advised against the transfer. Ive carefully
considered Mr Ms recorded objectives, but I havent seen any evidence which persuades
me that options for early retirement, flexibility or control were sufficiently compelling reasons
to transfer and give up guaranteed benefits. As Ive said one of Mr Ms recorded objectives 
the option of early retirement  was in any case achievable within the BSPS2 and would
have remained so in the PPF. In terms of death benefits, I think Mr Ms personal
circumstances made this a key consideration, especially in terms of protecting his wife and 
children. But protecting his fund and thereby protecting his wife and children in the event of
his death was available without needing to transfer. Arguably, in transferring the protection
provided in terms of death benefits was lost.
I accept that Mr M was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of
understanding them. But its important to note that disclosure isnt the same as suitability. If
the recommendation to transfer was fundamentally unsuitable then the provision of risk
warnings doesnt transform it into a suitable one.
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M, nor was it in
his best interests.
Retiring at age 55 was an option Mr M wished to have as opposed to a concrete plan he did
have. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits
he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more
favourable reduction for early retirement. As it stands, Mr M remains in full time employment
with British Steel and intends to retire at age 65. Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr M chose to do so). So, I thinkCorville shouldve advised Mr M to remain in the BSPS and when he later had the choice,
advised him to opt into BSPS2.
So, overall, I think Corville should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using the
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it
is the benefits available to him through BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for comparison
purposes.
As Ive said, notwithstanding Firm S involvement, Corville had a duty to give Mr M suitable
advice and without its advice a transfer couldnt have proceeded. And it was only as a result
of Corvilles involvement that Mr M transferred the funds held in his BSPS pension to the
SIPP. Corvilles role was pivotal, since the eventual investment was fully reliant on the funds
being transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr M couldnt have invested as he did. So, in
my view, the entirety of Mr Ms loss stems from Corvilles unsuitable advice to transfer away
from the BSPS. For this reason, I think its fair and reasonable to hold Corville fully
responsible for any losses this transfer caused Mr M. If Corville considers that Firm S should
also be held liable, it is free to pursue Firm S directly after having compensated Mr M in full.
Putting things right
I intend to say that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as
far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for Corvilles unsuitable advice. I
consider Mr M would have most likely remained in his BSPS and subsequently moved into
the BSPS2, rather than the SIPP, if suitable advice had been given. So, Corville should use
the benefits offered by BSPS2 at age 65 for comparison purposes, as per the usual
assumptions in the FCAs guidance.
Corville must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Corville may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amountmust where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Corville receives notification
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Corville to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I invited Corville and Mr M to respond to my provisional decision. Mr M accepted my 
findings. Corville disagreed and, in summary, said:
I hadnt considered the uncertainty surrounding the BSPS at the time of its advice 
and my findings were based on hindsight.
Id failed to take into account Mr Ms circumstances and the merits of alternative 
options available at the time of its advice.
Id ignored Mr Ms desire to take a lump sum from his pension and leave funds to his 
children when he died.
Mr Ms claim that he felt uneasy writing the letter it asked him to prepare, setting out 
why he wanted to transfer, wasnt consistent with his actions as he still went on to 
accept its advice.
The PPF didnt clarify the future with the RAA only being issued in 2017, after its 
advice to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh and having done so, my decision 
remains the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint for the reasons Ive previously given. However, Ill respond to some of the points 
Corville made following my provisional decision. 
While I wont be responding to all of Corvilles arguments, Ive considered each of them. If 
I dont mention something, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome on the 
matter. Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant and hope that Corville will 
understand that I mean no discourtesy by this. 
Corville disgrees with my provisional decision, suggesting that Ive failed to take into account 
Mr Ms circumstances and the merits of alternative options available at the time of its advice. 
Because of this it feels that my decision is, in essence, a template. It says its seen similar 
approaches taken in other cases considered by our Service, which indicates a blanket 
approach to these types of complaints.
In reaching a decision about the suitability of Corvilles advice, Ive taken into account a 
number of factors, such as  but not limited to  the regulators position on DB transfers, the 
status of the DB scheme at the time of Corvilles advice and the financial viability of the 
transfer. Naturally, some of these factors are common across the types of complaints our 
Service sees about DB transfers. But taking into account other relevant factors, doesnt 
mean that Mr Ms circumstances and the merits of the options available to him at the time havent been key considerations when Ive looked at the suitability of the advice he received. 
I think my provisional decision shows the opposite to be true. 
    
Repeated references to Mr Ms circumstances were made throughout my provisional 
decision and, most notably, under the section headed, Mr Ms position at the time of 
Corvilles advice, where I set out Mr Ms circumstances as I understood them. Specifically, I 
said:
At the time of the advice, Mr M was 53 years old and had accrued significant qualifying 
service in the BSPS hed held with his employer of over 30 years. Given how long Mr M had 
been working, its understandable that he may have been interested in retiring earlier than 
age 65. However, other than his state pension entitlement and a very modest PP, Mr Ms 
BSPS pension was his only retirement provision. Although I havent seen any note or 
evidence of an enquiry by Corville about Mr M's wifes retirement provision on file, 
I understand that other than her state pension entitlement, she only had a small PP. So, 
Mr Ms BSPS pension represented the largest proportion of his and his wifes combined 
wealth and future retirement income. They also had two financially dependent children (aged 
10 and 14), one of whom was disabled and would be permanently dependent. Im also 
aware that Mr and Mrs M were receiving benefits in the form of disability living allowance, 
carers allowance, working tax credits and child benefit. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt have other sizable assets they could rely on if Mr Ms transfer didnt 
work out, and as they had minimal savings and an outstanding mortgage of £40,000, it 
seems to me that Mr Ms BSPS pension was his most valuable asset. It provided a 
guaranteed income for the future with increases; a spouses pension for Mrs M should Mr M 
pass away and provision for any qualifying dependents.
Bearing this in mind, I didnt think that Mr Ms situation was one which lent itself to taking 
risks, especially not those which transferring presented. And, when considering Mr Ms 
capacity for loss, I still have doubts about the basis on which Corville concluded that Mr M 
could absorb any losses without a material effect on [his] standard of living  his 
circumstances, as Ive set out above, simply didnt reflect that.
In terms of Mr Ms income needs in retirement, I noted that Corville had made no attempt to 
establish what these were likely to be. And without this, I didnt think Corville could 
reasonably conclude that transferring was in his best interests or that it had demonstrated 
that it had meet the regulators requirement that its advice took into account Mr Ms relevant 
circumstances.
I also thought carefully about Mr Ms circumstances when looking at Corvilles justifications 
for its advice, but I wasnt satisfied that transferring for reasons like flexibility or death 
benefits was necessary or shown by Corville to be in Mr Ms best interests. Regarding 
flexibility, I said:
Corville didnt gather much in the way of detail about what this really meant for Mr M. 
Although the suitability report said Mr M might take a higher income in the early years of 
retirement, theres no evidence of any discussion between Mr M and Corville about why this 
might be; what level of income Mr M anticipated taking in early retirement compared to later 
on; and whether this was likely to be sustainable or make the risks associated with 
transferring, worthwhile. Without even basic information about Mr Ms personal goals, I cant 
see how Corville could conclude that flexibility in this regard was a genuine need or 
something which transferring was likely to meet () it was for Corville to establish what was 
feasible, manage Mr Ms expectations and, where applicable, help him modify his objectives 
to reflect the reality of his circumstances (). And concerning death benefits, I said:
Its understandable, given the circumstances, that Mr M would want to ensure his wife, who 
was their disabled sons full-time carer, was provided for in the event of his death () Mr M 
has said that ensuring his family, especially his disabled son, were provided for was very 
important to him. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Corville has provided 
credible evidence which demonstrates that transferring for more flexibility with death benefits 
was worthwhile; that it met its obligation to provide Mr M with sufficient information about the 
death benefit options available to him under the BSPS and the PPF or that it had regard for 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under a new arrangement ()
Although Corville noted in the suitability report that it discussed with Mr M what would 
happen on this death and that he felt the likely scenario would be that, under a PP 
arrangement, his nominated beneficiary would take any remaining fund as a cash lump sum, 
no further details of any discussion about death benefits is provided. Because of this, and 
the lack of information Mr M appears to have been provided with, Im not satisfied that 
Corville put Mr M in a position where he fully understood what his various death benefit 
options were, such that he could make an informed decision about transferring for this 
reason ().
So, again, Im unable to agree that my consideration of Corvilles advice ignored Mr Ms 
circumstances. Its Mr Ms circumstances and their relation to other relevant factors in this 
case which led me to conclude that Corvilles advice was unsuitable. 
Corville has suggested that my findings ignored Mr Ms desire to leave funds to his children 
when he died. But I addressed this in my provisional decision under the heading, Death 
benefits, saying:
In terms of provision for Mr Ms children, Corville didnt collect any information about their 
anticipated needs, such as the specific requirements of Mr Ms permanently disabled son, 
who, in the event of both of his parents death, might need money for care costs as he was 
unlikely to ever be able to live independently. In my view, information of this nature was 
critical to Corville evaluating and determining whether taking on additional risks by 
transferring was worthwhile and in Mr Ms best interests and later, those of his wife and 
children. Without this, I dont think Corville could reasonably conclude that transferring to a 
SIPP to alter and improve on death benefits was worth Mr M giving up guaranteed benefits. 
Im mindful that Corville didnt, in the first instance, provide Mr M with an objective picture of 
the death benefits under the BSPS and PPF. Notably, Corville failed to highlight the 
provision both included for dependants. Under the BSPS Mr Ms benefits included the 
provision for a dependants allowance. This meant that, following his death, the scheme 
trustees would assess whether there were any dependants  for example, a spouse, 
children or other relatives who financially depended on him. In the case of Mr Ms disabled 
son, it was clear he would be a financially dependent for life due to his disability and high 
level of dependency. And although provision for dependents ordinarily ends when they 
complete full time education or by their mid-twenties, a dependence allowance under the 
BSPS could be paid indefinitely, subject to the discretion of scheme trustees ()
So, in the event of Mr Ms death, the BSPS could pay a dependants allowance for the rest of 
his disabled sons life. Had this () been properly explained to  Mr M, I think its likely that, 
bearing in mind his wish to ensure his wife and children were provided for when he died, Mr 
M wouldve instead opted to remain where he was, until such time as BSPS2 or even the 
PPF became available. Both likely offered better death benefits for Mr Ms beneficiaries 
compared to a SIPP ().In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that the full details of BSPS2 were lacking at the 
time of Corvilles advice. So I think it was even more important for Corville  which said 
leaving funds for Mr Ms children was an important factor in its advice  to ensure that, 
based on what was known, Mr M had relevant information about what the position might be if 
the BSPS transferred to the PPF. 
The reality was that, under the PPF, there was provision for a members children directly 
relevant to Mr Ms circumstances, especially bearing in mind his permanently disabled son. It 
would provide compensation to children under 18 (which Mr Ms children were at the time of 
Corvilles advice), or over 18 but under 23 who were in qualifying education or who had a 
qualifying disability. The amount Mr Ms children could receive would depend on whether 
Mrs M was also receiving an income from Mr Ms pension following his death. Where she 
was, Mr Ms children could receive 50% of Mr Ms pension, divided equally. Where an 
income wasnt being paid to Mrs M, Mr Ms children could receive 100 per cent of his 
pension, divided equally.
I cant see that Corville provided any of this information to Mr M when it shouldve, 
particularly given how pertinent it was to his circumstances. Corville said that the prospect of 
the BSPS entering the PPF was a serious concern for Mr M and the driving force behind 
him seeking its advice. So, its unclear to me why, as part the advice process, it made no 
attempt to address Mr Ms worries in this respect.
Given the circumstances, I think that discussing the features of the PPF and providing Mr M 
with the information Ive outlined above, wouldve likely allayed many of Mr Ms fears about 
the PPF. Having been provided him with a balanced and objective view of what benefits 
under the PPF were likely to look like and what this could mean given his circumstances, I 
think that Mr M wouldve instead opted to remain where he was, until such time as BSPS2 or 
the PPF became available. I believe he wouldve understood that the BSPS entering the 
PPF wasnt necessarily the worst-case scenario hed imagined.
Corville suggests that my findings ignored Mr Ms desire to take a lump sum from his 
pension. It says that Mr M took advantage of its advice and accessed lump sums as he 
said he would. Corville seems to think this demonstrates that its advice, which enabled Mr M 
to access lump sums, was suitable. 
As Ive said, my findings on Corvilles advice took into account a number of things, including 
the reasons Corville gave for why transferring was in Mr Ms best interests. A desire or 
requirement to access a lump sum wasnt provided as a reason for Corvilles 
recommendation. The Financial Planning Questionnaire completed for Mr M didnt show that 
Mr M had any debts he was struggling to pay, or which needed repaying immediately such 
that transferring for this reason necessary. He was meeting his outgoings without any need 
to access his pension. And the section of the Client Considerations form to be completed for 
those who needed a larger lump sum for debt repayment, or another capital need was left 
blank.
As there was nothing to suggest that accessing a lump sum was a reason for Corvilles 
recommendation, I didnt consider it necessary to explore this in any significant detail in my 
provisional decision. If Corvilles recommendation had been based on Mr M wanting or 
needing to access a lump sum which could only be achieved following a transfer to a SIPP, I 
wouldve expected to see this documented by Corville, but it wasnt. Theres nothing to 
suggest that Corville collected even basic information about the lump sum it says Mr M 
required, such as the amount he was seeking, when he needed it or what it was intended 
for. 
Notwithstanding this, I accept that transferring meant that Mr M was able to access his pension and withdraw funds from his pension. And its true that Mr M has made use of this 
facility. However, Mr M couldve taken a lump sum under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the same 
time he did from his SIPP if he really needed to, while retaining guarantees. Theres nothing 
to suggest this was considered by Corville before being discounted in favour of transferring. 
The same can be said for other viable options such as the lump sum which couldve been 
available to Mr M under the defined contribution scheme he was contributing to. 
Although Mr M has withdrawn funds from the SIPP he transferred to, Im not persuaded that 
this demonstrates that Corvilles advice was suitable. In my view its merely been a 
consequence of transferring and not because it met any essential need which made 
transferring and giving up a guaranteed escalating pension worthwhile.
Corville says that Mr Ms claim that he felt uneasy writing the letter it asked him to prepare, 
setting out why he wanted to transfer, isnt consistent with his actions as he still went on to 
accept its advice. I dont agree. 
Mr M wasnt an experienced investor or a pensions expert, he was therefore wholly reliant 
on Corville, as his financial adviser, to provide a balanced assessment of the options 
available, act in his best interests and provide suitable advice. So, I dont find it surprising 
that, given this dependence, Mr M trusted and ultimately accepted Corvilles advice, despite 
misgivings he had about being asked to prepare and sign an undated letter. 
Notwithstanding this, Mr Ms recollection of how he felt about Corvilles letter doesnt alter my 
view that Corvilles advice was unsuitable. Corville failed to adequately take into account Mr 
Ms circumstances and concerns; interrogate and distil his objectives and evaluate the merits 
and shortcomings of transferring, while sufficiently considering alternatives. And in doing so, 
I think it seriously let him down at time when he was contemplating making a critical decision 
about his future.
Corville indicated that it didnt think I considered the uncertainty surrounding the BSPS in 
reaching my decision about the suitability of Corvilles advice. It hasnt made any specific 
points regarding this, so I can only disagree and refer it to the sections in my provisional 
decision headed, Concerns about the financial stability of the BSPS and benefits entering 
the PPF and Summary, where I acknowledged the lack of certainty and set out what 
bearing I thought this ought to have had on Corvilles advice  put simply, I wasnt 
persuaded that Mr M had to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details 
were known about the options which might later be available.
Finally, Corville has said my provisional decision was based on hindsight. Specifically, it 
says:
() the PPF did not clarify the future with the RAA only being issued in 2017, after the 
advice ().
Its not entirely clear to me what exactly Corville means by this comment. But as I 
understand it, it seems to be suggesting that until the RAA was announced in 2017, the full 
details of the position with the PPF or any potential successor scheme werent known. And 
therefore, my comments about what Mr M would likely have done had he received suitable 
advice, were based on hindsight and not the actual situation the time of Corvilles advice.
Under the Summary section of my provisional decision, I said:
However, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr M had to make any decision 
about whether to transfer until more details were known about the options which might later 
be available. My understanding is that, at the time Mr M engaged Corville for advice, there 
was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF and the consultation was geared towards the opposite outcome. 
Im mindful that an update issued by the BSPS trustees in June 2016 (before Corvilles 
advice to Mr M) said that, although earlier thoughts had been that the BSPS would likely 
transfer to the PPF, recent developments meant that it was now believed that the scheme 
would be able to provide modified benefits (BSPS2), which, for the vast majority of members 
would be better than those provided by the PPF. Clearly, this was subject to the 
governments conclusions and there were no guarantees about what the outcome would be. 
However, given the significance of the decision Mr M would be making about his future 
retirement needs, as well as provision for his dependent family, especially the high 
dependency of his disabled son, I think it was essential that, as part of providing 
comprehensive suitable advice, Corville ensured it understood the position with the BSPS 
and could, as a result, properly advise Mr M regarding the options available to him. Its worth 
noting that even once the options were known, BSPS members still had the choice of 
transferring out of the scheme, rather than being forced into the PPF.
I dont think the RAA not being announced until 2017 precluded Corville from providing Mr M 
with all the relevant information that was available at the time of its advice and explaining 
what this meant in terms of his options. And it didnt automatically mean that transferring 
necessary. Given that Corville seems to accept that the future of the BSPS wasnt entirely 
clear when it advised Mr M to transfer, I think it was even more incumbent on it not to advise 
Mr M to take any action until such time as he had the full details of his options and a clear 
idea of what the implications of choosing one of these options could be. 
I dont agree that my decision is based on hindsight, its based on what was known at the 
time of Corvilles advice, bearing in mind what I think Mr M would most likely have done 
based on his circumstances and if Corville had  provided suitable advice.
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M, nor was it in 
his best interests. So, overall, I think Corville should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as 
per the Summary section of my provisional decision, it is the benefits available to him 
through BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for comparison purposes.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. And he has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Corvilles unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have most likely remained in his BSPS and subsequently moved into the BSPS2, 
rather than the SIPP, if suitable advice had been given. So, Corville should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 at age 65 for comparison purposes, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
Corville must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Corville may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Corville receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Corville to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Corville Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Corville Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Corville 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Corville Financial Services Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Corville Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
If Mr M was to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on Corville Financial Services Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding on 
Corville Financial Services Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr M could accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that the complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr M 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman