DRN-3966731
The complaint
Mr R is a sole trader, trading as R. He complains that ClearBank Limited (Tide) wont refund 
the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr R received a call from someone who identified themselves as being from Tide. 
Unfortunately, they were actually a scammer. They told Mr R his account had been 
compromised and fraud had been attempted, so he needed to upgrade his account for better 
security. 
Mr R was sent a QR code to scan in his mobile banking app, which granted web access to 
his account. He also entered an OTP code he was sent  thinking this was part of the 
process needed to upgrade and move his funds over to the upgraded account.
Shortly after the funds had been moved, Mr R contacted Tide via chat to verify the call. It 
took around an hour for Tide to reply, at which point it confirmed it hadnt called, and so the 
scam was revealed. Mr R raised a fraud claim, and subsequently complained when Tide 
declined this. But Tide maintained it wasnt at fault for the loss, and that Mr R had authorised 
the payments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought the account activity was unusual, and that Tide had missed an opportunity to 
prevent the loss, so recommended it refund Mr R. 
Tide has appealed the investigators outcome. In summary, it disputes it ought to have 
identified the account activity as suspicious. And it said Mr R had missed opportunities to 
uncover the scam, given he had to scan the QR code multiple times, which Tide had never 
previously asked him to do. And it had previously verified itself in the app when calling him, 
which the scammer of course hadnt. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. Ive been in touch with both sides directly 
to clarify a few points ahead of reaching a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Given the circumstances of this complaint, Ive first considered if these payments should be 
deemed authorised, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). This is 
relevant as, in broad terms, Mr R would generally be held liable for authorised payments  
and Tide would be liable for unauthorised payments. 
Ive had a look at what Mr R told Tide immediately after the call. He talks about going into 
the app to confirm the codes, in order to send his money to the upgraded app. 
Overall, although Mr R may not have completed all the payment steps directly, it seems he 
understood the steps he took (such as entering the codes in his banking app) would allow 
the payments to be taken. So, while he was tricked about the destination or reason for the 
payments, I think they were still authorised by him.
In line with the PSRs, Tide has a duty to execute authorised payment instructions without 
undue delay. But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making 
the payment. If Tide failed to do so here, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be 
fair to hold it liable.
The first scam payment taken was for £15,000. I agree with the investigator this was 
sufficiently unusual such that Tide ought to have identified this as presenting a fraud or scam 
risk. It should have looked into the circumstances of the payment further to assess that risk. 
I appreciate Mr Rs account had previously been used for high value payments. But in 
considering whether the scam payment looked uncharacteristic, I consider it reasonable to 
place most weight on the account use in the year prior to the scam. Although Mr R had 
made a payment of £15,000 over 18 months before the scam, I still think the first scam 
payment looked at odds with how Mr R usually used the account. 
Furthermore there are several factors which, when taken together, make this payment 
appear suspicious. It was going to a new payee; it utilised much more of the available 
balance than usual (and was promptly followed by a further, high value payment which all 
but cleared the account), and the amount was still significantly more (by around £5,000) than 
any payments made in the year prior. 
There are, of course, competing duties at play here: banks must strike a balance between 
processing legitimate, authorised payments promptly  and taking steps to protect 
customers from fraud. But here, in line with the factors I've highlighted, I do think there was 
enough going on to warrant further checks. 
If Tide had frozen the payment until it had spoken to Mr R, I think the loss could have been 
prevented. While Tide likely wouldn't have been able to get through to Mr R directly on the 
phone (as he was speaking to the scammer), it could have texted him or left him a voicemail 
asking him to call back. Or it could have contacted him via the in-app chat. 
If Tide had spoken to Mr R directly, a few questions would have made it clear this was a 
scam. Tide would have been able to confirm it hadnt contacted Mr R, as indeed it did when 
he reached out over chat. I therefore think Tides failure to intervene appropriately led to this 
loss.
However, while Ive concluded Tide is at fault for the loss, Ive also considered whether Mr R 
is partly to blame. Having carefully weighed up the arguments Tide has put forward, along 
with Mr Rs explanation for his actions, Im not persuaded he is.There were a number of factors which helped convince Mr R he was genuinely speaking to 
Tide. The scammer appeared to call from the number shown on his Tide debit card and 
verified details of recent transactions he had made, without him divulging any personal 
information. In those circumstances, I consider it reasonable Mr R believed the caller was 
who they claimed to be. This appears to have been a targeted scam against Tide customers, 
and the caller had personal/inside knowledge about Mr R and his account. 
In those circumstances, I can see why Mr R didnt immediately think the call was suspicious. 
He didnt foresee the risk as he thought he was dealing with his bank. Furthermore, the 
cover story he was given  that his account was at risk and fraud was being attempted  
created a sense of pressure and urgency. This is a social engineering tactic used to affect 
the mindset of the victim, and persuade them there is a need to act quickly, without much 
time to think things through, in order to protect their funds.
While I appreciate Mr R did enter codes, and that there was a scam warning in the OTP 
message he was sent, he has explained he didnt register the warning, and had been 
prepared by the scammer to expect the codes. In the heat of the moment and in the wider 
circumstances Ive mentioned above, I dont think his action were unreasonable such that he 
should be held at fault for his loss. 
Although the format of the call was slightly different to one Mr R had received from Tide 
previously, he has also highlighted the similarities and the information the caller held which 
convinced him it was genuine. I dont think he is to blame for not realising it was a scam. He 
did in fact reach out over chat to verify the call, albeit around 10 minutes after making the 
payments. Still, his actions dont suggest he was acting without regard for risk; its just that 
he didnt immediately identify the warning signs. 
Overall, to resolve things, I think Tide should reimburse Mr R for the money he lost to the 
scam, along with interest to compensate him for the loss of use of the funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right, I direct ClearBank Limited to refund Mr R for the scam payments, less any amounts 
already recovered or refunded. It must pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible
ClearBank Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of when we tell it Mr R 
accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman