DRN-4082141
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed removing inaccurate information from his 
credit file, causing him significant financial loss.
What happened
In November 2020 two accounts were opened with HSBC in Mr Ms name; a current account 
and a credit card account. In May 2021, while in the process of applying for a mortgage to 
buy a property, Mr M discovered that these accounts had been opened and contacted HSBC 
to say that he had not opened them himself.
HSBC accepted that Mr M had not opened these accounts, and they had been opened 
fraudulently in his name. It said it would close the accounts and remove any information 
regarding them from Mr Ms credit file. The credit card was immediately removed from Mr 
Ms credit file, but there was a delay in information about the current account being updated 
on Mr Ms credit file with one of the Credit Reference Agencies.
Mr M says that because of this delay he was unable to complete on the property purchase 
before 30 June 2021, which meant that he missed out on the stamp duty holiday that was in 
place at the time, costing him over £12,500. HSBC did not agree that it was responsible for 
any delay, but Mr M remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our Investigator looked at what had happened and agreed that HSBC had caused a delay in 
the information on Mr Ms credit file being updated. He recommended that HSBC pay Mr M 
£1,000 to recognise the impact of that delay. But the Investigator did not think that HSBC 
could fairly be held responsible for the entire financial loss that Mr M was claiming.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 11 April 2023. HSBC did not make any new 
comments. Mr M responded to explain why he felt the loss incurred was his  rather than a 
loss for his limited company  and why he therefore still felt he should be reimbursed for this 
loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
There appears to be no argument here that the two accounts in question were opened 
fraudulently and therefore are not Mr Ms responsibility and should not be recorded on his 
credit file. The question then is whether HSBC caused a significant and avoidable delay in 
updating the information on Mr Ms credit file, whether that delay is then the sole reason that 
Mr M was unable to complete the property purchase in time to take advantage of the stamp 
duty holiday, and whether HSBC can therefore be fairly held responsible for that loss.
HSBCs notes show that Mr M made contact about the fraudulent accounts on 4 May 2021. 
HSBC sent him a letter a few days later confirming that the accounts had been opened 
fraudulently and that any applications would be cancelled and outstanding balances 
removed. I consider that this letter made it clear that the accounts were not Mr Ms 
responsibility.
At this time HSBC also told Mr M it would take steps to update his credit file to remove any 
record of these accounts. It appears that the credit card account was removed relatively 
quickly, but the current account remained on Mr Ms credit file with one of the credit 
reference agencies  which Ill call E. Ive seen internal notes from E which show it was in 
communication with HSBC, but there seems to have been some confusion on HSBCs part 
and it told E on 19 March 2021 that the details on Mr Ms credit file about that account were 
correct. 
E then passed this on to Mr M who queried what HSBC had told E, so E went back to HSBC 
to ask for clarification. HSBCs response to E was that Mr M should contact its fraud team. 
Mr M was already in contact with the fraud team during this period. HSBC did not tell E to 
remove the record regarding this account until 1 July 2021.
With all this in mind, I consider that HSBC did cause a delay in information about the 
fraudulent current account being removed from Mr Ms credit file. If it had responded 
accurately to Es queries then I think it is likely the information relating to the fraudulent 
account would have been removed much earlier.
Mr M has provided a copy of the mortgage offer, which included a clause that the arrears on 
his credit file must be removed before the mortgage would be agreed, and Mr M had told 
HSBC this was the case. He has also provided a letter from his solicitors confirming that all 
parties to the property purchase were ready to proceed and committed to completing by 30 
June 2021 in order to benefit from the stamp duty holiday. 
I agree that the evidence Mr M has provided suggests that the reason the property purchase 
did not complete on time is that there was a delay  caused by HSBC  in his credit file 
being updated. 
However, under our rules I can only make an award to the eligible complainant. Here, the 
eligible complaint is Mr M. But the mortgage in question was not being taken out by Mr M 
himself, but by a limited company that he is a director of. And it therefore follows that the 
alleged loss incurred here  that the purchaser of the property (the limited company) had to 
pay additional stamp duty  isnt Mr Ms loss (at least not directly). I appreciate that Mr M 
says he used his own personal funds to cover the stamp duty, but that does not change the 
fact that the loss was ultimately a loss for the limited company that he chose to use his 
personal funds to cover.
As the alleged loss is not the eligible complainants, its not within my powers to require 
HSBC to reimburse it. It follows I cannot make an award for compensation in the way Mr M 
would like. But, this matter did cause Mr M a great deal of distress and inconvenience, and it 
is within my powers to make an award in recognition of that. And I am satisfied that the 
£1,000 our Investigator recommended, and that HSBC has now agreed to pay, is 
appropriate compensation in the circumstances.
Mr M has responded to my provisional decision with some more detail about how the limited 
company was set up and funded. I appreciate that the company funds came from his and his 
wifes personal accounts, and I also understand that he paid for the stamp duty from his own 
funds. But the fact remains that the owner of the property  and the holder of the mortgage  
was the limited company, a separate legal entity, and so regardless of how the stamp duty was ultimately paid it was the limited company that was responsible for that payment and so 
the loss was incurred by the limited company. And as I explained, the limited company is not 
an eligible complainant for the purposes of this complaint, so I cannot make any award for 
the loss it incurred, even though it was Mr M who ultimately covered the stamp duty from his 
own funds.
I understand that this is not the answer Mr M was hoping to receive, but I remain satisfied 
that the £1,000 compensation our investigator recommended is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint HSBC should pay Mr M £1,000
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman