DRN-1458064
Complaint
Mr H complains that IG Markets Limited stopped him from holding shares in a company hed 
invested in. He says it sold his shares without his consent for a loss.
Background
Mr H bought shares in company C, through IG. In April 2019 IG wrote to Mr H to say they 
had taken the decision to stop allowing clients to trade shares in that particular company 
through their platform.
They said Mr H needed to sell his shares, but if he didnt do so within a month, they would 
do so for him. Mr H didnt take any action and a month later IG sold his shares. They were 
sold at a loss.
Mr H complained because he didnt think it was fair for IG to leave him with a loss as a result 
of their decision to withdraw this companys shares from their platform. He said they should 
have reimbursed the original purchase price of the shares or allowed him to transfer the 
shares to another platform. He didnt think it was right that IG was allowed to access his 
shares and sell them without his consent.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think IG had treated Mr H 
unfairly. So, he didnt think they needed to compensate him for any losses. He thought it was 
within the scope of IGs discretion to add or remove the shares they allowed people to buy 
and sell on their platform. And he thought they had given Mr H enough notice to sell the 
shares and repurchase them elsewhere if hed wanted to keep holding them.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He said IG ought to 
have let him move his shares elsewhere rather than forcing him to sell them. He felt IG 
should at least split the loss hed suffered.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says IG shouldnt have let him buy shares in company C to begin with, if they were 
aware they might have to stop offering those shares later on. So, they should reimburse him 
the initial purchase price  putting him in the position hed have been in had he never 
invested.
IG, like any other business, ought to be able to use their commercial judgement to introduce 
and withdraw the products and services they offer over time, for a multitude of reasons. They 
chose to allow Mr H to trade in company C shares and I cant see anything to suggest they 
shouldnt reasonably have taken that decision. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell IG to 
refund the money Mr H lost on the trade.IG didnt advise Mr H to buy the shares; he made his own investment decision. 
Unfortunately, the shares he bought dropped in value, but I dont think it would be fair to hold 
IG responsible for that.
As Ive said, I dont think it was fundamentally unreasonable for IG to withdraw company Cs 
shares from the broker service they offered Mr H. But I do think they needed to ensure they 
complied with their own terms and conditions and took steps to minimise or eliminate any 
negative impact on Mr H as a consequence of their decision.
IGs terms say they can terminate or suspend the arrangements within the agreement by 
giving 30 days written notice. Thats what they did. Im satisfied this was a reasonable 
period to provide Mr H in order to make alternative arrangements. As Mr H didnt take any 
action within the 30 day notice period, IG sold Mr Hs shares. Whilst I appreciate the 
frustration Mr H felt, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably. Theyve given the relevant 
notice to allow Mr H to act on these shares himself. Once the notice period had expired, they 
were entitled to sell the shares. 
Mr H has complained IG wouldnt let him transfer his shares in specie to another provider. 
But he could have sold his shares with IG and used the money to buy the same number of 
shares with another provider  essentially the same thing as transferring them. Had Mr H 
done so and incurred any costs (brokerage fees, or if hed paid slightly more to replace the 
shares) that might have been something I thought IG should compensate him for. But as 
Mr H hasnt, to my knowledge, bought company C shares anywhere else, Im satisfied there 
are no such losses to address.
Mr H says he was forced to take a loss when IG sold his shares. But really hed already 
suffered that loss  the thing he owned (shares in company C) was worth less than when 
hed bought them. The sale of the shares simply realised that loss. Mr H might take the view 
that company C shares will go back up in value, recovering his losses. But Im not 
persuaded that IGs actions have prevented him from taking advantage of such events if 
they come to pass, by reinvesting in the shares with another platform.
Further, I note that company Cs share price became substantially lower than it was when IG 
sold Mr Hs shares. So were he to choose to continue holding them, he would have been 
able to buy the same number of shares for much less than he got for the ones he held with 
IG.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman