DRN-3219615
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr H responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
MBFS inspected the car to that standard on two occasions but theyve waived charges that 
Mr H disagreed with and that were noted in the second inspection and they are now seeking 
to make charges for the refurbishment or replacement of the alloy wheels. Mr H agrees they 
were damaged but doesnt agree with the level of the charges. So, Ive considered whether 
MBFS have been reasonable when making charges for the damaged alloys.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection report. 
The investigator has set out the standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I 
agree with his assessment, that each of the alloys has damage in excess of the 50mm limit 
across the circumference. So, I think the damage to each alloy is beyond what would be 
considered fair wear and tear.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges MBFS have made for the individual 
areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen raised by their 
competitors. If Mr H had wished to avoid the charges MBFS applied it was open to him to 
have the car repaired privately before it was returned and inspected.
Whilst the finance agreement held Mr H responsible for any mileage beyond that stipulated 
in the agreement, there was no agreement to make deductions if the car was returned with a 
lower mileage. I dont think it would therefore be fair to expect MBFS to do so.
I can see that Mr H has been upset that MBFS have continued to pursue payment on the 
account whilst his complaint has been in progress. Whilst businesses may be willing to 
suspend collection activities when this service is considering matters, we cant insist they do, 
and for that reason it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest MBFS have done anything wrong in 
that respect. 
Mr H has explained that when he attempted to extend the lease term MBFS refused to do so 
unless the new vehicle he was taking receipt of was a Mercedes. It was for MBFS to decide 
whether they provided a contract extension and there wasnt an obligation under the 
contract. So, whilst I can understand Mr Hs frustration, Im afraid it wouldnt be fair to 
suggest MBFS made a mistake when not providing an extended contract.
So, overall, I dont think MBFS have done anything wrong here and it follows that Im also 
not persuaded that theyve breached any of the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles for 
business as Mr H suggests they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman