DRN-2103793
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined her claim for storm damage 
under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J returned home to find that several tiles had been blown off her roof during a storm. She 
contacted her insurer which immediately declined her claim saying that weather in her area 
didnt meet storm conditions. Ms J was unhappy with its response and cancelled her policy 
with Ageas. She paid for the repairs herself.
Ms J remained dissatisfied with Ageas response to her claim. A few months later, she 
complained that it hadnt asked for any evidence of the damage from her, such as photos, 
nor had it sent anyone to inspect the damage. She didnt think it had acted fairly. 
In the absence of any definitive evidence, our investigator thought there were storm 
conditions on the day of Ms Js claim and that Ageas should:
pay the repair costs on receipt of evidence of costs, or, if not available, the amount it 
would typically pay for this type of repair, and
pay Ms J £250 for the trouble and upset she experienced.
Ageas didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold Ms Js 
complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms Js complaint but with a different outcome. I realise 
that this means itll be a while longer until this matter comes to an end, but I think its fair in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
For me to decide whether it was fair for Ageas to decline Ms Js claim, I must first decide 
whether there were storm conditions in the area where she lives. 
Ive looked at both sets of weather reports and each show slightly different information. The 
report our investigator used shows storm force winds. The report Ageas used shows wind 
speeds slightly below the generally accepted criteria for a storm. In the absence of 
consistency, Ive looked at how close to the definition boundary each of the reported wind 
speeds lies  so, was the wind speed only just below or just above the storm definition. The 
report Ageas relied upon is closer to the lower end of the storm definition whereas the report 
this service relied upon shows the windspeed as significantly above the lower end of the 
storm definition. If I take the middle ground of the two reported wind speeds, it meets the 
definition of a storm. 
Ive also looked at the area surrounding the property and I can see that its open countryside. 
Therefore, Ms Js home is unlikely to benefit from protection against the weather usually 
provided by other buildings. It is feasible, then, that the windspeed was higher near her 
exposed property. 
So, for these reasons, along with the fact that a named, major storm was widely reported 
across the UK on that day, Im satisfied that there was a storm.
At this point, if Ageas had accepted that there were storm conditions, it wouldve looked at 
whether the damage was typical of that caused by a storm and, if so, were the storm 
conditions the main cause of the damage. These points would ordinarily be determined by 
photos or a site visit. In light of the publicised storm conditions on the day, I think Ageas 
shouldve arranged that. It didnt and it may not be possible, now, for Ageas to investigate 
Ms Js claim because, understandably, she had the roof repaired.
I dont think Ageas acted fairly in declining Ms Js claim for the reasons it gave at the time 
and she may have lost out on the benefit of her cover. So, I think Ageas should accept that 
there was a storm and reconsider the claim from that starting point. I would expect Ageas to 
follow the usual process and consider whether the damage is typical of that caused by a 
storm and whether the storm conditions were likely to be the main cause of the damage. If it 
decides to accept Ms Js claim, then it should pay the roof repair costs. 
Ms J has provided a copy of the receipt showing she paid £375 for the emergency roof 
repair and Ageas is aware of the cost. 
To be clear, Im not directing Ageas to accept the claim. Ive determined that it shouldve 
accepted there was a storm and therefore it should decide now whether to accept the claim 
under the remaining terms of the policy.
I also think compensation is warranted by way of apology for the service shortfalls detailed 
throughout my decision, as follows: 
it wasnt reasonable to rely on weather reports alone when there was clear evidence 
from other sources, including news reports and media, that a major storm was 
happening at the time of Ms Js call;
Ageas declined the claim without carrying out an adequate investigation, and
Ms J was inconvenienced by having to arrange and pay for roof repairs when she 
mightve been able to benefit from her buildings insurance.
However, I dont think the service shortfalls warrant a payment of £250. I realise Ms J may 
be disappointed by my decision, but I think a payment of £125 is more appropriate in the 
circumstances.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Ms Js claim for storm damage under her buildings insurance, from the 
starting point that there were storm conditions on the day her roof was damaged, 
taking into consideration whether the damage is typical of that caused by a storm and 
whether storm conditions were likely to be the main cause of the damage, and 
pay Ms J £125 for the trouble and upset she experienced as a result of its service 
shortfalls.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ageas responded with a settlement offer, which Ms J rejected. It made a second settlement 
offer of £350 which Ms J decided to accept.
Ms J responded to say she was happy with the outcome but had concerns the matter would 
drag on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I decided that there were storm conditions and that Ageas shouldve considered Ms Js 
claim. It was for Ageas to then decide whether the claim was valid in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy. It may not have been, but Ageas felt it was appropriate to offer Ms J a 
settlement to bring the matter to an end. 
Ageas offered to pay half of the repair cost, less the excess, along with the suggested 
compensation of £125. Ms J declined its offer because she didnt think she should pay the 
excess.
On review, Ageas thought it was appropriate to increase its offer to the full repair cost 
(£375), less the excess (£150), plus the compensation (£125). I thought it was fair for Ageas 
to deduct the excess because Ms J wouldve always had to pay that for her claim. 
Ms J accepted its offer of £350 in total.
As both parties are satisfied with the settlement, and I think its a fair offer, I see no reason to 
ask Ageas to do anything different. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Js 
complaint.
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms J £350 which is the compensation and cost of the roof repairs, less her 
excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman