DRN-3075090
The complaint
Mr L complains that Starling Bank Limited failed to conduct a proper investigation into 
payments he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr L noticed a payment to an online merchant that he didnt recognise. Mr L was advised by 
the merchant, who Ill refer to as G, to dispute the payment with Starling. When he raised 
this with Starling, they identified a second payment to G that Mr L also didnt recognise.
Starling started a chargeback process to challenge the payments on Mr Ls behalf. Starling 
needed a declaration from Mr L to start the chargeback, which included several questions 
about what had happened. Mr L thought that Starling were more focussed on the process 
rather than his situation. He explained to Starling that he hadnt made the transactions and 
his account with G had been compromised. Mr L felt that he wasnt being treated as a victim 
of fraud by the way Starling communicated with him. 
Once Starling received the declaration back from Mr L, they started the chargeback process 
and sent the information to G. Starling advised Mr L about this and told him the timescales 
and that they were refunding the disputed transactions into his account. They also told Mr L 
that if the chargeback was invalid, the merchant may take the money back out of his 
account. G defended the chargeback, which meant they provided evidence that they 
believed the transaction was made by Mr L and the items were delivered to his home 
address.
Starling accepted this and notified Mr L that the funds were going to be removed from his 
account and gave a date when this would happen, but the date was incorrect. A couple of 
weeks later, Starling wrote to Mr L and told him the funds were going to be removed by the 
end of the following day.  Mr L asked for a delay because he said that he never saw the 
earlier messages notifying him of the date of removal.
Starling didnt change the date and removed the funds from Mr Ls account, requiring Mr L to 
use his overdraft for about a week. Mr L made a complaint about how Starling had handled 
the situation. Starling investigated Mr Ls complaint and recognised they made an error in 
the date of the redebit and they could have handled the information provided during the 
process better. Starling offered £25 to compensate Mr L for this. 
Starling didnt change their minds about the other parts of Mr Ls complaint because they 
believed theyd investigated the matter in line with the chargeback process. Mr L was 
unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. It was 
looked into by one of our investigators who thought that Starling had acted reasonably. 
Mr L disagreed and still considered that hed been treated poorly, and Starling hadnt carried 
out a proper investigation. He also maintained that Starling failed to properly communicate 
with him and didnt provide the appropriate notice when they redebited the funds. 
Mr L was still in discussion with G, who independently refunded the contested payments 
back to Mr L.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has now received a refund from G. Because the funds have been repaid, Ill only be 
considering the remaining complaint made by Mr L - which is how Starling dealt with the 
chargeback.
Starling challenged the disputed transactions on behalf of Mr L using the chargeback 
system. This is operated by the scheme operator , in this case, Mastercard. Chargebacks 
are decided by the scheme operator and follow specific rules which the banks and 
merchants have to follow. The chargeback system relies on evidence produced by each 
party to decide the outcome and is usually started by the cardholders bank using a 
declaration to gather the facts. 
Mr L has explained that the way Starling dealt with the situation made him feel as though the 
process was more important than he was, which was a victim of these unauthorised 
transactions. Ive examined the correspondence and in particular the questions that Starling 
asked Mr L. I thought the questions they asked were directed to establishing the situation in 
support of a chargeback request. Its normal for a business such as Starling to ask such 
questions in these types of situations and I didnt think they inferred anything negative about 
Mr L.
Mr L also said he wasnt given an opportunity to provide evidence in support of his situation. 
The declaration also included a general request that Mr L could provide any evidence he 
wished in support of his claim  so I dont think that Starling ignored his side of the story. 
A few days after receiving the declaration, Starling sent the information to G and advised Mr 
L what was happening. The message included information that the refund had been put back 
into Mr Ls account. It also said that if the claim was invalid, then the merchant may take 
the money back out of the account, unless further evidence was received. Mr L has said he 
didnt receive this message from Starling. 
Starling received Gs response and the evidence indicated that the order had been made 
from Mr Ls account and delivery had been made to Mr Ls address. But due to internal 
delays, the update to Mr L was delayed for several weeks. Once Starling updated Mr L, they 
notified him that the chargeback had been defended and the money was going to be 
redebited from his account and gave a date. This date was wrong (it referred to an earlier 
date in the year).
Mr L has said he didnt receive this message in his Starling app, or the duplicate message 
sent to his email address. But, Mr L referred to the earlier message when he contested the 
deduction in a later email to Starling. I think it would have been unlikely that he wasnt aware 
of the message to deduct his account as he refers to the wrong dates  which were only 
contained in one set of messages from Starling. Ive also not seen anything to suggest that 
there was a problem with either messaging system employed by Starling. Starling again notified Mr L a couple of days before the charges were to be removed from his 
account, which is when he says he first saw the notification about it. He asked Starling to 
delay this, but the money was removed from his account a few days later.  Mr L has told us 
that he had to use his overdraft for about a week after the funds were taken back out of his 
account. I appreciate that this caused Mr L to go into his overdraft, but I think it likely that Mr 
L was aware that his account could be redebited at some point in the future and Starling 
didnt redebit the account until two weeks after they first notified him of the date. I think 
Starling gave Mr L reasonable notice that this was going to happen and because theyd used 
the chargeback process and G had defended it, the redebit of the account was the next step 
in the process.
Having looked at the timeline of the events, there was a delay at one point, which Starling 
have explained was in one of their teams. I understand Mr Ls point about not hearing 
enough from Starling, as its no doubt frustrating to go for periods without knowing whats 
happening. I think the delay Mr L experienced was similar to other people during that time. It 
was the middle of the pandemic and everyone, including businesses were adjusting to the 
situation. If the delay by Starling had resulted in further relevant evidence being excluded, 
then I would have a different perspective about this. But, Starlings delay, whilst unfortunate, 
didnt change the outcome of the chargeback because no further evidence was presented to 
them by Mr L. It would have been preferable for Mr L to have been updated sooner about the 
response from G. Although that would probably have resulted in the redebit taking place 
much earlier. Starling did recognise that they could have communicated better with Mr L and 
I think the £25 compensation they offered was a reasonable amount.
Taking everything into account, Starling used the chargeback process to challenge the 
charges made by G and they followed the appropriate steps. I dont think the questions 
asked by Starling were inappropriate or inferred anything negative about Mr L. Starling gave 
Mr L the opportunity to present any evidence he could, so I dont think they were ignoring his 
situation. Once the charges were successfully defended by G, the decision to redebit the 
account was the next step and appropriate notice was given about this, although there was 
some confusion over the actual date. But, Starling didnt redebit the money for two weeks 
after the notification. I think the compensation offered was a reasonable amount for the 
errors caused by Starling and I wont be asking them to increase this and it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman