DRN-2232698
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich (Woolwich) acted unfairly 
when he needed to contact it about getting a payment holiday for his mortgage due to the 
impact of the global pandemic on his income. He wants more compensation.
What happened
Mr P had a residential mortgage with Woolwich and was self-employed. In March 2020, it 
became clear he would struggle to pay his mortgage payment due to the impact of the 
pandemic on his ability to earn. Mr P said he immediately tried to contact Woolwich to ask 
for a payment holiday, but he spent days trying to get through, spending up to three and a 
half hours in phone queues at a time. 
Mr P then found out that there was an online form he could use to ask for a payment holiday 
as Woolwich was struggling to manage to answer all the calls it was receiving, and used that 
to apply. Mr P said the form wasnt promptly dealt with and he then spent more days trying to 
reach Woolwich. Mr P said that Woolwich knew about his mental health difficulties and didnt 
respond as promised to his calls, despite sending him text messages telling him he hadnt 
paid Marchs mortgage payment. Later in March, the payment holiday was agreed.
Mr P complained. Woolwich initially said Mr Ps credit records wouldnt be affected and paid 
£100 for the poor customer experience he received. It later confirmed that his credit records 
would be cleansed within 28 days and paid another £75 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the initial change to Mr Ps credit records (which it said would be reversed) 
and the further poor customer service.
Mr P complained to us and explained that he felt £175 wasnt enough for the stress he had 
suffered, and he was particularly worried about his credit records. Mr P said his records had 
been affected again and hed been sent letters from Woolwich saying that he was in arrears 
for March - June 2020. Mr P had applied for an extension to the payment holiday and felt this 
had also been handled poorly, so he had complained again to Woolwich since complaining 
to this service. 
Woolwich explained that while it hadnt reported any new mortgage arrears to the credit 
reference agencies, it hadnt been able to send out letters about the payment holiday 
extension due to system issues and arrears letters were going out automatically. It had paid 
another £240 compensation for continued poor customer service and agreed to amend any 
entries about the payment holiday in Mr Ps credit records.
The investigators view was that Mr Ps credit records would be unaffected and the pandemic 
had affected both Mr P and Woolwich. She wasnt persuaded that Mr P wouldnt be able to 
get credit in the future. The investigator felt £415 compensation was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances, particularly bearing in mind the unprecedented situation faced by 
Woolwich when trying to help their consumers. She that that it wasnt possible for Woolwich 
to operate as normal.
Mr P disagreed. He said that his credit records hadnt been corrected yet and didnt feel like 
a satisfied customer. Woolwich sent evidence of the correction of Mr Ps credit records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to deal with the core of this complaint, which is about how Woolwich handled 
Mr Ps attempts to contact it in March 2020, and again when he needed an extension to the 
payment holiday, as well as his concerns about the potential impact on his credit records. 
This means Ill be looking at all three complaints, including the one made after the complaint 
was referred to this service as theyre all intertwined and Woolwich has investigated them all.
Financial businesses must deal with consumers in financial difficulties fairly. Fairness is a 
flexible concept, affected significantly by the facts of each case. In Mr Ps case, I cant ignore 
the fact that while the pandemic had a huge effect on him and his family, Woolwich was also 
affected. Thousands of customers suddenly needed to speak to it and its associated 
businesses, each worried and distressed about the impact upon their mortgages and homes. 
Staff were also unable to work as normal.
I entirely accept that for Mr P, it mustve been very stressful, particularly given his history 
with Woolwich, to be unable to speak to Woolwich easily and ask for a payment holiday. But 
I think where Woolwich went wrong wasnt the fact that the queues for the phones were so 
long, but in failing to deal with the online payment holiday request promptly. It meant Mr P 
had to call and join the queues several days later, and was then told the payment holiday 
hadnt been actioned. It was also unfair and unreasonable for Woolwich to make a mistake 
in setting up the payment holiday, which led to the arrears letters and texts. This increased 
Mr Ps stress and concerns, as did the change to this credit records and the inability to 
confirm the extension of the payment holiday in writing due to system issues.
But Woolwich has cleansed Mr Ps credit records and undertaken to do so again if negative 
entries relating to the payment holiday or extension appear. Mr P hasnt provided any 
evidence that his future ability to lend will be affected, particularly in light of Woolwichs 
promise. And it isnt my role to punish businesses for making mistakes; my role is to put 
consumers back into the position they shouldve been in all along. While money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, I think a total of £415 does fairly and reasonably 
compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset caused by the unnecessary calls to get his 
payment holiday after submitting the online form, the mistakes made in setting up the 
payment holiday, receipt of the arrears letters and texts, the inability to have the extension of 
the payment holiday confirmed in writing and the poor customer service generally.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
9 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman