DRN-3519955
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Quilter Financial Services Ltd mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2012. Although it was a joint mortgage, the 
policy was set up just to cover Mr S for accident, sickness and unemployment.
What happened
Quilter originally objected that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the policy being mis-sold was 
out of time and therefore could not be looked at. However, another Ombudsman has 
explained why we can look at the complaint, albeit in a limited way, due to the DISP rules 
having a limited exception to the PPI deadline for certain mis-selling complaints which relate 
to a declined claim. Mr and Mrs Ss complaint complies with this exception as a result of Mr 
S having a sickness claim declined in 2020, which was the point at which Mr and Mrs S 
would have understood that the policy may have been mis-sold. However, in this scenario, 
we can only look at the part of the complaint that relates specifically to the reasons why the 
claim was rejected.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Quilter disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
It is clear from the sales documentation that Quilter advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the 
PPI. Therefore, the onus was on Quilter, not just to highlight the significant limitations and 
exclusions, but to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of the policy. If it was 
making a recommendation that didnt fully fit with Mr and Mrs Ss needs then it was obliged 
to point this out to them when making that recommendation.
The policy placed limitations on pre-existing medical conditions. The policy also has a total 
exclusion on chronic conditions. I can see that Mr S disclosed some medical conditions at 
the time of the sale as this is recorded on the application summary form for life insurance, 
which Mr S was also sold. The conditions he disclosed meet the definition under the policy 
for both pre-existing and chronic. Therefore, Mr S would never have been able to make a 
successful claim for any of these conditions. As already mentioned, the insurer did decline a 
claim in 2020, and this was because Mr Ss GP had confirmed that he had medical 
conditions that were both chronic and that pre-dated the point of sale.
As Mr S had pre-existing and chronic conditions, Quilter should not have advised Mr and 
Mrs S that the policy met their needs. However, despite being aware of Mr Ss medical 
history, it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs S without caution.
Overall, I find it unlikely in the circumstances that Mr and Mrs S would have gone ahead with 
buying the policy if they had understood that Mr Ss pre-existing and chronic conditions 
would not be covered. Thats because they would not have considered it to be good value 
for money in their situation. The rest of the benefits of the PPI would not have been 
sufficiently attractive to outweigh the shortcomings in this particular case.
Putting things right
Quilter should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
Therefore, Quilter should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Quilter can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs S.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quilter to take off tax from this interest. Quilter must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require Quilter Financial Services 
Ltd to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman