DRN-4259573
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that their mortgage lender Nationwide Building Society hasnt offered 
them suitable support during their period of financial difficulty. They complain that options to 
help get their mortgage back on track havent been fully considered before starting legal 
action. 
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Nationwide. They borrowed £126,399 
(inclusive of fees) on interest and capital repayment over a term of 17 years. 
In 2020 Mr A told Nationwide that him and Mrs A were in financial difficulty due to a change 
in their circumstances. Mr As ability to work was impacted by his ill health. 
Sadly, Mr and Mrs As circumstances didnt improve. Mr A was unable to return to work 
indefinitely and Mrs A also subsequently stopped working to care for Mr A. This had a 
significant impact on their household income and from June 2022, they stopped making 
payments towards their mortgage which caused arrears to rapidly accrue.
During 2022 Nationwide agreed time for Mr and Mrs A to make arrangements for 
government support. Nil payment arrangements were agreed for several months. 
Mr A was in the process of appealing the outcome of his Personal Independent Payment 
(PIP) application and the amount awarded. Nationwide was willing to offer more time for the 
outcome of that appeal, but I can see honest conversations took place about the mortgage 
not becoming any more affordable again, even after taking into account the expected 
increased PIP payments. 
In November 2022 Nationwide carried out an up-to-date affordability assessment - so it 
could consider possible long-term support. Based on Mr and Mrs As benefit payments at the 
time - taking into account their existing outgoings (including their capital repayment 
mortgage payments) they were in a monthly deficit of around £2,583. The affordability 
assessment was also carried out using interest only mortgage repayments to see if that 
could be a solution, but that still produced a monthly deficit of around £1,535.
By early 2023 Mr and Mrs As account was in arrears of more than £9,000. They were of the 
realisation that theyd either need to consider Equity release or make arrangements to sell 
their property to repay their mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide discussed the option of 
Equity Release but unfortunately Mr and Mrs A didnt qualify due to a second charge held on 
their property. Nationwide suggested they seek independent financial advice to explore other 
possible lenders. Mr and Mrs A were also informed of the timescales for a private sale, but it 
doesnt appear that they explored that further.
As it did not appear that there was any real prospect of Mr and Mrs As circumstances 
improving, Nationwide explained that unless they were able to repay their arrears, it intended 
to start legal action.  
Mr and Mrs A complained to Nationwide. They feel they havent been properly supported or 
offered any other alternative options to help make their mortgage more affordable  including 
stopping their payments until the outcome of Mr As benefits income appeal.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that it had considered taking legal 
action as a last resort. It said that after assessing Mr and Mrs As circumstances, it didnt 
consider any of the possible long term concessionary options appropriate for them, as if 
implemented, any of the available options would only make their financial situation worse. 
Nationwide also said that it would make little difference waiting for the outcome of the PIP 
application, because even when taking the expected benefit payments into account, the 
mortgage would still be unaffordable for them.
Nationwide signposted Mr and Mrs A to suitable debt charities and offered them the option of 
providing an updated income and expenditure assessment to reassess their situation in case 
of any changes. It doesnt appear that any updated information has been provided to date. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and explained why she didnt think Nationwide had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, so she didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs A disagree that Nationwide has properly considered all the available options 
including switching their mortgage to interest only  which they say Nationwide has made no 
mention of to date. Mr and Mrs A say the income and expenditure information held by 
Nationwide isnt up to date or accurate because it doesnt take into account all the benefit 
payments. They remained unhappy with the outcome reached so asked for the case to be 
decided by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs A have been through and continue to go through a difficult time  I 
do empathise with their circumstances. Ive given careful consideration to all the 
submissions made by both parties, having done so, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A. But I hope the reasons 
I have set out below will help them to understand why I have come to this conclusion.
The regulator of financial services, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules for 
lenders that it expects them to abide by. The rules can be found in the FCAs Handbook, 
available online, in the chapter headed MCOB.
These rules require lenders to treat borrowers facing financial difficulty fairly, to try and 
ensure the mortgage can be paid and to ensure repossession is a last resort. The rules 
require lenders to consider what forbearance options are appropriate in the circumstances of 
the individual customer. 
The rules also state that in doing so, the lender must ensure that any variation made to the 
mortgage (for example, extending the term or changing the payment method) must be 
affordable for the customer. The starting point is for a lender to carry out an affordability 
assessment, to determine ability to repay the mortgage. The difference between the possible forbearance options available depends on whether the 
consumer is experiencing short-term or long-term financial difficulty. And in any event, there 
must be prospect of the customers circumstances improving and them being able to get their 
mortgage back on track and being able to repay it by the end of the term.
In considering this complaint, Ive considered whether Nationwide has acted, as Id expect, 
in accordance with the rules. When considering everything, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Nationwide has acted unfairly in the circumstances. During the early stages it offered a 
short-term solution by the way of reduced payment arrangements, to allow Mr and Mrs A 
time to make their benefits arrangements which they had applied for in early 2022. 
Once in place, it would be suitable to carry out an affordability assessment to agree an 
affordable plan to get the mortgage back on track. This was delayed by the appeal Mr A 
made to his PIP application. He thought he should receive more money. Nationwide patiently 
waited, but by late 2022, Mr A was no closer to the outcome of his appeal. Arrears continued 
to rapidly accrue so Nationwide had no option but to assess Mr and Mrs As circumstances 
using their current income to decide a suitable way forward. 
Mr and Mrs A recorded their household income at around £834 a month. After considering 
their monthly outgoings they were in deficit of around £2,583. 
Part of Mr and Mrs As response to the investigators view is that Nationwide failed to 
consider a possible switch to interest only. I can confirm that the affordability assessment 
carried out was also done on interest only terms, but that also returned a monthly deficit of 
around £1,535.
So, Im satisfied this option was considered by Nationwide. It didnt consider this was an 
appropriate way to offer support as Mr and Mrs A still could not afford an interest only 
mortgage. Nationwide also said it couldnt extend the term of Mr and Mrs As mortgage 
because the monthly payments, while lower, would still be unaffordable. 
Mr and Mrs A also feel that it would help their situation if Nationwide offered them a new 
interest rate. Taking out a new interest rate is often not in the customers best interest where 
theyre experiencing long term financial difficulty and struggling with their mortgage. I say 
this because where there is a likelihood of them needing to sell their property or becoming 
repossessed by their lender, then theyd have to pay an early repayment charge  reducing 
any remaining capital on the property or causing a larger shortfall in some circumstances.
Nationwide has also considered this as an option. Whilst a new fixed rate would reduce Mr 
and Mrs As monthly mortgage payments, this wouldnt make their mortgage any more 
affordable and resolve the problem  due to the large deficit they have each month when 
considering their overall affordability. 
Nationwide has offered Mr and Mrs A the option of providing up-to-date affordability figures if 
there has been a change to their circumstances. This has not been provided yet by Mr and 
Mrs A. Until there has been any change, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to 
continue to rely on the information it used to carry out the last assessment in November 
2002 when deciding the next course of action in relation to the account. Although I dont 
expect Nationwide to rely on projected figures (as these cant be guaranteed), I must also 
add that even when considering the projected benefit figures provided by Mr A previously, 
the outcome of the affordability assessment would still produce a large deficit  making all 
the options discussed unaffordable.   As some time as passed since this complaint has been with our service, I do encourage both 
parties to engage further to reassess Mr and Mrs As circumstances. Unless there has been 
a significant change that impacts the affordability of the mortgage, I cant fairly say that 
Nationwide cant consider starting legal action in the circumstances as a last resort where 
there is no real prospect of Mr and Mrs As circumstances improving and them being able to 
get the mortgage back on track. It would not be responsible of Nationwide to allow their 
indebtedness to continue to increase. 
Nationwide has confirmed that by taking legal action it does not mean it would look to evict 
Mr and Mrs A immediately, as it will discuss a possible repayment agreement with the court 
in the first instance.
Im sorry about the difficult circumstances Mr and Mrs A are dealing with, and that they feel 
Nationwide didnt offer support in the form they would have preferred. But overall, I dont 
think it treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman