DRN-3657007
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled her request for a 
refund in relation to an accommodation booking she cancelled due to Covid-19.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs H used an online booking website, who Ill refer to as B, to book 
accommodation with a supplier Ill refer to as C, for a holiday abroad. The holiday was due 
to take place from 20 July 2020 to 4 August 2020. Mrs H used her Nationwide credit card for 
the deposit which was £925.95.
Due to Covid-19, Mrs H said in May 2020, as a result of the uncertainty with travelling to the 
destination for UK citizens, Mrs H contacted B and C to ask what would happen if she wasnt 
able to travel to destination due to travel restrictions. Mrs H says she felt she didnt get any 
help, so she called Nationwide on 8 June 2020 to ask if the accommodation was cancelled, 
would she be able to recover the deposit shed paid from Nationwide themselves. Mrs H 
says she was advised by Nationwide that if she could provide evidence the accommodation 
had been cancelled then shed get her money back. Mrs H says she clarified at that point if it 
would be the same if she was to cancel the booking and Nationwide confirmed it was  that 
shed get a refund of the deposit she paid.
Mrs H then went back to both B and C and enquired about receiving a refund for the booking 
as she explained she wasnt able to travel to the destination. C wrote to Mrs H on 16 June 
2020 and said they wouldnt offer a free cancellation, but they can offer to change the dates 
of the booking to future dates. Mrs B said due to work commitments, she cannot change the 
date of her trip. B then wrote to Mrs H on 17 June 2020 to let her know that C declined to 
process a refund. 
The outstanding balance was owing under the booking but as nothing changed in relation to 
the travel restrictions that were in place at the time, Mrs H reluctantly cancelled the booking 
shed made with C via B on 18 June 2020. 
Mrs B then contacted Nationwide to ask for help in getting her a refund and she raised a 
chargeback claim on 23 June 2020. However, the claim wasnt successful as Nationwide 
explained the booking terms, which Mrs B agreed to when making this booking, were clear in 
saying the booking was non-refundable. So, Nationwide didnt feel they had grounds to 
pursue the claim.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Hs concerns. In summary, he didnt think Nationwide acted 
unfairly in not pursuing Mrs Hs chargeback claim. He said this was because the booking 
terms and conditions confirmed the booking was non-refundable. Our Investigator also said 
the travel restrictions in place at the time Mrs H was due to travel meant she wasnt able to 
gain entry into the destination. So even if she hadnt cancelled the booking, Mrs H wouldnt 
have been able to make use of the accommodation C were providing. Our Investigator also 
looked into whether Mrs H would have had a successful Section 75 claim. In summary, he 
said Mrs H cancelled the booking to mitigate any further loss and to avoid the need to pay 
the remaining balance. So, by doing this, this effectively ended the contract before any 
potential breach of contract occurred. Lastly, in relation to the call Mrs H says took place on 
8 June 2020 where she says she was given the incorrect advice from Nationwide, our 
Investigator asked Nationwide for evidence of this call but wasnt able to get it. In any case, 
our Investigator concluded though there was no evidence of this call, he thought its likely 
Mrs H still wouldve chosen not to pay the remaining balance that was owed under the 
booking because of the amount of uncertainty with travelling at the time due to Covid-19. 
And he couldnt be certain that Nationwides alleged advice would have been the only 
reason Mrs H chose to cancel the booking. Overall, our Investigator felt Nationwide dealt 
with Mrs Hs complaint in a fair and reasonable way.
Mrs H disagreed. She replied and reiterated that she cancelled the booking following the 
advice she was given by Nationwide  that she would get her money back. Mrs H says had 
Nationwide explained she wouldnt get her money back, she wouldve gone on holiday had 
the travel restrictions not prevented her from entering into the destination. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
It may be helpful to firstly explain that chargeback is a method or scheme that a bank can 
use to attempt to obtain a refund for a consumer who has made payments on a credit card. 
There is no consumer right to a chargeback, but I would expect a bank to consider whether 
there is a reasonable prospect of success when they are considering whether to go through 
the chargeback process or not.  This would generally mean that the chargeback would need 
to comply with the rules set by the card scheme (Visa, in this case). However, theres no 
automatic right to a chargeback.
In Mrs Hs case, Nationwide say they werent able to raise a chargeback claim because the 
terms of the booking Mrs H agreed to when making the booking, said it wasnt refundable. 
Ive looked at the booking confirmation supplied to me and can see it says this booking is 
non-refundable, so Im satisfied this was a non-refundable booking. Before raising her 
dispute with Nationwide, Mrs H had already been in contact with C to see if she could get 
her money back had she cancelled and this was declined. So even though Nationwide didnt 
proceed with Mrs Hs chargeback claim, I dont think they acted unfairly in not doing so. I say 
this because as part of the chargeback process, Nationwide would have been required to 
raise Mrs Hs request for a refund via the card scheme. However, Mrs H had already raised 
her request for a refund to C which they declined. So, with this in mind, I think its more likely 
than not C wouldve challenged the chargeback and wouldve referred to the booking terms 
which was that it was a non-refundable booking. And I dont think the chargeback would 
have succeeded.
Mrs H says she was unable to travel to the destination because of the government 
restrictions that were in place preventing UK citizens entering into that destination. Visa 
released some rules and guidance during the pandemic which I consider to be relevant to 
Mrs Hs circumstances. The Visa guidance issued in April 2020 makes clear that there is no 
chargeback right if the cardholder chose to not make use of a service which was available 
even with government restrictions in place. So, although there may have been some travel 
restrictions in place which meant Mrs H couldnt travel to the destination, this isnt something 
Ill be able to take into account when thinking about whether Nationwide have acted fairly 
when considering Mrs Hs chargeback claim  I havent seen any evidence to suggest the accommodation Mrs H booked wasnt available for her. Instead, Mrs H chose to not go 
ahead with the booking.
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. 
In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mrs H 
paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her Nationwide credit card, and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Nationwide can be held responsible. 
However, for Section 75 to apply certain criteria needs to be satisfied relating to things like 
the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made and the cost of the goods. I 
am satisfied this is met and Section 75 applies here.
Any Section 75 claim against Nationwide is limited to any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, in this case C, in relation to the agreement to supply the 
goods. That is the extent of Nationwides liability.
It doesnt seem that Nationwide raised a Section 75 claim for Mrs H, but I dont think they 
acted unfairly in not doing so. Ill explain why.
Its clear from the communications between Mrs H, B and C that Mrs H was apprehensive 
about the booking going ahead, due to the travel guidance changing at the time as a result 
of Covid-19. In the end, Mrs H cancelled the booking as she wouldve been required to pay 
the full balance of the booking which would have resulted in more loss. However, as 
explained, the booking Mrs H made was non-refundable, so I dont find theres been a 
breach of contract caused here.
I note Mrs H has provided us with an email from the airline she was due to fly with on 2 July 
2020, showing the airline cancelled the flights she was scheduled to be on. But this isnt 
something I can hold Nationwide responsible for in this complaint as its not part of her 
contract with C.
I appreciate Mrs H says she only cancelled the booking on the advice provided by 
Nationwide that she would get a full refund. Unfortunately, Nationwide havent been able to 
provide us with a copy of that call recording, so Ive not been able to hear exactly what was 
said during this call.
Even if I accept Mrs Hs point that Nationwide gave her advice that if she cancelled the 
booking, she wouldve got a full refund, by Mrs Hs own admission and from reviewing the 
government guidance in place at the time about travelling to the destination, its unlikely Mrs 
H wouldve been able to enter into the destination due to the restrictions that were in place 
for UK citizens at the time Mrs H was due to travel. Therefore, she wouldnt have been able 
to make use of the accommodation shed booked but would have paid the full balance by 
that point. So, I think Mrs H would have been at a loss in any case.
Mrs H has told us she wouldve acted differently if she wasnt given the incorrect advice from 
Nationwide and she would have still gone to the destination as it was a much needed family 
holiday. As I say, Mrs H wouldnt have been able to enter into the destination. But again, that 
wouldnt have been Nationwides fault and the accommodation was still available. 
In addition to this, Ive seen an email from C on 16 June 2020 (8 days after Mrs H says she 
was given the incorrect information from Nationwide on 8 June 2020 and 2 days before Mrs 
H cancelled the booking on 18 June 2020), to say that unfortunately, they dont offer a free cancellation but offered to change the dates of her booking for future dates. So even if Mrs H 
was given the incorrect information from Nationwide during the call of 8 June 2020, the 
supplier themselves, C, had explained they dont offer a free cancellation but were prepared 
to offer a change of dates for the booking  which Mrs H says she wasnt able to do due to 
work commitments.
So, with all this in mind, ultimately, Mrs H cancelled the booking. And Im not persuaded that 
even if Mrs H was given the incorrect information from Nationwide, that she would have 
gone ahead with the booking for the reasons shes acknowledged  the travel restrictions 
were preventing UK citizens from entering into the destination. And while this restriction was 
in place, I havent seen any evidence to suggest the accommodation wasnt available, so I 
dont think I can fairly require Nationwide to refund Mrs H the deposit she paid.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman