DRN-2656217
The complaint
Miss H says Novaloans Ltd trading as Cash4unow, irresponsibly lent to her. 
She also complains that she missed payments on her loan and this resulted in some 
adverse information being reported on her credit file. This in turn caused her financial 
problems going forward and may have affected her husbands ability to get credit. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Cash4unow provided to Miss H between 
August and December 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the loans 
is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedmonthly 
instalmentsamount 
borroweddate repaid
1 01/08/2019 6 £600 20/12/2019
2 20/12/2019 6 £700 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Cash4unow had lent 
irresponsibly. And it hadnt provided any incorrect information to the credit reference 
agencies.  
Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She reiterated the points she had made as 
part of her initial complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out 
proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. 
Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Miss H needed to repay around £195 for the next six months. This rose to around 
£233 for loan 2 over the same period. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss H provided at the time, as well as the information 
Cash4unow gathered, when she completed her loan application. Miss H said she had a 
monthly take home of around £2,500 and she was living with friends or family. The 
information it obtained about Miss Hs other debt from her credit file didnt show large 
amounts or problems repaying credit. So, all of this makes it reasonable to say that the loan 
repayments wouldve seemed affordable to Cash4unow. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Cash4unow was made aware of 
any financial problems Miss H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Cash4unow to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Cash4unow did for these loans 
were proportionate. I think Cash4unows decisions to lend were reasonable and the 
information it gathered suggested Miss H could afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
credit file  
Miss H has said, she contacted Cash4unow in early 2020 as she was having problems 
making the repayments to loan 2. Cash4unow and Miss H arranged a repayment plan. 
I understand that there were some problems with Miss Hs card and/or bank account after 
this. In May and June 2020 when Cash4unow tried to claim the repayment it wasnt able to 
do so. The payment wasnt successful because Miss Hs bank said her card was either lost 
or stolen. Miss H has confirmed that there was a problem with her account at this time. 
Having looked at all of the circumstances around this I do understand Miss H was having a 
difficult time. But its also reasonable to say that Miss H still did have a responsibility to 
make theses repayments to the loan. And, unfortunately, she couldnt do this. 
When this happens Cash4unow does have to report repayment problems, and other related 
issues, to the credit reference agencies it uses. It doesnt have any discretion about this. So, 
I cant say it was acting incorrectly when it informed the credit reference agencies of Miss 
Hs repayment problems. 
I appreciate this may have affected Miss Hs ability to get credit elsewhere. But, as Ive said 
earlier, I dont think Cash4unow has acted incorrectly. And, in any event, the amount of 
credit a third party makes available is a matter for this third party. These decisions could 
have been affected by any number of factors and I dont know what these are. I dont know 
if any restrictions on the credit Miss H, or her husband, were due to the actions of 
Cash4unow or some other factors. So, I cant safely say that Cash4unow would be 
responsible for this. 
So overall, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I appreciate this isnt the answer Miss H 
was hoping for and I can see she feels strongly about her complaint. I hope my decision 
doesnt cause her any distress. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman