DRN-2896988
The complaint
Mr T complains about his mortgage with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd. He says UCB 
have refused him new lower rates, meaning hes paid an unfair rate of interest over the 
years.
What happened
Mr T has an interest only mortgage with UCB, made up of two accounts  the initial loan and 
later further borrowing.
Mr T says that he has been unfairly charged too much interest. He says UCB hasnt allowed 
him to take out new lower rates  even though he has never missed a payment and makes 
frequent overpayments. As a result hes been stuck paying more interest than he needed to, 
if lower rates had been given to him.
In 2007, Mr T took a fixed rate of 5.99% on one tranche of the borrowing. This rate expired in 
August 2010, when this part of the mortgage reverted to UCBs variable rate  at that time, 
this was 5.29%, so lower than the fixed rate Mr T had been paying. This part of the mortgage 
stayed at 5.29%, when it increased by 0.25% in line with Bank of England base rate. The 
rate reduced in April 2020, following cuts to base rate.
He took a two year tracker rate on the other part of the mortgage, which expired in 
September 2009. At that time, Mr Ts interest rate on this part of the mortgage increased 
from 2.29% to 4.99%. It increased again from 4.99% to 5.49% in February 2010, and stayed 
at that rate until 2018 when it increased following changes in base rate, reducing again in 
April 2020.
Our investigator said that UCB had made Mr T aware that he could apply for new rates but 
there was no evidence that he had done so. Mr T said he had asked for new rates regularly, 
only to be told there were none available to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed that we can only consider interest charged from March 2014, six 
years before Mr T first complained  interest charged before that is out of time. However, in 
order to decide whether interest charged in that timeframe is fair, its also necessary to look 
back at the history of the account over a longer period.
On one part of the account, Mr T had a fixed rate which expired in 2009. In August 2009, 
UCB wrote to Mr T. The letter said:
The benefit period of your mortgage deal is ending shortly and its important that you 
review your mortgage arrangements at this time.Id like to take this opportunity to 
explain the options available to you:
Option 1  consider changing to a new UCB Home Loans product
If you would like to talk to us about this option, please call the Retention Team on
Option 2  take no further action
Under the terms and conditions of your agreement, we will automatically charge the 
variable rate of interest with effect from the maturity date. 
On the other part of the account, the fixed rate expired in 2010, and UCB sent Mr T a letter 
in the same terms in July 2010.
Each year, Mr T was sent an annual statement setting out the interest rate applicable to his 
mortgage, and inviting him to get in touch if he wanted to review his mortgage and see what 
products might be available to him.
UCB has shown us the interest rates it had available from 2014 onwards. So Im satisfied 
there were rates available to Mr T. Indeed, I note that he took a new fixed rate earlier this 
year.
Ive looked through all the notes of contact between Mr T and UCB. Ive seen that there has 
been some contact between them over the years. But theres no mention in UCBs notes of 
discussions about interest rates.
Mr T says that he asked about new rates most years, but he was always told that there were 
no rates available to him. Theres no record of those discussions in UCBs notes. 
Mr T has a flexible mortgage, which allows him to make overpayments and borrowbacks. I 
can see he has made considerable use of those features over the years. 
I can see that Mr T has discussed these features with UCB too  there are records of those 
conversations. And while the interest rates available were lower than the variable rates Mr T 
was on over the years, they were only 1-2% lower. 
Im aware that human memory is fallible, and theres no documentary evidence to support Mr 
Ts recollection of repeatedly asking for rates. While I dont doubt the honesty of his 
recollection, it may be genuinely held but inaccurate. 
It may be, for example, that Mr T preferred to retain the flexible features of his existing 
mortgage agreement rather than fix a rate which would have restricted his ability to use them 
 and its the memory of those conversations which has now led him to believe that he 
wasnt eligible for rates at all. 
I can see that Mr T has discussed the features with UCB too  there are records of those 
conversations. And while the interest rates available were lower than the variable rates Mr T 
was on over the years, they were only 1-2% lower, so I think its likely that, if there were 
conversations about new interest rates as part of discussions about the flexible features, Mr 
T preferred to retain the full flexibility to make substantial overpayments and borrow them 
back rather than reduce his rate by a relatively small amount.
While UCBs rates are higher than those offered by some other lenders, UCB hasnt put any 
barriers in the way of Mr T moving his mortgage elsewhere if he wanted to take advantage of 
the lower rates other lenders offer.
Im satisfied that there have been new, lower, interest rates available to Mr T since 2014. 
And Im satisfied that UCB has not refused an application  because I dont think Mr T has made one. Im not therefore persuaded that Mr T has been treated unfairly, and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman