DRN-3255177
The complaint
Ms D complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc after arranging 
balance transfers from her credit card.
What happened
In mid-2021, Ms D took out a credit card with Santander, which offered a 0% balance 
transfer. Ms D arranged for £3,000 to be paid towards her credit card with another bank 
(M). Ms D wanted the transfer to clear her balance with bank M with the surplus returned to 
her current account. Ms Ds request was fulfilled but, a couple of weeks later, Ms D checked 
her credit card account with M and found £3,000 had been taken from it.
After she raised her concerns with M, she was told that the money had been recalled by 
Santander. Ms D contacted Santander several times to try to resolve the matter. Ms D says 
Santander asked her to provide a reference number for the transaction, but the other bank 
said they werent able to provide it as it didnt apply to that type of transaction. She says the 
Santander staff she spoke to acted unprofessionally and didnt seem able to deal with the 
matter. Ms D was worried that she appeared to owe £3,000 on her credit card with M in 
addition to the £3,000 owed on her Santander credit card. She was concerned about having 
to pay charges and fees on her account with M.  She was also unhappy that Santander 
hadnt written to her to let her know it was recalling the money it had sent to M. 
Ms D asked our service to raise a complaint against Santander on her behalf. Following this, 
Santander acknowledged it had recalled the £3,000 from M in error. It refunded the money 
back to her account with M and offered Ms D £150 to compensate her for distress and 
inconvenience. Ms D didnt accept Santanders offer as she didnt think this was enough to 
put things right. She asked our service to consider her complaint. 
A couple of weeks later, Ms D attempted another balance transfer from her Santander credit 
card. This was for £3,300 to a credit card with a different bank (N). This was carried out 
over the phone, but Santander called Ms D back shortly after and said it had made a 
mistake. Ms D says Santander told her it would need to recall the money and she would 
need to do the transfer again. Ms D raised a complaint about this second issue and 
Santander offered her £50 compensation the same day. Santander said its adviser had 
made an error. They shouldnt have processed the balance transfer for more than 95% of Ms 
Ds available credit limit but the adviser had quickly noticed their error and had taken action 
to start the process to reverse this. Ms D didnt accept Santanders offer of compensation 
and asked us to consider the matter along with her existing complaint.
Our investigator considered both complaints together. He acknowledged the frustration Ms D 
had experienced as a result of Santanders errors and poor service. But he thought its offers 
of compensation were reasonable. So, he didnt recommend that Santander do anything 
further.
Ms D disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt think the compensation Santander 
had offered was enough. She referred to information about distress and inconvenience on 
our website. Ms D said she hadnt received Santanders written response to her second 
complaint, despite emailing to chase for this. She sent a screenshot of her account with bank 
N to show the payment reversal happened ten days after Santanders error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Balance transfer to bank M
Ms D says she first became aware there was a problem on 13 August 2021 after checking 
her account with M online. Quite reasonably, Ms D initially queried the £3,000 that had been 
moved from her account with M. On 7 September, Ms D told our service that M had told her 
that the money had been removed from her account because of a request from Santander. 
But Santander didnt acknowledge it had made an error until around 23 September 2021. 
Ms D says Santanders customer service was poor. She says the Santander staff she spoke 
to over the phone didnt seem to understand the situation. Shes also raised concerns that 
Santander didnt inform her it was taking money from her account with M and it also hasnt 
explained why the mistake happened. 
Santander has acknowledged its responsible for the error. Im also persuaded that 
Santander could have resolved the matter more quickly and its communication with Ms D 
should have been better than it was.
Santander hasnt explained why it didnt contact Ms D before it took the money from her 
account with M. Nor has it detailed precisely how the error occurred. I appreciate this is 
frustrating for Ms D. But what Ive needed to think about is the impact of Santanders errors 
and poor service on Ms D as well as what its done to put things right.
Ms D feels strongly that Santanders offer of compensation isnt sufficient. Shes referred to 
information on our website about the range of awards we make for distress and 
inconvenience.
I appreciate that this was more than a small administrative error, because of the amount of 
money involved. I understand Ms D was worried that she might be placed in financial 
difficulty and she may have incurred interest and fees if the matter wasnt resolved quickly. It 
took Ms D a reasonable amount of time and effort to sort the matter out. But Ms D has 
confirmed that she didnt incur any financial loss as a result of Santanders actions and the 
matter was resolved about six weeks after she first noticed the error. 
The amount of compensation our service would typically award for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms D experienced falls in the range of £100 to £300. So, I think Santanders 
offer of £150 was reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset Ms D experienced for 
the issues relating to the balance transfer to M.
Balance transfer to bank NOn 4 October 2021, Ms D called our service and said shed attempted make a balance 
transfer (from her Santander credit card to bank N) over the phone that day. She said 
Santander called her back about ten minutes later and told her it had made a mistake. She 
said she was told that the money needed to be recalled. It would take four days for 
Santander to receive it back and it would then call her to do the transfer properly.
 
Santanders final response letter to her complaint about this issue is also dated 4 October 
2021. Ms D says she didnt receive this letter and has provided an email to show she chased 
for it on 18 October. But the letter refers to Ms D declining Santanders offer of £50 
compensation. So, Im satisfied that Ms D was made aware of the contents of the letter, 
even if she didnt receive it at the time.
Ms Ds credit card statement from Santander dated 7 October 2021 shows the balance 
transfer of £3,300 leaving Ms Ds account on 4 October and a credit of £285 being received 
back into the account on 5 October. So, Im also satisfied that Santander took steps to 
resolve the matter as quickly as it could.
Ms D has sent us evidence to show that the money wasnt removed from her account with N 
until 14 October 2021. She also says Santander incorrectly told her it would need to recall 
the entire £3,300 from N and shed need to complete the transfer again. Ms D says she only 
had a few weeks before her 0% interest deal with N ran out, so she took out a credit card 
with another bank.
It was no doubt frustrating for Ms D when Santander made a second error regarding her 
account so soon after resolving the first one. I appreciate Ms D was worried that the money 
wasnt moved out of her account with N straight away. And there appears to have been 
some confusion about how much money would be recalled from her account with N. I also 
understand that Ms D didnt want to wait for the matter to be resolved before taking out a 
credit card with another bank.
But again, theres no indication that Ms D incurred any financial loss as a result of 
Santanders error. Im satisfied that Santander took steps to put things right straight away 
and the matter was fully resolved within ten days of the error occurring. So, I dont think this 
issue had as great an impact on Ms D as the first one did. Our service would typically say an 
apology or a small monetary award of less than £100 is sufficient compensation. So again, I 
think Santanders offer of £50 for distress and inconvenience is reasonable. 
Putting things right
Santander should pay Ms D the £200 its offered her if she accepts my decision.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman