DRN-2607958
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded him the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr M was tricked into sending a fraudster a faster payment of £550 on 16 April 2020.
He thought he was buying a used iPhone 11 Pro Max mobile phone hed found 
advertised for sale on a social media marketplace. 
The fraudster and Mr M exchanged messages, which included pictures from the 
fraudster showing the phone in hand. Mr M was unable to collect the phone in person 
due to restrictions on travel as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So it was agreed 
that the fraudster would send the phone to him instead.
By 20 April 2020, Mr M hadnt received anything. The fraudster stopped responding 
to his messages asking for parcel tracking details and blocked further contact. Mr M 
contacted Starling Bank to report what had happened. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the 
Code). This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider 
whether the customer:
  ignored an effective warning
 made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for legitimate 
purposes; or 
 has been grossly negligent.
On 7 May 2020 Starling issued its final response to Mr Ms complaint. It explained it was 
unable to refund him. It said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and felt 
Mr M did not make sufficient checks before making the payment.
Starling had contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money Mr M paid. But no 
funds remained in the recipient account.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Starlings decision. 
He explained that he wasnt sure what else he could have done and felt it wasnt right for 
Starling to shift the blame onto him. 
Our investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. He found 
Mr M had met his requisite level of care under the CRM. In summary, he said:
Starling hadnt said Mr M had ignored effective warnings. He didnt think Starling had 
been able to establish that Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment was legitimate or that Mr M had been grossly negligent. He thought it was 
reasonable in the circumstances for Mr M to think he was buying genuine goods from 
a legitimate seller. 
He didnt think there was anything about the messages Mr M exchanged with the 
fraudster that should have made him suspicious. 
He noted what Mr M had said about purchasing other items from the marketplace in 
the past without any problems. The advertisement and communication exchanged 
seemed usual. Mr M had no reason to think this seller would not keep to their side of 
the bargain.
He didnt think the agreed price was out of line with the typical cost of this make and 
model of used phone. He noted what Mr M said about seeing it advertised by other 
sellers at a similar price. He didnt think a degree of negotiation about price was 
unusual in a second hand marketplace. 
He said Starling ought to have fully reimbursed Mr M at the time he made his claim. He 
recommended that Starling should refund his loss in order to settle the complaint together 
with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim 
to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 27 November 2020 with a deadline 
for responding of 11 December 2020. That deadline has passed and, over two months later, 
the bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Starling to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Starlings failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified Starling of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr M to have received a full 
refund at the time.
Mr M explained that at the time of the scam he was a university student and was buying the 
phone to use with his studies in digital marketing. He described being scammed as one of 
the worst experiences hes had and has explained that £550 was a lot of money for him to 
lose. Although most of Mr Ms distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal 
acts of the fraudster, I think Starling could have done more to protect him from the impact of 
this given its obligations under the CRM and its statutory duty to co-operate with our 
complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider £150 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. 
Im aware that compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of 
discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Starling Bank 
Limited to pay him:
All of the money he lost  £550  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Starling declined Mr Ms claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement; and
£150 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited and direct it to pay the redress Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman