DRN-2794973
The complaint
Mr O complains that he isnt responsible for his debt with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
Mr O opened a credit card account with Virgin in September 2016 with a limit of £6000. He 
transferred a debt to it on an interest free offer. In March 2017 he missed a payment. Interest 
started to be applied. In November 2019, he stopped the direct debit for payments. In 
September 2020, the debt was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA) with the balance 
£5672.03.
Mr O complained that he wasnt aware of the debt as hed asked for paper statements on the 
phone - and these hadnt arrived. He wasnt computer literate so couldnt access the online 
statements. He wasnt aware the debt was to be passed to a DCA. He disputed the debt was 
as much as £5672.03  as hed made total payments of £5894.18 up to November 2019. He 
wanted a refund of all fees and interest paid. He said he wasnt aware the debt was to be 
sold to a DCA.
Virgin said online statements were automatically set up when the account was opened. And, 
monthly emails had been sent to Mr O to say they were available to view. They found no 
evidence to say Mr O had asked for paper statements. He had been sent various letters to 
make him aware of the position on his account. A Notice of Default was sent in June 2020, 
with the arrears at £789.01, due by 16 July 2020. Mr O cancelled his direct debit in 
November 2019, so his account fell into arrears. Their terms and conditions included their 
right to sell the debt to a DCA.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Mr O was made aware that 
statements would be online versions when the account was opened. Virgin had no record of 
any requests for paper statements. A monthly email was sent to the email address shown in 
Mr Os application  to say they were available to look at. Interest was applied to Mr Os 
account from March 2017 because he missed the payment in that month. And Virgin sent Mr 
O three missed payment letters in March 2017, August 2017 and February 2018  so he 
shouldve been aware something was wrong then. On the sale of the debt to a DCA, this 
was contained in Virgins terms and conditions. Overall, he said that Virgin had acted 
reasonably.
Mr O asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says he cant be held responsible for the debt - as he didnt know what was going on 
because Virgin didnt send him paper statements, as hed asked for. He didnt see the 
electronic versions as he wasnt computer literate. The interest and fees applied werent 
therefore fair. He told us he cant understand how the debt is so high  when hed made 
monthly payments totalling £5894.18 since the account was opened in 2016 up to November 
2019. He says it was unfair to sell his debt to a DCA without any notice or communication.
The key issues here are:
Should Mr O have been aware of the balance of his account?
Was the balance of the debt correct?
 Could Virgin sell his debt to a DCA?
Balance of Account - Statements
Its correct that online statements were part of the account opening process in 2017  Ive 
seen that on Mr Os application. So, he should have been aware of that. Ive also seen that 
he was sent monthly emails from then until September 2020 (when the debt was sold) to say 
his statements were available to look at online. And Virgin have shown proof the emails were 
delivered. They cant say whether the statements were opened however. 
Mr O says he called Virgin many times to ask for a paper statement, but they didnt arrive. 
Ive seen that Virgin have no record of such calls. Ive listened to Mr Os call in January 2020 
and on that he says hes asked for a statement in November 2019. Ive listened to Mr Os 
call made in November 2019  and there wasnt a request for paper statements. Thats the 
only call Virgin have a record of in that month. Two other calls  in January 2020 - do not ask 
for statements. Mr Os wife called in January 2020 and February 2020  Ive also listened to 
these calls and she simply makes two payments of £75 and £90.
On the call on 16 January 2020  Mr O was advised that his balance then was £5238.7  
and then he agreed to pay £267.46 by 20 January 2020  but he didnt.
Mr O says he stopped his direct debit in November 2019  because he wasnt getting 
statements. But that just had the effect of making the account go into arrears and increasing 
the interest being applied.
Ive seen that Virgin sent Mr O several letters  to his home address  during the period  on 
17 March 2017, 17 August 2017 and 18 February 2018. These told him about late payments 
and that fees were being charged as a result  so he couldve then realised there was a 
problem and acted.
In March 2020, Virgin sent him a letter to recommend he increase his repayments  because 
interest and fees were more than his repayments. Later, Mr O was sent a Notice of Default 
in June 2020  showing the arrears of £789. So again, he should have been aware of his 
situation then. 
So  overall, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr O shouldve been aware of his debt 
to Virgin over the period. 
Amount of Debt
Ive seen Mr Os statements, and a list of all the payments made since the account was 
opened. This has also been sent to him by our service. Virgin have recorded all the 
payments Mr O made. The problem may have arisen because Mr O wasnt taking into 
account the interest and fees being applied to the account. Because he missed a payment in 
March 2017  interest started then. Virgins terms and conditions enable them to do this as 
they say: We may offer you promotions. If we offer a promotion, we will tell you the 
promotional rate and any fees, how long the offer period lasts for and any other information relevant at the time. If you have a promotional rate on your account, this will be shown on 
your statement in the tables above. If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when it is 
due or you go over your credit limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the 
start of that statement period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge the 
current standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
And  when he stopped his direct debit in November 2019  that meant that interest also 
increased as the debt increased because payments were missed. So, I can see that the 
amount of the debt owed when the debt was passed to the DCA (£5672.03) was correct.
Transfer of debt to a DCA
I agree with our investigator  that Virgins terms and conditions give them the right to pass 
Mr Os debt to a DCA for collection. They say: .. Can this agreement be transferred?
We may transfer any, or all, of our rights and obligations under this agreement to any
other person or business. If the arrangements for servicing your account will not change as a
result, we may do this without notice. If they do change we will tell you. We may also arrange
for any other person or business to carry out our obligations under the agreement. Your
rights will not be affected. This added to the extent of the arrears of £789.01 (in June 2020) 
means that it was reasonable for Virgin to transfer the debt to a DCA.
So, and I can see that Mr O will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Virgin 
to do anymore here. Mr O should now contact and engage with the DCA to agree how to 
repay his debt.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman