DRN-4096044
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc took too long to return surplus funds to 
him after it took possession and sold his property. He asks that RBS pays the funds to him 
with compound interest at 8% and pays compensation for the distress caused.
What happened
RBS took possession and sold Mr Bs property in 2006. 
Mr B was contacted in December 2021 by a third party who told him he had unclaimed 
proceeds from the sale of the property. He says this is the first time he knew there were 
surplus funds. He says he had other accounts with RBS and it could have contacted him 
sooner. Mr B says he was in financial difficulty in 2006 and these funds would have made his 
situation easier. He says he feels like a victim of crime.
Mr B contacted RBS, which told him it had limited information about what happened in 2006 
due to the amount of time passed. It said the surplus funds from the sale were about £6,000. 
It used these funds to pay off Mr Bs outstanding loan and overdraft. Mr B says there was 
about £600 remaining after this. RBS cant now explain what happened to this money.
Mr B says his loan and overdraft were not secured on the property and RBS wasnt entitled 
to use the funds to repay them. Mr B says RBS took too long to explain what had happened 
to the funds after he contacted it. And he wants to know how the third party got information 
about him and whether theres been a data breach. 
Our investigator said 
RBS was entitled to apply its right of set off and use the funds to repay debts owed by 
Mr B. 
RBS should pay Mr B the remaining surplus funds that it cant account for, plus interest 
at 8% simple from the date of the sale of the property.
It was unclear how the third party had Mr Bs details. Mr B could contact ICO if he was 
concerned about this.
RBS cant show it contacted Mr B at the time to explain what had happened to the funds. 
It should pay £150 for the confusion and distress this caused.
RBS agreed. Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS says the information it can provide about this matter is limited, due to the time passed. I 
should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
RBS used the proceeds from the sale of the property to repay the mortgage loan and related 
costs (such as legal fees and estate agent fees). This left about £6,000 which RBS used to 
repay a personal loan and overdraft owed by Mr B. It says all of these accounts were with its 
recoveries team at the time.
Mr B disputes that RBS had the right to repay the unsecured debts from the sales proceeds 
without his consent. Banks do have a general right to set off money in this way. And, based 
on the available evidence, I dont think it was unfair for RBS to do so here. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay these funds to Mr B now, given they 
were used to repay debts he owed.
RBS should fairly have told Mr B in 2006 what had happened with the sale of his property 
and how the sale proceeds were used. It cant now provide evidence that it did  or that it 
made reasonable efforts to do so. And RBS cant now explain what happened to the 
remaining funds, of about £600. 
Mr B is upset about the amount of time it took RBS to explain what had happened to the 
surplus funds when he contacted it in late 2021. I think that isnt unreasonable given the 
amount of time that has passed since 2006.
Mr B told us that he was in financial difficulty in 2006 and receiving funds of about £6,000 
would have helped his situation. But, as I said, I dont think RBS was unfair or made an error 
when it used most of these funds to repay Mr Bs other debts. This left about £600. Mr B was 
in financial difficulties, he had his house taken into possession and owed other debts. I think 
its unlikely that returning the £600 to him in 2006 would have had an impact on his situation 
such as to make it fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay substantial compensation for 
not contacting him about this at the time.
RBS agreed to pay Mr B the funds it cant account for (about £600) plus interest at 8% 
simple from completion of the sale of the property. RBS also agreed to pay £150 
compensation for the confusion and distress caused by not contacting Mr B in 2006. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its unclear how the third party had Mr Bs details. Mr B might want to ask the third party 
about this. I dont think I can fairly find that this was the result of a data breach by RBS 
without some evidence that this was the case. Mr B can of course contact ICO if he remains 
concerned about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr B the remaining funds it cant account for (of £625.74) plus interest at 8% simple 
from the date the sale of the property completed to the date of payment.
pay £150 compensation to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman