DRN-3851660
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax handled her claim for a 
refund of a payment made using her debit card.
What happened
Miss M purchased three flight tickets for herself and two friends in February 2022 using her 
Halifax debit card. The flights were from the Ukraine to the UK, via Malta, and were bought 
through an online travel agent, who Ill refer to as K. 
Upon arrival at the airport, Miss M says they werent able to check-in as they couldnt show 
proof of address in Malta for a 10-day quarantine. Miss M said she explained that the tickets 
she bought were to the UK, and they were only transiting in Malta with a connecting flight to 
the UK. Therefore, they werent required to quarantine in Malta. However, they were 
ultimately refused check-in and their tickets were cancelled. Miss M said this was despite her 
having all the necessary COVID-19 documentation.
Miss M said she tried to contact K at the airport but struggled to get through. She says she 
had no choice but to buy tickets with another airline, which were difficult to find at the time. 
Unhappy with matters, Miss M raised a chargeback dispute with Halifax in May 2022. Then 
she registered her complaint with this service.
Halifax raised the chargeback in June 2022. It also issued a final response letter (FRL) to 
Miss M some weeks afterwards explaining that a chargeback had been raised and 
apologising for the delay in doing so. In July 2022, Halifax wrote to Miss M explaining that it 
was unable to continue with matters and that if she didnt respond within ten days, it would 
close her dispute. Halifax then appears to have issued a follow-up FRL in September 2022 
outlining mostly the same information as the first FRL.
One of our investigators here reviewed what had happened. She acknowledged there was a 
delay in Halifax raising the chargeback, but it was still done within the required timeframe. 
She noted that K provided sufficient evidence to show that the services were still available to 
Miss M, and as such the dispute was declined. Ultimately, she couldnt see that there were 
grounds for a successful chargeback.
Halifax didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Miss M did. In summary, she provided 
information which showed K had made an error when initially booking the tickets. Miss M 
also said Halifax didnt keep her updated with the claim, nor was she given sufficient 
opportunity to make representations. She said the only letter she received from Halifax in 
relation to her dispute was the FRL from June 2022. 
Ultimately, an agreement hasnt been reached. So, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a customer paid for services using either a debit or a credit card, they can ask their card 
issuer to dispute the payment made for the service using that card. This process is referred 
to as a chargeback and is governed by the relevant card scheme. In this case, Halifax has 
said the relevant card scheme here is Visa. Its important to note that there is no right to a 
chargeback. And, similarly, there is no obligation on a bank to attempt a chargeback if a 
customer asks it to. That being said, Id expect a bank to attempt a chargeback as a matter 
of good industry practice where chargeback rights exist, and the dispute has a reasonable 
prospect of success.
The time limits for submitting a chargeback are set by the relevant card scheme and must be 
strictly adhered to. Whilst there was a delay in Halifax initially raising the dispute, it still did 
so within the relevant timescales, and I cant see that Miss M was impacted by the initial 
delay. I also note that Halifax apologised for the delay, which Id expect it to do.
When Halifax raised the chargeback, it was defended by the merchant. Whilst Halifax didnt 
need to take matters further, here, it took the step to proceed to the next stage, known as 
pre-arbitration. It did this because it wasnt satisfied that the merchant had done enough to 
sufficiently show that the service Ms M paid for had been received. When Halifax presented 
the claim again, the merchant however did provide enough information to persuade Halifax 
that the service would have been available to Miss M, had she provided the correct 
documents. 
Here, Halifax decided not to move forward with the dispute. Based on the information it had 
seen at the time, I dont think that was an unreasonable decision for it to have made. 
In response to our investigators view, Miss M provided an email from K where it outlined it 
had made a mistake with the tickets it bought. This service asked Halifax whether this 
information would have changed matters, but Halifax said its unlikely that it would have 
made a difference to the outcome here. And in any case, on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Halifax saw the document at the time of the dispute. So, even if it would have made a 
difference, Im not persuaded that Halifax was aware of it and it therefore couldnt have 
taken this into account at the time.
Ive also considered that Miss M says Halifax didnt give her the opportunity to submit any 
evidence in support of the dispute and that she only received the FRL from June 2022 and 
no further updates. However, Halifax emailed Miss M in July 2022 to let her know the dispute 
had been unsuccessful and she had ten days to respond and provide any further information 
she wanted to. So, I think Halifax gave her sufficient opportunity to make representations. 
Therefore, even if K may have made a mistake, Im not persuaded it makes a difference 
here.
Overall, whilst I empathise with Miss Ms situation, I dont think Halifax has treated her 
unfairly. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Hana YousefOmbudsman