DRN-3489899
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision not to pay his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr A has income protection insurance with Unum. In February 2020, he became too unwell 
to work, owing to an eye condition causing metamorphopsia in his left eye. Mr A was first 
diagnosed with the condition in December 2018 but was still able to work up until that time. 
Mr A said that by February 2020, his vision problems became so bad he was no longer able 
to fulfil the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation. Mr A works in IT and 
spends a considerable amount of time using a computer. 
Unum declined Mr As claim saying that his condition remained largely unchanged from 2018 
and noted that he was able to effectively do his job during that time. Unum said that Mr As 
employer noted there were no issues with his performance and that he would likely benefit 
from reasonable adjustments such as wearing an eye patch over his left eye and working his 
contracted hours. 
Our investigator thought Unum had acted fairly in declining Mr As claim because there 
wasnt enough persuasive medical evidence that suggested he was unable to work at a 
computer. He acknowledged the specialists reports but highlighted these didnt evidence a 
condition significant enough to support that Mr A was incapacitated to a degree that would 
preclude him from work. 
Mr A disagreed with these findings and in summary said;
The medical evidence hed provided had been ignored. In particular, the specialist 
reports and the FIT notes provided by his GP saying he was too unwell to work owing 
to his eye condition;
Hes already tried reasonable adjustments such as a rising desk and a larger monitor 
and that these have proved ineffective;
Hes unsure how he couldve engaged with his employer about reasonable 
adjustments over the COVID-19 pandemic as his office was closed.
Mr A highlighted the specialists report that recommended he be considered for a different 
role within his organisation, one which doesnt require the use of a computer, or any other 
equipment which would be unsuitable with his eye condition. And so, its for me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because I find that Unum has acted 
fairly by complying with its policy terms. Further, theres not enough persuasive medical 
evidence to suggest that Mr A was suffering from a medical condition severe enough that 
would preclude him from working during the deferred period as required by his policy. Ill 
explain why.
It's not in dispute that Mr A has an eye condition. Ive considered all the specialists notes 
and Im satisfied he suffers with distorted vision caused by macular scarring. But that alone 
is not proof that Mr A is unable to work. Nor, to be clear, are the FIT notes from Mr As GP 
signing him off sick from work. Unums policy says;
Benefit is paid when a member is incapacitated, was actively working on the day
immediately prior to the start of the incapacity, and evidence has been provided to
Unum which satisfies Unum of the incapacity. Payment of benefit will begin on the
first day after the end of the deferred period and will continue to be paid for the
duration of the incapacity, as long as the individual in respect of whom benefit is paid
remains a member under this policy
As long as the member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period Unum will
consider the deferred period to be served where the incapacitated member is
working for his employer either;
(a) in another occupation, or
(b) in his insured occupation on a reduced or part time basis.
And when describing incapacity, the policy further says;
Benefit is paid when a member is incapacitated, was actively working on the day
immediately prior to the start of the incapacity, and evidence has been provided to
Unum which satisfies Unum of the incapacity. Payment of benefit will begin on the
first day after the end of the deferred period and will continue to be paid for the
duration of the incapacity, as long as the individual in respect of whom benefit is paid
remains a member under this policy
Where the insured occupation includes working in excess of 48 hours per week, an
incapacitated member will be considered able to perform that requirement if they are
working, or have the capacity to work, 48hours per week.
Ive highlighted this because its important to note that Mr A must satisfy Unum that he is 
incapacitated, rather than the specialists involved with his care alone. Unum is entitled to 
query Mr As condition and test the medical evidence in such a way that it can satisfy itself 
that Mr A meets the policy terms. And so, Unum hasnt done anything wrong by challenging 
Mr As testimony and scrutinising the evidence hes put forward. Its also able to reach its 
own findings based on the information Mr As put forward, provided its within the scope of 
fairness. 
Ive carefully considered Unums interpretation of the medical evidence and Im satisfied it 
reached a fair outcome. I say that because theres no persuasive medical evidence that says 
Mr A cannot use a computer. The specialists comments on this point were;
In respect of whether Mr A should be able to cope or not to use a computer for an average 
of 7.5 hours per day I find this hugely variable amongst individuals and I cannot make any 
objective comment
Instead, the specialist recommended that Mr A engage with his employer about reasonable 
adjustments that can be made to his workstation set up and that he only work his contracted 
hours. Mr A had previously mentioned that he was working hours in excess of his contract. I 
think Unum relied on these comments fairly as theres no medical evidence that persuasively 
concludes that Mr A cannot work on a computer. In addition, I find it fair that Mr A must try the recommended reasonable adjustments as this 
too forms part of Unums policy terms. I note that Mr A said hed already attempted this, but 
his employer disagreed. Ive also not seen any evidence that persuades me Mr A has either. 
I acknowledge the email Mr A sent in from a colleague to challenge this, but I think its 
reasonable to expect that all reasonable adjustments would be formally logged with his 
employer and progress, or lack therefore, documented. As this hasnt happened, I cannot 
reasonably say that Unums suggestion is unfair. 
It's clear there are some minor changes to Mr As overall eye health between 2018  2021 
although they arent considered to be major. Unum highlighted that Mr A was able to perform 
well from when his condition was first diagnosed, until he was signed off work by his GP. 
Unums argument, in summary, is that he was able to work well during this time and with 
very minor progression of his condition and nothing from a specialist to say that intervention 
was needed, so it thinks its right to decline his claim. I find its position reasonable given the 
lack of persuasive medical evidence provided by Mr A. I should also say that all evidence 
provided by Mr A has been considered and that simply because Ive not agreed with him, 
doesnt mean its been ignored. 
I know Mr A provided eye scans and his own narrative alongside that evidence, but the issue 
I have is that this doesnt appear to necessarily reflect the professional opinions of either his 
own specialists, or Unums. Its clear Mr A has a condition but theres not enough persuasive 
evidence to say he cannot use a computer, especially with reasonable adjustments. And so, 
its for these reasons I think Unum has declined his claim fairly. Mr A must re-engage with 
his employer and attempt to implement the reasonable adjustments suggested by it and the 
specialists involved with his care. Should he do this and the reasonable adjustments be 
unsuccessful, then he and his employer could potentially as Unum to reconsider the claim. 
But he must exhaust the reasonable adjustments options before this can happen.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman