DRN-2743770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society required a physical valuation of 
their property when they applied for a further advance on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Nationwide and wanted a further advance of just less 
than £20,000.  Nationwide required an on-site valuation. Mr and Mrs M thought this 
unnecessary and the property had been valued by a local estate agent during the year and 
had a higher value on a Nationwide desktop valuation. Mr and Mrs H cannot understand why 
such a valuation was necessary. Nationwide said that from July 2020 it changed its policy 
now requiring physical valuations on additional borrowing applications. Our investigators 
view was that as Nationwide was acting within its policy, it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr 
and Mrs M disagreed saying in summary that there is a question as to whether Nationwide 
acted with honesty and integrity
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M applied for a further advance and Nationwide required a physical valuation of 
the property which Mr and Mrs M object to. A valuation and the type of valuation is part of 
how a lender assesses its risk when lending. In this case the valuation wasnt to assist the 
borrower in the purchase of a property but for the lenders purposes only. 
How that valuation is carried out is a matter for the lender to decide. For the borrowers, it 
forms part of the loan package which they can accept or not. But its the lender thats risking 
a loss on its capital and is entitled to decide how the security for that risk is assessed. A 
physical valuation is a common form of valuation and I dont consider that this was an 
unreasonable request by Nationwide. Its policy on how it conducts valuations and whether 
those should be desktop or on site is in my view entirely a matter for Nationwide and, so, I 
cant reasonably require it to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs M. If Mr and Mrs M 
were unhappy with how Nationwide proposed to assess its risk, they had the option of not 
proceeding with the additional borrowing. 
 
There is a separate issue as to whether the valuation would have posed any danger to Mr 
and Mrs M during the pandemic. I note that after an initial period, during the pandemic, 
physical valuations were able to go ahead in a Covid safe manner and that seems to have 
happened in this case. Mr and Mrs M also complain that they couldnt speak directly with 
anyone who made the decision about valuations. As this is a policy issue, I dont accept that 
it was reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs M should have had access to Nationwides 
policy making team. In Nationwides terms they werent customer facing and I dont consider 
that it was a reasonable expectation from Mr and Mrs M that they would have access to that 
team. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman