DRN-2764146
The complaint
 Mrs D complains on behalf of her company R that TSB Bank plc (TSB) rejected an 
international payment made by a client to her business account which caused financial loss, 
inconvenience, and damage to the business relationship with the client.  
What happened
 On 16 January 2020 a client of Mrs Ds business R made a payment into her business 
account for £250.00. This payment did not appear in the account when it should have, and 
Mrs D contacted the client who confirmed the payment details. This client had previously 
made payments into the account which have been successful, so it was unclear why this 
payment had not come through.
There had been a previous incident with the same client in 2018, in which funds were 
returned to the client as TSB believed that the account details on the payment didnt match 
Mrs Ds account. Following that incident and the investigation, TSB accepted that they 
shouldnt have rejected the payment. They made a financial loss and compensation payment 
totalling £846.34 to Mrs D.  
On 6 May 2020 Mrs D contacted TSB regard the missing payment. 
On 11 May 2020 TSB sent a final response. They concluded that there was no evidence of a 
bank error as they hadnt blocked any payments coming in. They advised Mrs D that they 
have no control over incoming payments, and that the error would need to be raised with the 
bank making the payment. 
Mrs D was unhappy with the banks response and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint. As part of that investigation, after some 
delay, TSB provided us with the account notes for Rs business account in January 2021. 
The notes show that on 20 January 2020 there was a payment of £250 returned to the 
clients account from Rs account as the name of the intended beneficiary did not match the 
name on Rs account. Payments were also rejected in March and July 2020 for the same 
reason. Other correct payments had gone through.
Our investigator thought that TSB had done nothing wrong in rejecting the payment, as the 
business account name didnt match, and it is the customers responsibility to ensure that 
they provide the correct account details for payments to be made. However, she did think 
that TSB could have provided this information to Mrs D sooner which would have helped 
resolve matters. 
As a result, our investigator thought that although R should not be reimbursed for the 
missing finds as they were rejected correctly, but they should be awarded £475. This was 
£225 for the business time spent chasing TSB, and £250 for the inconvenience caused, the 
delay in TSB recognising what had happened, and the impact on the relationship between R 
and their customer.  
Mrs D accepted this outcome, but TSB disagreed with our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision which is why it has come to me to review. 
I wrote to Mrs D and TSB with some initial thoughts about this case on 20 May 2021. 
Although I agreed that an award was appropriate, I thought that a total award of £200 was 
sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs D responded. In summary, 
she told me that the facts show that the payment was rejected by the bank and that she was 
not notified of this despite making enquiries until several months afterwards when she had 
complained to us. The client has denied receiving the funds back, and the delay in getting 
the correct information has now made it very difficult to raise this with the client.  I have 
considered these points and I have finalised my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information that has been provided that TSBs decision to reject the 
payment was correct. The account name used by the client when making the payment was 
different to Rs business account name. In that situation, in line with their money laundering 
and fraud procedures, TSB were right to reject the payment.  
If this had been communicated to Mrs D at the time, there would have been inevitably some 
communication between her, the bank and the client to sort this out, so this would have cost 
R some time in any event.  
However, TSB didnt provide the right information when Mrs D first raised the issue about 
payment in May 2020. If they had, it would have enabled Mrs D to approach her client at the 
time, with accurate information about when the payment was rejected, which would likely 
have resulted in the payment to being located and sent back. Mrs D has acknowledged in 
her response to me that this would have been easier at the time.
In their initial response to Mrs D, TSB simply said they had no control over incoming 
payments and referred Mrs D to her client to establish what had happened. Mrs D did raise 
this with her client but tells us that this was detrimental to the business relationship, as 
relying on the incorrect information provided by TSB that no payment had been rejected, she 
was querying her clients integrity by suggesting that he had not made payment. Her client 
has denied receiving the payment back. 
The account notes that TSB have sent us now clearly show a rejected payment on 20 
January 2020 for that client, and so despite being aware of the rejected payment, they failed 
to provide this information at the first opportunity, and delayed the issue being resolved.
I appreciate Mrs D feels unable to go back to her client after such a long period as it is 
embarrassing. But this option is still open to her, and I dont think I can fairly ask TSB to pay 
what is really the clients business debt because Mrs D feels unable to pursue it. TSB have 
now confirmed that the payment was sent back and would be able to provide evidence and 
details of this which would help the client locate it.  
Mrs D has told me that there has been a financial impact to her business because of the 
time spent dealing with this issue. The correctly rejected payment would have generated 
some additional work for R in any event and so I have only considered the additional 
inconvenience caused by TSBs poor customer service. Overall, I think £200 is fair 
compensation to put things right.   I realise that this is not the decision that Mrs D had hoped for, but I hope that my reasons 
give her a clear picture of why I have made this award.
 
My final decision
My decision is that TSB Bank plc should make a payment of £200 to R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman