DRN-3003653
The complaint
Mrs B says 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Mrs B took out an 18-month guarantor loan from 1Plus1 Loans for £2,000 on 3 June 2018. 
The monthly repayments were £149.45 and the total amount repayable was £2,690.10. It 
was given on the basis that Mrs B had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying 
the loan if she failed to.
Mrs B says she struggled to make the repayments as she had several other payday loans 
and debts. She says if the lender had done proper checks it would have known this and not 
approved the loan. She was in a desperate financial situation and ended up having to take 
out more loans to repay her debts.
The investigator said Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders checks did 
not go far enough and proportionate checks would have shown it was likely the loan would 
not be sustainable affordable for Mrs B.
1Plus1 Loans disagreed. It said it expected the investigator to have carried out her own 
assessment as to whether the loan was affordable and asked to see these calculations. Our 
investigator explained her assessment was based on the finding that better checks would 
have shown there were indications that the loan would not be sustainably affordable, rather 
than the results of a pounds and pence affordability calculation. Unhappy with this response 
1Plus1 Loans asked for an ombudsmans review so the case was passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Mrs B. 
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 1Plus1 
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, 1Plus1 Loans was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs B could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 1Plus1 Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs 
B. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs B, and have considered the following questions:
did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Bs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
did 1Plus1 Loans make a fair lending decision?
did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mrs B before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of her income, and verified this, and her monthly living costs which it validated 
against national statistics. It checked her credit file to understand her credit history and 
current monthly repayments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt 
consolidation. From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded Mrs B had monthly 
disposable income of £511 and so the loan was affordable.
I am not persuaded 1Plus1 Loans checks were proportionate. Its initial checks were 
reasonable, but I think after the results of the credit check it ought to have completed a fuller 
financial review. I say this as it showed Mrs B had defaulted on five accounts. Whilst the 
majority were historic and might in some circumstances therefore be discounted, one was as 
recent as October 2014, and it was the second current account Mrs B had defaulted on.  
There are notes on the check saying the older loan defaults had been settled with the sale of 
a property, but I cant see the lender verified this. I will return to this point later. But overall, I 
think 1Plus1 Loans should have carried out further checks based on the information it 
gathered.
So I have looked at what fuller checks would most likely have shown. Mrs B has supplied 
extracts of her full credit file to allow me to do this  Im not saying this is what the lender 
needed to check but its one way for me to get a fuller understanding of her financial 
circumstances at that time  and to see what 1Plus1 Loan would most likely have learnt from 
proportionate checks. These show at the time of her loan application Mrs B had at least 
three active payday loans, a revolving line of high cost credit and she was making payments 
to two debt collections agencies - indicating in the round that her finances were under pressure. So I think its most likely better checks would have showed the lender Mrs B was 
having problems managing her money - and that not all her historic defaults were settled. I 
note this loan was to repay another in part, but this would not reduce or repay any of the 
short-term high-cost debt I have listed above. I think it was likely Mrs B was in a harmful 
cycle of borrowing to repay. 
1Plus1 Loans asked for a copy of the investigators affordability calculations. But that is not 
how this complaint has been assessed. 1Plus1 Loans regulatory obligations meant it 
needed to consider not just the pounds and pence affordability, but the sustainability of the 
repayments. So, whether the applicant is likely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing to repay. This is set out in CONC 5.3.1(G) which, amongst other things, stated:
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
And in the circumstances of this case I think better checks would have shown this to be 
unlikely. Equally had the lender been aware of the level of Mrs Bs high-cost borrowing I 
think it would have doubted its calculation that she had £511 of disposable income each 
month.
It follows I think 1Plus1 Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mrs B.
I have not found evidence that the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
 Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mrs B made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Bs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding 1Plus1 Loans
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 Loans should
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman