DRN-3311801
The complaint
Mr S complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr S held a gadget insurance policy with D & G that covered several devices. His device 
developed a fault and on the first occasion D & G replaced a memory circuit. A few months 
later, the device developed another fault, and, on that occasion, D & G replaced the hard 
drive disk. The engineers noted that potentially there could be an issue with the battery, but 
the device was returned to Mr S and he used it until another fault developed. 
Mr S made a further claim for the new fault and D & G sent the device for examination. But 
the fault was diagnosed as being to do with the external battery and D & G said that this 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr S raised a complaint as he felt that the new repair should be covered as the previous two 
repairs were for a similar fault. D & G advised Mr S that it was possible that the two other 
repairs should not have been completed if they were related to the battery. Mr S did not 
agree and further complained, as he said that he had been told by D & G (at the point of 
sale) that everything would be covered under the policy. He also said that D & G had held 
onto his laptop for an unreasonably long period.
In its final response, D & G confirmed that Mr S had previously sent in his device for repairs 
that had been related to the battery. On two occasions, repairs were completed. But it said 
that it had made an error in booking in repairs that were not covered by the policy. And for 
the error of doing this, it offered £10 compensation. Mr S was also given his referral rights 
and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His 
view was that D & G had complied with the policy terms and conditions by declining to repair 
the device, as repairs to the battery werent covered. He concluded that the mis- sale, that is 
that Mr S believed that he was told that all repairs would be covered, should be raised as a 
separate complaint. Finally, he said that D & G hadnt held onto Mr S device for an 
unreasonable period. Consequently, he couldnt agree that D & G had been unreasonable to 
decline the claim. 
D & G agreed with the view, Mr S did not. Mr S believed that the mis-sale should be 
addressed as it was the same business who had given him the incorrect advice. Ultimately, 
our investigator did investigate the mis-sale. He said that he had listened to the original sales 
call and although D & G didnt mention every exclusion, it did mention the main ones. He 
confirmed that D & G had sent out the policy details to Mr S and he was satisfied that Mr S 
was aware of the policy terms, as he had previously been able to make claims. So, he didnt 
think D & G had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree as he believed he was mis-sold the policy, so asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are whether D & G were fair in coming to the decision it 
did and whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr S.  When considering this complaint, I have 
looked at the timeline, the terms and conditions of the policy and information provided by Mr 
S. 
Mr S held a gadget insurance policy with D & G, that covered several devices. I have 
considered the policy terms and conditions and what is covered and not covered under the 
policy. From what I have read, repairs are provided on an unlimited repair or replacement 
basis for devices that are either accidentally damaged or broken down. The policy 
exclusions are found on page 5 of a 10-page document, under the heading of what is not 
covered. It confirms that the replacement of any consumables e.g. fuses or batteries are 
not covered. 
Mr S device developed faults, the first two faults were repaired, and the device was returned 
to Mr S. On the final occasion, when Mr S made a claim for a new fault, D & G declined to 
repair the device as it had diagnosed the fault to be related to the external battery. Having 
reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, Im satisfied that a consumable, such as a 
battery is not covered under the policy. And as such Im satisfied that D & G were fair to 
decline the claim. 
I understand that Mr S said that the previous two repairs were for similar faults. But having 
reviewed the repair notes, these confirm that the faults were repaired with parts replaced. D 
& G said that when a customer reports a fault, they are doing so to an agent who isnt an 
engineer. The engineer will then diagnose the issue with the device. In this case, the 
engineer initially replaced a memory circuit and the device worked for several months.
During the second repair, the engineer replaced the hard disk drive and it was noted that 
there could potentially be an issue with the battery. But despite this, the repair was 
completed. By the time the third claim was made the engineers diagnosed the issue with the 
external battery and declined the claim. 
Although Mr S believes that the repairs were all similar, the third repair was confirmed by D 
& G to be a faulty battery and the terms and conditions of the policy, exclude its cover.  So, I 
cant agree that D & G were unfair to decline the claim. 
I have next considered whether Mr S was mis-sold the policy. I have reviewed the policy 
documents as well as the sale calls and information provided to me by both sides. Mr S said 
that he was told during the sales calls that all repairs would be covered under the policy. He 
believed that this included batteries. 
D & G were asked to provide copies of the call recordings and I have listened to them. The 
advisor went through the cost of the premium and the excess to pay. He discussed the main exclusions of the policy. And during the recordings Mr S did not specifically ask if batteries 
were covered. Moreover, the sales agents, didnt mention that batteries were covered under 
the policy. 
I have reviewed the policy schedule and I can see that it clearly states that Mr S should read 
the policy booklet to ensure that the cover would meet his needs. On the face of it, this 
would have been what we call a non-advised sale, which means that D & G would not be 
advising or recommending that Mr S buy the policy. But this doesnt prevent D & G making it 
clear to Mr S that there were restrictions on the cover, and Ive had a thought about what this 
means. 
From what I have heard, D & G made it clear about the main exclusions, namely cosmetic 
damage, malicious damage, loss and theft. It also made it clear that there were other 
exclusions, which Mr S could read in the policy documents. 
Also, Im pleased to see that Mr S was able to use the policy, to make claims as required. 
And I think that this shows that he was aware of the terms and conditions of the policy and 
that it was sufficient for his needs. So, Im satisfied that D & G didnt mis-sell the policy to Mr 
S and I wont be asking it to do any more.
I understand that Mr S has mentioned that the fault with the device wasnt due to the battery. 
But the report from D & G confirmed that the fault was with the battery. Mr S was asked to 
provide any further evidence to support his position. But none was provided. As the 
engineers are experts, and in the absence of any evidence from Mr S to the contrary, I am 
unable to agree with Mr S that the engineers provided an incorrect assessment of the fault. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I wont be asking D & G to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman