DRN-1891755
 
The complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995 when he took out a credit card. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in September 1995. The policy was 
added to Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the card in branch. The policy cost 
no more than 70p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve 
months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it  although I can understand why he can no longer remember this given that he 
made the application for the credit card nearly 25 years ago. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of the application form, and can see that he selected PPI before signing 
the application form in September 1995. And as the PPI wouldve appeared on his 
monthly credit card statements, then had it been added to his account without either 
his knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected him to query or challenge this in 
the first few months after the account was opened in November 1995.
 
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr T, but it doesnt look as if the PPI was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of the 
sale. He confirmed that he had very limited sick pay from his employer in the event 
that he was off work through illness or injury; just statutory sick pay, and he had no 
other insurance policies that would provide protection and only limited savings. In 
addition, he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the serious limitations and 
exclusions of the policies  he told us he was employed and in good health. 
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations, 
such as those relating to some who is self-employed or has a pre-existing medical 
condition. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr T would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ts comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.les of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
2 July 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman