DRN-4440736
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance administered a conditional sale agreement he had with it to acquire a vehicle. 
What happened
Mr B acquired a used vehicle under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in 
August 2021. The vehicle cost around £15,600 and Mr B was due to pay the agreement 
back with 60 payments of around £280. 
Mr B says he fell into arrears and Close Brothers collection agents came to attempt to 
repossess the vehicle without serving a termination notice. He says he spoke to Close 
Brothers, and it was agreed he would clear the arrears after the collections agent had 
inspected the vehicle, and upon receipt of an income and expenditure form. Mr B says he 
didnt receive a visit or a notice of a visit. He says another repossession attempt was made 
but he moved the vehicle until the matter could be resolved. He said he made several calls 
to Close Brothers to sort things out. Mr B says Close Brothers agents went on to repossess 
the vehicle without his knowledge, and that hed still not received a termination notice. He 
said while the collections agents may have tried to contact him, this was from an unknown 
number and no voicemails were left. He says when it messaged him, he immediately 
responded. 
Unhappy with what happened, Mr B complained to Close Brothers. He says it agreed he was 
told he could clear the arrears after an inspection, and that he wasnt sent a termination 
notice. Mr B says Close Brothers upheld his complaint but wouldnt return the vehicle. The 
vehicle was subsequently sold. He requested the debt be written off along with 
compensation for distress and loss of earnings. 
In response to the complaint, Close Brothers said the agreement was terminated and the 
vehicle repossessed due to arrears. It said it acknowledged it spoke to Mr B in October 2022 
and told him it would allow him to continue in the agreement if he cleared the arrears; 
allowed its collection agents to inspect the vehicle (and documentation); and returned the 
income and expenditure form. Close Brothers said it didnt receive an income and 
expenditure form from Mr B. Close Brothers also said its collections agents had tried to 
contact Mr B various times to arrange the inspection but was unable to reach him. The 
repossession was therefore approved and carried out. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
said the direct debit instruction was cancelled in July 2022. The account fell into arrears 
which led to Close Brothers issuing arrears letters and a default notice in August 2022. Our 
investigator thought Close Brothers gave sufficient notice it would terminate the agreement if 
arrears werent cleared. He also noted Mr B hadnt returned an income and expenditure form 
to Close Brothers as requested. 
Our investigator said the notice of termination was issued on 15 September 2022 as a result 
of Mr B not making contact regarding the repossession prior to further action being taken. 
Our investigator said it looked like Mr B was out of work at the time which mightve 
contributed to the situation. Our investigator ultimately didnt think it was unreasonable Close 
Brothers terminated the agreement. He didnt make any recommendations. 
Mr B didnt accept the assessment. In summary, he said he made two complaints directly to 
Close Brothers which were upheld. He reiterated he had no message, email or voicemail 
from the collection agents. He was unhappy with the way the collections agents dealt with 
him. Mr B said Close Brothers upheld his complaint because it terminated the agreement 
without notifying him, and that he didnt know the income and expenditure form return was 
time sensitive. He also said it was agreed the arrears would be held until the vehicle was 
inspected. He said he wasnt comfortable handing over money until an arrangement had 
been put in place. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr B and Close Brothers 
Ive reviewed everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. I also want to say Im sorry to hear Mr B was in financial difficulties in 
2022. It cant have been easy and I thank him for taking the time to bring his complaint. 
Mr B acquired the vehicle under a regulated conditional sale agreement. Our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
Im considering whether (or not) Close Brothers acted fairly by terminating the agreement. 
Mr B was up to date on the agreement in June 2022, but I can see his July 2022 direct debit 
was returned because the instruction had been cancelled. There were two previous direct 
debits rejected for a different reason (direct debit rejected  refer to payer), but these were 
paid a week or two after by debit card. I think Close Brothers would have been concerned to 
see the direct debit had been cancelled in July 2022. In addition to the July payment being 
missed, no payment was made in the months following. 
It looks like Close Brothers started debt recovery proceedings when it saw the direct debit 
had been cancelled. I dont think this was unreasonable. Its notes say it sent an annual 
statement and a notice of sums in arrears in August 2022. The notes say a default notice 
was sent to Mr B as well. I think that was fair as well given the arrears were increasing. Mr B 
was two payments behind. Around September 2022 it looks like Close Brothers thought that 
terminating the agreement would be the right thing to do. It was three payments in arrears, 
there had been no response from Mr B to its letters and the vehicle was depreciating. 
Broadly speaking, industry guidance says firms can step in and take these sorts of steps 
when customers are three payments behind. Close Brothers issued a notice of termination 
on 15 September 2022, although Mr B says he didnt receive it. Given he was three 
payments behind and thered already been a default notice sent I dont find I have the 
grounds to say Close Brothers decision to terminate was unreasonable.  
It wasnt until after Close Brothers had said it was terminating the agreement that Mr B 
spoke to it towards the end of September 2022. It looks like he said hed been out of work 
but that he wanted to pay the arrears in full. He wanted Close Brothers to reinstate the agreement because he was back in work. Close Brothers wanted to proceed to repossess 
the vehicle, which I dont think was unreasonable based on what Ive set out above. 
However, after reviewing the situation, on 17 October 2022, Close Brothers agreed to allow 
Mr B the opportunity to continue in the agreement if he cleared the arrears of around £1,200; 
completed an income and expenditure form; and the vehicle was inspected to confirm all 
documentation was in order. Close Brothers call handler referred to Mr Bs complaint being 
upheld. I think this was in relation to it allowing him to continue in the agreement based on 
what hed told it. 
Close Brothers offered to go through the income and expenditure form on the phone, but 
Mr B wanted it emailed. Close Brothers asked Mr B to contact it if he needed any help with 
anything. It also offered to take payment for the arrears over the phone, but Mr B wanted to 
wait for the email to be sent. I understand the recovery agents tried to speak to Mr B. As no 
payment or response was received by 26 October 2022 Close Brothers wanted to continue 
with the termination. From what Ive seen, no substantive follow up action was taken until 
18 November 2022 when Close Brothers contacted Mr B to let it know it was proceeding with 
termination. The vehicle was recovered on 23 November 2022. 
On the one hand, I take Mr Bs point that Close Brothers didnt specify a deadline for certain 
things to happen in the October call. I agree it wouldve been helpful if it had done this. I also 
take on board he says he didnt receive the correct notices from Close Brothers. I think 
Close Brothers could have been clearer in setting out, and supplying evidence if necessary, 
of when the default and termination notices were issued when Mr B said he hadnt received 
them. I can see it referred to his complaints being upheld which mightve led to some 
confusion. I can also see Mr B says he was unhappy with the collection agents behaviour. 
Im sorry to hear that, and I can imagine it was stressful having agents turn up to repossess 
the vehicle. 
But on the other hand, the arrears were growing month by month. Mr B had told Close 
Brothers he was (previously at least) in financial difficulties. By the time Close Brothers 
recovered the vehicle, Mr B was five payments behind. While Mr B says he didnt receive the 
notices, on balance, I think a default and termination notice were issued, which is what Close 
Brothers was required to do. It was over a month from the time Close Brothers spoke to Mr B 
in October 2022 to when the repossession happened. I think Mr B had long enough to send 
back the income and expenditure form and to clear the arrears. He said he was going to do 
that when he received Close Brothers email, which was sent on 17 October 2022. I dont 
know exactly what contact attempts the collection agents made, but I think Mr B ought to 
have known action needed to be taken off the back of the agreement hed reached with 
Close Brothers in the October call. 
In all the circumstances, while I know Mr B doesnt agree, I dont find it was unfair for Close 
Brothers to proceed with termination and recover the vehicle when it did. Im therefore not 
going to make any directions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman