DRN-3628359
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his motor breakdown insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr Ms car broke down and so he looked to make a claim under his breakdown policy with 
Bastion. But Bastion turned down the claim. This was because Mr Ms particular car wasnt 
covered under the policy as it was too wide.
As Mr M wasnt happy about this he complained to Bastion. It looked into the claim and while 
it was happy that Mr Ms car wasnt covered by the policy it thought its policy terms were too 
tight and should be changed going forward in order to cover cars like Mr Ms. So, it offered 
Mr M £79 by way of compensation and offered to cancel his policy without charging a fee or 
to ensure that he was covered in the future. But as Mr M remained unhappy he complained 
to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Bastions response to Mr Ms complaint and offer of compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.
As Mr M didnt agree, maintaining that he wanted more compensation to cover the costs he 
had incurred by Bastions non-attendance, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Bastion, but Ill explain why.
I can see Bastion have tried to put things right once it realised its policy terms and conditions 
were too tight and that a relatively standard modern car like Mr Ms should be covered. 
Given this, it accepted it should have attended Mr Ms breakdown and says, it would be 
appropriate to make things right for Mr M. But I dont think its steps to make things right 
went far enough.
I say this as Mr M was left at the side of the road for a lot longer than he should have been. 
And as Bastion has accepted that it should really cover a claim like this I feel he should be 
compensated for the length of time he had to wait and the further difficulties he faced in 
getting his car recovered. And so, I feel Bastion should pay Mr M £100 compensation as 
opposed to the small amount of compensation it offered (£79 which also incorporated the 
amount it would have paid for recovery).
Bastion has suggested it would pay Mr M the amount it would have cost it to recover him to 
a local garage - which is what the policy covered him for. And while I acknowledge Bastions 
general point here, I havent been provided with any evidence of what its actual costs would 
have been. And Mr M was left in the unenviable position of being stuck at the side of the 
road without cover (which Bastion now accepts it should have provided). So, while I dont 
know what it would have cost Bastion here or what it would have cost Mr M just to be 
recovered locally, as opposed to his home address, I think it feels fair for Bastion to pay his 
recovery cost of £200. I know Bastion has questioned the receipt Mr M provided but he has 
provided a copy of his cheque and bank statement showing the transaction alongside the 
receipt and I see no reason to question this further.
Finally, Bastion has acknowledged that its policy has produced an unfair outcome in this 
instance. And has said it will revisit this in the future to look to correct the position which lead 
to Mr Ms claim being declined. To put things right it offered Mr M a number of options in 
relation to continuing or cancelling his policy which seem fair (this was in addition to its offer 
of compensation). I know there has been some dispute about this but as Im asking Bastion 
to pay Mr Ms costs in full and he couldve used the remainder of the policy cover I think it is 
fair for Mr M to pay for the policy. And I understand that the autorenewal of the policy has 
been removed so Mr M is free to decide what he wants to do going forward.
Given all of this, and the fact Bastion now accepts that it should have called out to Mr M, I 
think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Bastion to try and put Mr M back into the position he would have been, but for its error. So, it 
should pay Mr Ms recovery charge, plus 8% simple interest for the time he has been without 
the money and £100 compensation.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr M said he accepted the general 
position outlined and thought he had saved Bastion money as he had got his car recovered 
to his home address and so saved it the cost of overnight accommodation. And asked for 
payment to be made by cheque.  
While Bastions agent said that it acknowledged that Mr M was entitled to recovery it thought 
that local recovery costs were fair and in line with the policy. It suggested that it thought that 
any additional cost, such as recovery to Mr Ms home address, would amount to betterment. 
For context, Bastion explained that its average call out charge was around £41 and said that 
Mr Ms call out charge was likely to be less than this given the distance to the nearest 
garage from where he broke down. So, it felt its original offer of £79, including a small 
amount of compensation, was fair. 
Bastion also questioned again the receipt Mr M provided and his method of payment. And 
said that Mr M appeared to call a recovery agent that was local to his home address which 
naturally meant the call out charge was higher and that he didnt mitigate his costs. 
Ultimately, Bastion felt that Mr M had arranged what suited him best, not what the policy 
provides and that Mr M had looked to pick and choose elements of a full and final 
settlement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bastion accepts that it got things wrong here and that it should have attended Mr M when he 
broke down and that it would be appropriate to make things right for Mr M. But it has argued 
that it would be betterment to pay Mr Ms actual recovery costs and has outlined its average 
call out charge. 
However, as Bastion didnt call out to Mr M (as it acknowledges it should have done) this left 
Mr M in a difficult position at the side of the road - given the failing of his policy here he had 
to make steps to recover the car himself. And Mr M isnt in the motor trade and doesnt have 
access to the commercial rates that Bastion has, so he had to do the best he could. Given 
the failure of his policy to provide the cover he expected and had paid for I cant say he 
acted unreasonably or that he didnt mitigate his costs. Mr M simply did all he could to get 
his car recovered after Bastions failing. And so I dont think he acted unreasonably in getting 
his car recovered to his home address.
Indeed, I cant be sure what would have happened had Bastion attended his vehicle as it 
accepts that it should have. It is possible, as Mr M noted, that he would have required 
overnight accommodation or recovery to his home address in any event. So, I think it is only 
fair and reasonable to pay Mr Ms full recovery costs here and I dont think this amounts to 
betterment as this is the actual cost he incurred because of Bastions failing.
Given all of this, I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Bastion to try and put Mr M back into the position he would 
have been, but for its error. So, it should pay Mr Ms recovery charge, plus 8% simple 
interest for the time he has been without the money and Im satisfied that he incurred these 
costs. And Bastions error left Mr M confused and stranded at the side of the road having to 
make arrangements to get his car recovered and to a place of safety, so I think it should pay 
£100 compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion 
Insurance Co. Ltd to refund the £200 recovery cost Mr M incurred and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And pay £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman