DRN-3923384
The complaint
Miss R complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) is refusing to refund her the amount 
she lost as the result of a scam. 
Miss R is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple I will refer to Miss R 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Miss R met a person (X) via a popular online dating application and soon started 
to speak over WhatsApp. After building trust with Miss R, X started to discuss trading and 
introduced Miss R to a trading platform named NYCEX.
X promised Miss R reasonable returns if she was to invest, and as Miss R trusted X she 
decided to start investing. X explained that Miss R would have to transfer funds into the 
investments via cryptocurrency exchanges. 
Miss R made the following payments to NYCEX using her credit card via the legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges Binance and Buy Digital Asset:
1. £500 - 30 June 2021 - Binance
2. £1,000 - 19 July 2021 - Binance
3. £300 - 21 July 2021 - Binance 
4. £449 - 23 July 2021 - Buy Digital Asset
5. £1,700 - 26 July 2021 - Buy Digital Asset
When Miss R attempted to make a withdrawal from the platform, she was told she would 
have to make further deposits first and realised she had fallen victim to a scam. Miss R has 
not been able to recover the funds she sent to X.
Our Investigator considered Miss Rs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Miss 
R disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Miss R made in relation to 
this scam to Binance and Buy Digital Asset.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss R was dealing with X and NYCEX, which was where the scam was instigated. But Miss 
R didnt make the debit card payments to NYCEX directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency 
exchanges (Binance and Buy Digital Asset). This is important because Starling was only 
able to process chargeback claims against the merchants she paid (Binance and Buy Digital 
Asset), not another party (such as NYCEX).
The service provided by Binance and Buy Digital Asset would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Miss Rs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance and Buy 
Digital Asset provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the 
cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Miss R paid. As Binance and 
Buy Digital Asset provided the requested service to Miss R any chargeback attempt would 
likely fail.
Miss R has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Binance and Buy Digital 
Asset, so the starting point here is that Miss R is responsible. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
The question here is whether Starling should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Miss R was making.
I have looked at the payments Miss R made in relation to the scam. Each of the payments 
were of relatively low values were spaced over the period of around a month. So even 
though Miss R was making payments to new businesses I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected them to trigger Starlings fraud prevention systems. It would not be reasonable for 
me to say Starling should step in whenever one of its customers makes a payment to a new 
legitimate business.
As I dont think Starlings fraud prevention systems would have been triggered by the 
payments Miss R made, Starling would not have been aware of the scam, and it would not 
have been able to prevent it. So, Starling is not responsible for Miss Rs loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman