DRN-2885456
The complaint
Mr O complains that Transunion International UK Limited (Transunion) failed to report he 
was registered on the electoral roll. 
  
What happened
In August 2020 Mr O noticed he wasnt recorded on the electoral roll when checking his 
credit report. In September 2020 Transunion asked Mr O to obtain evidence from his local 
authority that showed he was recorded on the electoral roll at his address. 
A few days later, the local authority sent Mr O confirmation he had been registered on the 
electoral roll at his address for around 20 years. The local authority also said it was aware 
Transunion had made errors that impacted various people in relation to electoral roll 
registration at the end of 2019. 
Mr O forwarded the local authoritys information to Transunion and it complained. A short 
time later, Transunion confirmed Mr O was now registered on the electoral roll. Transunion 
said it had seen no evidence that an error on its part had led to the wrong information being 
recorded. 
In October 2020 Mr O found he was only reported as being on the electoral roll from 
September 2020. Mr O contacted Transunion again about the error in recording his electoral 
roll registration.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Transunion had most likely made mistakes in reporting Mr Os electoral roll 
registration and upheld his complaint. The investigator asked Transunion to pay Mr O £75 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused. Mr O accepted but Transunion asked to appeal 
and said its internal investigation didnt support what the council had claimed. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the events surrounding a complaint are disputed by the parties involved Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is what I consider most likely to have happened 
in light of the available information. In this case, Mr O has provided an email from his council 
that confirms he has remained registered on the electoral roll for around 20 years without a 
break. The council also says its aware that Transunion has incorrectly reported electoral 
information that impacted various individuals. Transunion has said it hasnt found anything to 
show it made an error and that the issues Mr O raised were likely as a result of the councils 
actions. 
Transunions final response said it reports the information recorded by the data supplier (Mr 
Os council in this case). And Mr Os local council has confirmed that, as the data supplier, 
its reported Mr O as being on the electoral roll for around 20 years. Mr Os local authoritys 
comments carry significant weight and I think its more likely than not that if it had made an 
error in the way it reported Mr Os electoral roll registration it wouldve told him. I note the 
council has also confirmed Transunion had wider problems around this time that potentially 
impacted how Mr Os electoral roll information was reported. 
I also think its reasonable to note that whilst Transunion has told us its investigation didnt 
identify any errors, it didnt provide any supporting evidence to show what had happened 
beyond a timeline and a copy of its final response. I note Transunions response to the 
investigators view in April said evidence of the data teams checks would be supplied, but it 
wasnt. 
Its clear Mr O did experience some inconvenience in this case.  Hes had to liaise with both 
Transunion and his council to try and get to the bottom of why the electoral roll information 
was wrong. Mr O had to forward information to Transunion to resolve the situation and errors 
with the way his electoral roll information was reported. Im satisfied the investigators 
recommendation that Transunion pays Mr O £75 is a reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint. In my view, that figure fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr O. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Transunion International UK Limited to 
pay Mr O £75.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman