DRN-2280879
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Leeds Building Society didnt give him 14 days notice before they intended 
to lower the interest rate.
What happened
Mr R opened a Limited Issue Online Access ISA in February 2020. He says that Leeds 
Building Society emailed at 14:01 on 14 May 2020 to say that the interest rate would be 
reducing from 27 May. He says he understood this to mean it would take effect at the start of 
the day on 27 May. 
Mr R complained by phone on 14 May 2020. He was unhappy he had only been given 12 
and a half days notice. Leeds Building Society didnt uphold the complaint and felt they had 
given proper notice. They included the 14 May and 27 May in the notice period. They said 
this was because Mr R could still move the funds instantly on 27 May and the new interest 
rate would be applied from that day. 
Mr R did not accept this and asked us to investigate. The investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint and felt that there had been no financial loss because Mr R had managed to move 
the funds. Mr R didnt agree with this view. Therefore, the case has passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the terms and conditions and can see Leeds Building Society said the interest 
rate was variable and subject to change. They also said that if the account balance was over 
£100 then they would give at least 14 days written notice where they intended to reduce the 
rate. Mr R had over £100 in his account. Therefore, he could expect to have received 14 
days notice before the rate was lowered.
 
Leeds Building Society say they sent out mass letters notifying customers of the change on 
12 May 2020. Mr R says he didnt receive the letter and it was not mentioned to him when he 
called. Ive not seen a copy of the letter. But this is not unusual where businesses send 
correspondence to many customers at once because its not practical to keep all copies. 
Therefore, I am of the view its likely it was sent in which case it probably would have taken 
two to three days for the notification to be delivered.
Ive also reviewed the email dated 14 May 2020 and can see Leeds Building Society 
informed Mr R they would be reducing the interest rate from 27 May. I can see it was sent at 
14:01. 
I have listened to the call between Mr R and Leeds Building Society on 14 May 2020 and I 
note that both parties had differing opinions on whether 14 days notice had been given. 
Leeds Building Society also emailed Mr R on 15 May and said they were satisfied he had 
been sent notice in line with their general terms and conditions. 
I can understand both parties positions here. Leeds Building Society have explained why 
they sent the notification when they did and why they felt the notification period was met.  
Having considered this, I dont think it was unreasonable to include the 14 May 2020 in the 
notice period. Although the email was sent part way through the day, Mr R wouldve been 
able to manage the funds from the moment he received it.
However, Leeds Building Society also included 27 May 2020 in the notice period. They say 
Mr R would have had the whole of this day to move the funds before the lower interest rate 
was applied. But the lower rate would have been applied to the balance on this day and so 
Im not persuaded it was fair to include it in the notice period. 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly about not being given the correct period of notice under the 
terms and conditions. However, I have also considered the Banking Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (BCOBS). Under these regulations, Leeds Building Society were required to 
give Mr R reasonable notice of any material change to the interest rate. It doesnt state 
exactly how many days is reasonable. 
The email was sent on 14 May 2020 prior to the change on 27 May. The purpose of this 
communication was to ensure customers knew of the upcoming rate drop and to give them 
enough time to decide what to do with their savings. It wasnt to ensure customers got a 
minimum number of days interest at the higher rate.
In my view the email provided reasonable notice because Mr R had time to look around and 
move the funds before the lower rate was applied. Mr R closed the account on 18 May 2020 
and didnt suffer a financial loss. 
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration at being unable to clarify with Leeds Building Society about 
how they calculated the notice period to his satisfaction. But as our investigator highlighted 
when they gave their view, its outside the remit at the Financial Ombudsman Service to ask 
a business to change their procedures or processes. I must consider whether Leeds Building 
Society did something wrong and whether Mr R lost out as a result. Im not persuaded Mr R 
lost out as a result of receiving just under 14 days notice.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman