DRN-3643308
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how Leaseplan UK Limited handled her account at the end of a 
conditional sale agreement. 
She says Leaseplan recorded incorrect information on her credit file and she owes less than 
it says she does.
What happened
In May 2017 Miss A acquired a new car funded by a conditional sale agreement with 
Leaseplan. Miss A paid an advance payment of £1,300.98. She was then due to pay 47 
monthly repayments of £433.63 followed by a balloon payment of £16,896.50 if she wanted 
to keep the car.
In July 2021 the agreement came to an end and the balloon payment became due. Miss A 
said she couldnt arrange for the car to be collected due to health issues. Leaseplan said it 
would still allow Miss A to return the car and not pay the balloon payment, but it said she 
would need to pay for arrears and monthly rentals would be due for the time she had the car.
A collection was arranged for August 2021 but it appears this was cancelled by Miss A. In 
September 2021 Miss A let Leaseplan know she was still unwell. In October 2021 Miss A 
contacted Leaseplan and asked for it to collect the car. A collection date was then agreed for 
10 November 2021.
At the end of October 2021 a default notice was issued to Miss A. This said she owed 
£20,904.61 and explained this would need to be paid in full by 14 November 2021.
Miss A complained to Leaseplan and made our service aware of the case. She said she 
didnt owe the amount in the default notice. Leaseplan got in touch with Miss A and said the 
full amount due was still outstanding, and would remain so until the car was handed back.
The car was not collected on 10 November 2021 as planned due to an issue with the 
collection agent. The collection was rearranged for 15 November 2021.
Following this, Leaseplan recorded a default on Miss As credit file showing a balance of 
£20,904.61.
Miss A remained unhappy. She told our service she was told she still owed over £5,000, but 
thought this should be around £1,700. And she was unhappy with the default being applied 
and said this prevented her getting another car.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he thought Miss A did owe 
£5,533.50 on the account. He said Leaseplan was acting fairly when it issued the default 
notice. But, he said if the car was collected as agreed then the default wouldve shown the 
remaining balance after the balloon payment was settled, rather than the full balance. He 
said, as this was the collection agents fault rather than Miss As, the default should be 
amended to show a balance of £5,553.50.
Our investigator also recommended Miss A was paid £150 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Leaseplan got in touch and said it was happy with these findings. Miss A remained unhappy. 
She said, in summary, that she was told she would only owe around £1,700. She said she 
overpaid to the agreement in the past. And she didnt think £150 was enough to put things 
right. 
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss A complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Miss 
As complaint against Leaseplan.
What I need to consider here is whether Leaseplan treated Miss A fairly and reasonably and 
if it applied the default correctly.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute here that Miss A was in arrears on the account at the end of 
the agreement. I can see Leaseplan explained to her in August 2021 that there was 
£3,875.40 outstanding on the agreement and that she would also be charged the monthly 
amounts due under the agreement until the car was returned.
I was sorry to read about Miss As health issues. But, given she kept the car and had use of 
it after the end of the agreement, I think it was fair and reasonable for Leaseplan to charge 
her the monthly amounts due for this period.
Miss A disputes the amount she owed. Shes given various figures she thinks are due, of 
around £1,700 and most recently £3,466.
Ive been sent a breakdown of the account from Leaseplan that shows the balance stands at 
£5,533.50. And I can see the overpayment Miss A referred to in response to the 
investigators view is included on this breakdown. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss A said here. I think there may be some confusion as 
Leaseplan explained at one point it was charging around £1,700 for the additional time Miss 
A had the car after it was due to be returned. But, this isnt the only amount Miss A owed.
I havent seen anything to persuade me the statement of account Leaseplan provided is 
inaccurate. It follows Im satisfied Miss A has an outstanding balance of £5,533.50.
Im satisfied that arrears on the account were outstanding when Leaseplan issued the 
default notice. I know that Miss A didnt think the balloon payment shouldve been included in 
the balance due under this notice. But, even though Leaseplan had agreed to waive this on 
return of the car, the car hadnt been returned - and so the balance was still due. So, I think it 
was fair to include this figure at the time.Thinking about this, Im satisfied Leaseplan acted reasonably when it issued a default notice 
and it was fair to include the total balance owed.
It also isnt in dispute here that the terms of the default notice werent met. So, I think it was 
fair for Leaseplan to record a default on Miss As credit file. But, I agree with our investigator 
that it seems fair and reasonable to change the amount recorded here.
I say this as Miss A had arranged for the car to be collected before the default had to be 
settled. I can see Miss A was chasing the collection agent to see when this was happening. 
And, Im satisfied the car wasnt collected at this time due to an issue caused by Leaseplans 
collection agents  not Miss A.
Had the collection gone ahead as planned, Im satisfied Miss A still wouldnt have met the 
conditions of the default notice. So it seems reasonable a default was applied. But, the 
balloon payment due wouldve been cleared from this, as agreed with Leaseplan, and the 
amount owed would have changed at this point. So, thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable here, I think Leaseplan should change Miss As credit file to reflect this.
I agree here that Miss A has been caused distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened. I understand shes been very upset about having the full amount of the default 
recorded on her credit file at a time she was unwell. But, I havent seen enough to make me 
think its most likely shes been declined lending, specifically because of the amount of the 
default recorded, as she said. 
Considering everything here, I agree with our investigator that £150 seems reasonable to 
reflect what happened.
Finally, given what Miss A has told us about her situation and the fact she owes a balance to 
Leaseplan, it might be prudent of her to contact Leaseplan directly to discuss this. Id like to 
remind Leaseplan to treat her situation with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct LeasePlan UK Limited to put things 
right by doing the following:
Amend Miss As credit file so the amount recorded on the default does not include 
the balloon payment and accurately reflects any other outstanding balance at the 
time
Pay Miss A £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman