DRN-1992517
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a package bank accounts (PBAs). 
What happened
Mr F had a fee-free bank account with Lloyds. But in March 1998 he agreed to upgrade his 
account to a fee-paying Select account. In return for a monthly fee, the account offered 
certain benefits such as an overdraft, which was interest-free and fee-free up to £50 (if 
approved).  In October 2001, the account was upgraded further to a Platinum account. This 
cost more each month but offered more benefits such as breakdown insurance (which the 
Select account had also given since 1999), travel insurance, better loan interest rates (if 
approved) and a fee-free and interest-free overdraft up to £250 (if approved). 
Mr F says he was told he stood a better chance of getting a loan if he took the Select 
account. He says he never agreed to the Platinum account and that Lloyds just changed his 
account over to this. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr F didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
A major problem is that this all happened a long time ago  20 or so years ago. This 
means that, not surprisingly, there is limited documentation from the time, to help work out 
what happened. And, as it was so long ago, I also cant be sure how accurately Mr F has 
been able to recall al the detail of what happened. It wouldnt be fair to rely just on what 
he now remembers happening. And, in a situation like this, it wouldnt be fair to make 
Lloyds prove that it didnt do something wrong that its been accused of. 
I have to decide whats most likely to have happened. And overall I dont have enough 
strong evidence to show that Lloyds did do something wrong.
Mr F says he was told he would stand a better chance of a loan application being 
approved, if he agreed to the Select PBA in 1998. However the notes, made on the Lloyds 
computer system at the time, show that there was a discussion about the benefits of the 
account, when Mr F phoned the bank; but this was related to the benefits of a cheaper 
overdraft:
He has a well maintained account but when he does go overdrawn, he waits for his 
salary to clear excess. This has happened four times in the past twelve months and 
has incurred large charge[s]. suggested we convert account to Select and input 
50.00 OD. Customer happy with this. Enquired as to credit card and application 
forwarded to Brighton
I can see, in the records, the agreed overdraft was then changed to £50. So I think this 
was likely to have been a main reason that Mr F agreed to change to a Select account. I 
just dont have enough reliable evidence to show that he was induced to take the account 
by being falsely told hed stand a better chance of a loan. 
Mr F says he didnt agree to the change to the Platinum account in 2001. Again, its 
difficult to definitely know what happened, because this was so long ago and Im relying 
on the computer notes Lloyds made. Theres no mention of a discussion about the 
Platinum account that I can see. But the date of upgrade was around the same time Mr F 
was applying for a new loan. 
On the one hand, this could mean that Mr F was told hed have a better chance of getting 
a loan. (Mr F hasnt been totally consistent in when he says he was told it would increase 
his chances  earlier on in his complaint, he said it was the Platinum account where he 
was told this. But I think its not surprising if hed forgotten that the first PBA he had was 
called a Select account.) But its also a fact that loan rates with the Platinum account had 
a much lower interest rate. So its quite likely there was a discussion about this benefit, 
and that Mr F decided it was worth taking the account. And this benefit, and the other 
possible benefits he could have taken advantage of, such as the travel insurance, meant 
that Lloyds recommendation of the account would have been an appropriate one. 
Regardless of this, I also dont have enough evidence to safely say that Mr F was either 
misled about the Platinum account, or that it was added without his consent.
Overall, I dont think the PBAs were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman