DRN-4381786
The complaint
Mrs K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have made a number of large errors which have 
impacted her, including them not sending her a new credit card and providing her with poor 
customer service.
What happened
Mrs K says that she gave her credit card details to a company, but upon reflection, she was 
unhappy with the country of origin of the company, so she immediately telephoned HSBC 
and instructed them to cancel her credit card. She also instructed them to cancel her internet 
banking as a precautionary measure. Mrs K said about three months later, she telephoned 
HSBC to order a new credit card and it was agreed her card would be sent to a specified 
branch, and she would receive a text when the card was ready to collect. Mrs K also says 
the call handler did not make her aware, despite a lengthy call, that she had an outstanding 
balance on her credit card. As Mrs K did not receive a text from HSBC, she visited the 
specified branch, but she was told no card had been ordered and she had an outstanding 
balance of £1,803.62.
Mrs K says the staff told her when she cancelled her credit card originally, the direct debit 
was also cancelled without her knowledge, and she hadnt been made aware of this. Mrs K 
was also told she had adverse markers on her credit file due to missed payments. She said 
she had made numerous lengthy calls to HSBC, being passed around different departments. 
Mrs K made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC upheld Mrs Ks complaint. They apologised that her direct debit was cancelled as a 
result of their error and requested that all missed payments between December and January 
to be removed from her credit file. They said they would issue her a new credit card with an 
agreed credit limit of £2,000, which would have a new Personal Identification Number (PIN) 
and could take a month to arrive. HSBC paid Mrs K £30 compensation and later £300 to her 
bank account as an apology. Mrs K spoke to the complaint handler on the phone and a 
further £50 compensation was agreed on the basis HSBC would carry out the actions in line 
with the timeframes stated in their response. Mrs K brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said HSBC accepted they made errors in Mrs Ks case. They acknowledged 
they cancelled her direct debit and her credit card, and her credit file was affected. They also 
accept that she didnt receive a replacement card. She said in HSBCs communication to us, 
they offered to provide a further £100 compensation to Mrs K and to order her a replacement 
card. Our investigator said HSBC have provided us evidence that they have removed all 
adverse information from Mrs Ks credit file. She recommended HSBC pay Mrs K an extra 
£100. 
Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She provided us with an impact 
statement, and she told us her personal circumstances and why this has had such an impact 
on her at her age. She said she has waited for a new credit card for 18 months since HSBC 
said they were going to send her one, which has had a major negative impact on her life, 
and she still hasnt received the card, so she doesnt feel an extra £100 is reflective of 
nothing changing in the last 18 months, since HSBC said they were going to rectify things. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I do want to start off by reassuring Mrs K that Ive read everything shes sent us, and Ive 
took this into consideration, including her personal circumstances. But I wont document her 
exact situation in this decision. This is purely only to protect Mrs Ks identity here. But I have 
based my decision on her individual circumstances here.
It's clear to me that HSBC have let Mrs K down a number of times with what has happened 
after she asked them to cancel her credit card over fraud concerns. While the card was 
cancelled, HSBC also cancelled the direct debit which they shouldnt have done, and as a 
result of this, it affected Mrs Ks credit file. HSBC have confirmed they have rectified this. I 
asked Mrs K for her credit file to see if this had been rectified as I know she had concerns 
incorrect information was still on her file, but she has confirmed to me that she doesnt wish 
to complain about her credit file being incorrect now as HSBC have said they have amended 
this. But this still would have had an impact on Mrs K. My understanding is that she has 
always made her repayments on time, so her credit file being affected would have been 
distressing for her.
It also appears that HSBC have let Mrs K down with the customer service they provided her 
on the phone. Mrs K has told us about the numerous lengthy calls shes had with HSBC 
trying to sort things out but to no avail. So not only would it inconvenience her being on 
multiple calls for a prolonged period of time, but nobody seemed to be able to take 
ownership of the situation to resolve the issues for Mrs K as she still hasnt been sent a 
replacement credit card.
HSBC wrote to Mrs K on 24 March 2022. On this letter it said We will issue a new Rewards 
Card to you also with an agreed limit of £2000.00. This will have a new PIN and could take 1 
month to arrive unfortunately. But Mrs K has told us that she has still not received the 
replacement card. I know from Mrs Ks impact statement how distressing she has found this, 
especially during life changing events which would already be stressful. Not having a credit 
card during this period of time would only amplify the distress she has bound to have 
experienced here.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. HSBC should order Mrs 
K a replacement credit card as they said they would in March 2022. And I dont envisage 
HSBC being unable to do this given they said they would be able to do this when they sent 
us their business file. I have considered what compensation would be fair here. Ive noted 
the strength of feeling that Mrs K has about an extra £100 compensation not being 
proportionate for the impact of not having a credit card for the last 18 months. I must explain 
to Mrs K that when our service looks at compensation, we would not apportion a certain 
amount to certain errors at certain times of her complaint. We would look at the events as a 
whole.
Mrs K has received £380 compensation so far for what has happened. But Im not 
persuaded that this is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered with everything that has happened here. HSBC have offered another £100 
compensation, but Im not persuaded that this truly reflects the impact of what happened to Mrs K based on her individual circumstances. 
I say this because HSBC have made a number of large errors which have caused 
considerable distress, upset, and worry over several months for Mrs K. The errors have also 
caused significant inconvenience to Mrs K who has needed to contact HSBC to try and 
rectify the situation, but she has still not managed to get a new replacement credit card. 
HSBC did not action everything they said they would do, which would cause Mrs K further 
distress, such as reissuing the credit card. This has meant Mrs K has had to rely on other 
people to assist her with purchases and shes told us what has happened here has 
eradicated her confidence to deal with her financial affairs, especially during a period of her 
life where she really needed the card and the protection it afforded her. 
Im persuaded that a fair outcome for this complaint is for HSBC to pay Mrs K a further £220 
compensation so the total compensation totals £600. This is in line with our awards for what 
happened here, from the cancelling of the direct debit, and not telling her about this, to the 
impact of her credit file showing adverse information, to her not being sent a new card, to 
being told HSBC would send her a new card and she would receive it in a month, only to be 
still waiting for a replacement card almost 18 months after this letter. So I intend to ask 
HSBC to put things right for Mrs K.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs K said she was disappointed at the amount offered, and she asked if I would 
consider increasing the amount of compensation. She said that during the time without the 
credit card she had to make an inordinate amount of cash withdrawals to pay for items for 
her home, and she had serious concerns she would be followed carrying large amounts of 
cash or be mugged by someone watching her withdraw the cash. She also had concerns 
that once her complaint is closed, she still wont get the replacement credit card. 
HSBC responded to the provisional decision, and they said that the provisional decision 
mentions a time period of 18 months that Mrs K has been without her credit card, but they 
wanted to highlight that not all delays have been due to actions made by themselves. They 
said the complaint to our service was originally brought in August 2022, but not submitted to 
them until February 2023, in addition, Mrs K chose not to accept a previously made offer to 
increase the compensation and send her a new replacement credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs K has said about the level of compensation and that she is 
disappointed in the amount of compensation offered. I must make it clear to Mrs K that our 
awards are not designed to punish a business. I have taken into account her individual 
specific circumstances during the course of the events that transpired, and it is because of 
these specific individual circumstances that I increased the compensation, which I may not 
have done if the same events occurred to someone who had different individual 
circumstances to Mrs K, and they werent impacted as much as her by what happened. So 
Im satisfied the compensation is fair and reasonable based on Mrs Ks circumstances. 
Mrs K has expressed concerns that she still wont receive her replacement credit card even 
after the final decision is issued. But Mrs K should rest assured that if she accepts the final 
decision, then this would be legally binding, so HSBC would be obliged to send out the 
replacement credit card.
Ive considered what HSBC have said about the delays. And while its true it is out of their control how long our process would take, as I mentioned in my provisional decision HSBC 
wrote to Mrs K on 24 March 2022. On this letter it said We will issue a new Rewards Card to 
you also with an agreed limit of £2000.00. This will have a new PIN and could take 1 month 
to arrive unfortunately. So the replacement credit card should have realistically taken no 
later than 24 April 2022 to arrive. But even when we submitted the complaint to them in 
February 2023, they hadnt sent Mrs K the replacement credit card, nearly a year after the 
letter they sent her.
The offer HSBC referred to was made in March 2023. I must make it clear that Mrs K only 
rejected the compensation. Ive found her to be clear throughout this process that her main 
issue is getting a replacement credit card. It is for this reason and the impact the events 
have had on her, that she has been steadfast in the need to receive a higher amount of 
compensation  not to reject the replacement credit card. 
So although HSBC may not be responsible for the full 18 months Mrs K has been without a 
replacement credit card, Im persuaded they were responsible for Mrs K being without a 
replacement credit card for the majority of this time. 
I have reconsidered the amount of compensation against our guidelines. I suggested £600 
total compensation (less what Mrs K has already been paid) in my provisional decision. Our 
website shows that £600 might be fair when the impact of a mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry. Im satisfied that this applies here. The website goes 
on to say typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months. So even before Mrs K 
brought her complaint to our service originally, it had been many months since they hadnt 
sent her the replacement credit card. So Im satisfied that a total of £600 compensation is 
still fair and reasonable for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to order Mrs K a new replacement credit card and to pay her an extra £220 
compensation (to total £600) for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair 
outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should order Mrs K a new replacement credit 
card and pay her an extra £220 compensation (to total £600) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman