DRN-4114738
The complaint
Ms M complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim on her home insurance. 
References to QIC include other organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms M had buildings and contents insurance with QIC. There was a water leak in her kitchen. 
Ms M made a claim to QIC. Almost two years later the claim was still not settled. I dont 
intend to go into all the details of what happened. But Ill summarise the key points and look 
at whether QIC was responsible for any unreasonable delays.
After Ms M made the claim, QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit. He confirmed there was 
water damage as a result of a leak, but he said there was also a second leak, which Ms M 
disputed. She said the leak was from under the sink not behind the washing machine as QIC 
maintained. There was also a disagreement between Ms M and QIC about what would be 
covered in the final settlement of her claim, and QIC arranged for two further surveyor visits.
QIC couldnt find a contractor to carry out the work and so made a cash offer instead. 
According to QIC this cash settlement offer was made over seven months after Ms M made 
her claim. QIC contacted Ms M about the settlement via its online customer portal. Ms M 
says she had problems accessing the portal and had told QIC this. Indeed QIC did send 
some documents to Ms M by email at her request, but it seems not all correspondence was 
sent this way.
Ms M wasnt happy with how things were going and complained to this service. However, 
QIC said she hadnt made a formal complaint to it and she needed to let QIC respond first. 
Although the timeline QIC later sent to this service does record a complaint some months 
earlier. QIC didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint and reiterated the settlement offer.
Ms M wasnt happy with this response and resumed her complaint with this service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint. He said as QIC had at that point said it could find a 
contractor to complete the repairs and Ms M was considering this, he wouldnt comment on if 
the cash settlement was fair or not. However he said that QIC had caused delays by stating 
there was a second leak and he felt Ms M should be awarded £400 for this.
QIC didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me. Ms M wants a kitchen she 
can use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
On 24 March I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
It has taken far too long to deal with a very simple claim arising from a water leak. Not all the 
delays were caused by QIC, but I consider that QICs insistence that there was a second 
leak did cause an unreasonable delay. I consider that QIC also caused unreasonable delays 
in other ways, including:
QIC says some of the delay was caused by Ms M asking for further items to be 
included in the claim. However the original scope of works was amended at least 
once following the later surveyor visits so it would appear QIC accepted what Ms M 
said.
QIC initially said it wouldnt replace Ms Ms kitchen units as these were damaged by 
the separate leak. After the second surveyor visit QIC said it would pay for them, and 
also pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged units, which is what this service 
would usually accept as standard practice. I cant see that QIC has explained to Ms 
M about this 50% contribution. This has caused delays because she is looking for the 
cost of fully replacing the kitchen.
On at least two occasions the surveyors sent by QIC didnt arrange convenient times 
to visit, so the visits had to be rearranged causing further delays.
QIC offered Ms M a cash settlement in error shortly after the claim was made.
Ms M had difficulty accessing QICs customer portal. QIC didnt always try to contact 
her by other means when she didnt reply to messages.
Ms M sent a number of emails to QIC which apparently were never replied to, 
including emails with quotes shed obtained for the work and requests for information.
Having originally said it couldnt find a contractor to complete the work, QIC later said 
it could. However some months after saying it could find a contractor, QIC has still 
not agreed a way forward with Ms M. This service has requested a copy of the latest 
scope of works from QIC, but this hasnt been provided.
Ms M has provided this service with an estimate of the works she says need to be carried 
out. I understand she has also provided this to QIC. The estimate, from a home 
improvement company, states:
I am writing to confirm the extent of the damage due to the valve leak in your kitchen, the 
extent of the damage and necessary repair works, this is as follows:
Removal and replacement of all flooring, both the chip flooring and laminate flooring 
in hall and downstairs cloakroom
Removal and replacement of all damaged skirtings in kitchen, hallway and 
downstairs cloakroom
Paint / decorate where necessary
Replace wall unit kitchen doors (due to obsolescence)
Replacement of kitchen work top
The base units have blown due to the water damage, shelves have collapsed and therefore 
to remove then re-fit these units is unrealistic.
We have looked into matching the base kitchen doors with the wall units and have found that 
this kitchen is now obsolete and therefore this is not an option, therefore you will need to 
replace these as well.
The work top under the kitchen window has bowed and has come away from the wall, due to 
the disintegration of the base units
I also must point out that this leak has caused considerable contamination which may need 
specialist treatment.Therefore, considering all the above our estimate to complete the kitchen repair work is in 
the region of £8500 to £10500, depending on unseen damage, as until we remove the 
kitchen and flooring, we are unable to see if there is any further damage.
I think in all the circumstances, and particularly as QIC hasnt provided any alternative scope 
of work, it would be fair and reasonable for it to agree to pay for the work as per this 
estimate. The estimate explains why the full cost of the kitchen units is included, rather than 
the 50% cost of the undamaged units as previously proposed by QIC. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The details of this quote are now many months out of date due to the lack of affirmative 
action from QIC. Its common knowledge that costs for materials continue to increase so I 
think it would be fair for QIC to pick up any extra costs that Ms Ms contractors encounter 
due to increased charges for these materials. Also when the contractors take out all the 
damaged items in case any further deterioration is found the extra costs for these should be 
picked up by QIC too. So, in this case Id recommend QIC offer to pay the higher end of the 
contractors estimate at £10,500 plus 20% uplift to cover any such eventualities.
Ms M says not having a properly functioning kitchen for over 18 months has had a significant 
impact on her mental health. She says she has been too embarrassed to have visitors, 
including at Christmas. Because QIC insisted that some parts of the kitchen could and 
should be reused, Ms M has had to keep most of it in place. Unfortunately because some of 
the water damaged plinths and base units have been removed, over time other parts such 
as the worktops have started to collapse. Ms M says parts of the kitchen shelves fell on her 
and crockery has been broken. Ms M says her neighbours told her the units which were 
removed and are still on her driveway have attracted vermin.
So I think a payment of £400 to Ms M in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused, as suggested by our investigator, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I intend to require QIC 
Europe Ltd to offer to pay for the replacement of her kitchen as per the higher end of the 
estimate she has provided at £10,500, plus an increase of 20% for inflation.
I also intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Ms M £400 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays in settling her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms M had no substantive comments to make. 
QIC accepted my provisional decision to pay compensation of £400 to Ms M for the delays 
caused on its part and for any errors and miscommunication.
However, QIC said it was satisfied that its scope of work dated December 2021 was 
accurate.
QIC said in regard to the cash settlement offer, it would like the opportunity to try and 
provide a contractor to complete the works, and said if it couldnt, then it would consider 
quotes from Ms M to do the work. 
QIC said:
However, the quote you have asked us to consider is over double what it would cost us to 
do the works. Therefore, a more reasonable way of settling this would be for Ms M to provide 
us with another 3 reasonable costed quotes with true costs of the works for us to review and 
settle on a reasonable basis. I agree that the costs may have increased since the settlement 
was offered, however I feel that £10,500 + 20% uplift is excessive and is well over double 
the costs of what we are offering.I think for QIC to make this offer now after such a lengthy delay is not a fair or reasonable 
way to resolve things for Ms M. She has waited far too long already, and to expect her to 
wait for QIC to try to find a contractor when it hasnt been able find one to date is 
unreasonable. Its also unreasonable for QIC to expect Ms M to provide three more quotes. 
She has already been without a usable kitchen for approximately two years and any further 
delay would be completely unacceptable.
So I think the fair and reasonable way to resolve things would be for Ms M to use her own 
contractor to complete the necessary repairs to the kitchen as per the quote above. Because 
it isnt possible to tell at this stage what extra work might be needed, I consider it would be 
fair and reasonable for QIC to pay the actual cost of the work up to a maximum of the higher 
end of the estimate Ms M has provided of £10,500, plus an increase of 20% for inflation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Ms Ms complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay for 
the replacement of her kitchen up to a maximum of £12,600, which is the higher end of the 
estimate she has provided at £10,500, plus an increase of 20% for inflation.
I also require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Ms M £400 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays in settling her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman