The complaint
In summary Mr G has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has settled his car insurance 
claim for an amount less than it told him he would receive. He wants to receive the full 
amount he was told would be paid and additional compensation for being given incorrect 
information. 
What happened
Mr G discussed the pre accident value (PAV) of his vehicle with Aviva. Mr G told it that he 
wanted to retain the vehicle, so a percentage was deducted from the PAV to reflect the 
salvage value, together with a deduction to take account of the policy excess. Aviva says 
that the figure it gave Mr G was £4,052.05 net of deductions. 
Mr G expressed concern to Aviva that there had been a delay in payment being discussed 
and payment being raised. Aviva agreed there had been a delay in payment. It offered to 
pay Mr G interest at the rate of 8% simple a year for the period of the delay. This amounted 
to a sum of £36.76. It also offered a further sum of £150 for the inconvenience he had been 
caused. And it agreed to reduce the salvage deduction to 20% from the original 25% it had 
deducted.
The overall revised PAV it offered was £4,442. But Aviva accepted that in a conversation 
with one of its claim handlers, Mr G was incorrectly given the gross figure (before the 
deduction of the policy excess) of £4,792. It subsequently offered to pay Mr G an additional 
£50 compensation for having given him incorrect information. Mr G didnt accept this offer 
and wanted the additional £350 that had been deducted.
Mr Gs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She explained why she 
believed Avivas offer was fair. Mr G didnt agree with her assessment, so the case has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in 
part. Ill explain why.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that in a call with Mr G, one of Avivas claims handlers 
gave him incorrect information about the amount he would be paid in respect of his claim. 
Aviva has paid Mr Gs claim. So, the crux of the issue that I have to decide, is whether it has 
treated Mr G fairly in light of its acceptance that it did give him incorrect information. And has 
DRN-1299408Mr G lost out as a result of being given incorrect information and being paid a figure that was 
less than he says he was expecting?
I do understand Mr G is disappointed that he was paid a settlement amount that was less 
than what he was told in one of his phone calls with Aviva. It says that he was given the 
correct figures in another conversation he had with it. But I havent been provided with a call 
recording that shows that. However, Aviva has provided copies of its internal notes which 
indicate Mr G was made aware the policy excess would be deducted from the settlement 
PAV, together with a percentage deduction to reflect the scrap value. So, on balance Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that Mr G was made aware that deductions would be made 
from the PAV.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr G has been disadvantaged by the incorrect 
information provided to him by Aviva. It seems to me that he should be put in the position 
that he would have been in if Aviva hadnt given him incorrect information. So, if Mr G had 
been given correct information, he would still have received the same settlement amount he 
was actually paid. 
If Aviva paid Mr G the extra £350 that he says he was expecting, then it would be putting him 
in a more advantageous position. Mr G was never entitled to this additional £350 and Im 
satisfied from everything Ive seen that Aviva has put him in the position he should have 
been in if he hadnt been given the incorrect information. And Im not persuaded from all the 
information Ive seen, that Mr G has been materially disadvantaged as a result of being 
given incorrect information.
As Ive summarised above, Aviva has during negotiations with Mr G agreed to reduce the 
percentage deduction in respect of the scrappage value. It didnt have to do that. And in 
addition to the interest payment and £150 it offered for the delays in settling his claim, its 
offered to pay Mr G a further £50 for the inconvenience and upset of being given the 
incorrect information. Its also offered to pay the compensation to Mr G whilst his complaint 
was being looked into by our service. 
Aviva has confirmed that it has now paid Mr G all of the compensation Ive summarised 
above. And I think looking at everything Aviva has paid Mr G to settle his claim and his 
complaint, it has treated him very fairly. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Aviva Insurance Limited. But as Ive also explained, it doesnt need to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman