DRN-4011595
The complaint
Mr K complains JC International Acquisition LLC (JC) have harassed him regarding a debt.
What happened
There are several parties involved in this complaint:
C  they were the original lender
JC  they are the current owners of the debt
B  they are the debt collectors appointed by JC to speak to Mr K about the debt
M  a firm of solicitors JC seems to have asked to pursue the matter with Mr K
As I understand it JC are asking Mr K to repay a debt they say he accrued with C. This 
account was defaulted, and C sold the debt to JC on 3 February 2020. JC are seemingly 
satisfied Mr K is the right person to ask to repay the debt and have at times asked B and M 
to contact Mr K over repayment of the debt.
Whenever a debt purchaser buys a debt from another company, theyre required to send 
whats called a Notice of Assignment (NOA). This tells the customer that their account has 
moved from the original lender to another company. 
Mr K disputes the debt which he raised with C as well as JC. He was also unhappy JC 
hadnt sent a NOA, and that M had started legal action against him. In a second later 
complaint he said hed raised a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to both JC and B who 
failed to comply with this. 
In their first response, JC explained C had replied to him about the debt, so they wouldnt do 
anything here. In respect of the NOA theyd asked B to send it, but B hadnt and they were 
sorry for this and said they would send one out. And, once JC realised the NOA hadnt gone 
out as expected, they recalled the debt from M before litigation took place. The NOA was 
subsequently sent 6 November 2020.
Dealing with Mr Ks second complaint JC said theyd found the call Mr K had with B on 
3 March 2020. In it, they said Mr K only asked for a copy of the credit agreement for the 
account with C  so this wouldnt be a DSAR, itd be a Consumer Credit Act request. JC 
added B told Mr K theyd need to take him through some data protection questions to action 
the request  but he refused.
JC say because Mr K refused to complete these questions, B didnt have to do anything 
further  but in good faith did forward the request for a copy of the credit agreement to them. 
They then asked C to provide the credit agreement. By 25 August 2020 B hadnt received 
the credit agreement, so they closed the account with them  but JC investigated further, 
and on 5 November 2020 they did provide the credit agreement to Mr K. JC added theyd 
since shared all the information they held about Mr K with him.
Unhappy with this Mr K asked us to look into things  explaining he was harassed for about 
nine months and his account was passed to M when it shouldnt have been.
One of our Investigators ultimately upheld the case, saying JC should pay Mr K £100 
compensation for not sending the NOA within a reasonable period of time.
JC accepted this, but Mr K didnt, he said hed accept £250 plus no more contact from JC or 
their agents. He also raised new issues about JCs contact, and about receiving all the 
documents.
Our Investigator still felt £100 was fair, the new issues were ones hed have to raise with JC 
first, and that Mr K had received all the documents hed relied on. Ultimately Mr K didnt 
accept this outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ks complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can see issues regarding C and whether the account was Mr Ks have been addressed in 
separate complaints  so I wont comment on those further here.
It seems to have been accepted the debt was Mr Ks, so at face value its reasonable for JC 
or an agent they employ to contact Mr K and ask for repayment of the debt.
In respect of the NOA it took JC nine months for this to be sent. I do understand they asked 
B to send this, but as owner of the account they are responsible for any issues that occur. 
So, here, as B didnt send this thats JCs responsibility. Generally speaking, wed expect a 
NOA to be sent quite promptly after the debt purchaser has taken over the account. So, I do 
think compensation is fair for this issue and Ill consider this at the end. 
I note this is linked to what happened with M also. At the point JC asked M to start legal 
proceedings they didnt realise the NOA hadnt been sent to Mr K. So, I think JC acted fairly 
by taking the account back from M. Again, Ill consider this at the end.
Mr K has said hes been harassed by JC and their agents. Harassment is a criminal offence, 
so that isnt something our service can rule on  and if Mr K wants a ruling on this hed need 
to take the matter to court. But, what I can do is look at whether JC and their agents contact 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Up to the point of the complaint being made, as thats all Im able to consider, Im satisfied it 
was. JC, B and M have all asked Mr K to make payments towards the account. The account 
itself was ultimately confirmed as being Mr Ks. So, I cant reasonably say theyve acted 
unfairly in asking Mr K to make payments to his own account. Ive also considered whether 
the tone of the contact was overly threatening or inappropriate  and I dont think it was.
As for the DSAR, Mr K did only ask for a copy of the credit agreement on the phone call, and 
that has since been provided. Im aware he thought hed raised a DSAR, but Im satisfied he didnt. Since then, I understand B have said a DSAR has been completed. If Mr K has 
concerns about this, he should consider contacting the Information Commissioners Office.
Other issues
Mr K has raised other concerns, such as additional contact from JC after the complaint was 
raised with our service. I can see weve explained debt collectors arent required to put 
collection activity on hold while were considering matters  though they can if they wish. 
Ultimately, if Mr K wishes to raise any new issues, hell need to raise them to JC first and 
allow them time to investigate and provide a response. This is because the rules under 
which our service operates dont allow us to consider complaints unless this has happened 
first.
Putting things right
Overall then it seems JC havent done anything wrong regarding contacting Mr K or in 
relation to the DSAR. They did delay sending out the NOA which seems to have led to 
additional issues including legal action being mentioned when that wasnt appropriate at that 
point. Our Investigator recommended £100, which JC accepted. Having considered this, I 
think its a fair amount to put matters right.
I think its important to emphasise as things stand it appears Mr K has a debt that is 
legitimately owed to JC. Id encourage him to work with JC in repaying this debt.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require JC International Acquisition LLC to pay Mr K 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman