DRN-3232309
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax UK) didnt do enough to protect 
her from losing money to a roofing and guttering firm, who she believes has acted 
fraudulently.
What happened
As the detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, I will keep my 
summary brief and will focus on the reasons for my decision. 
In December 2019, Ms D issued three cheques totalling £34,000 to a company Ill refer to as 
S to complete some work on her roof. The tradesmen started but didnt complete the work. 
Ms D complained to Halifax that it had failed to protect her against fraud. Halifax didnt 
agree. Unhappy with Halifaxs response Ms D brought her complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms D asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision.  
 
When Ms Ds complaint was passed to me, I spoke to her to explain that shed raised some 
points in response to our Investigators outcome which we do not have the power to 
consider. I also shared why I wouldnt be commenting in my decision on some of the things 
our Investigator had addressed in his response to her complaint. And I shared my thoughts 
on the aspects of her complaint that I can consider. 
Ive set out below what I explained to Ms D.
Jurisdiction
 
The rules that govern our service are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook 
and are known as the DISP rules. A requirement under these rules is that a complaint must 
be brought by an eligible complainant. Part of the requirement is that the complainant must 
have one of the listed relationships with the firm they are complaining about  and 
importantly the complaint must arise from that relationship. The most common is a 
customer relationship. But a complaint about a banks failure to invoke the banking protocol 
when the recipient of the cheque was depositing the cheque into their account wouldnt arise 
from the drawers (in this case Ms Ds) customer relationship. In essence a complaint of this 
nature is about the recipient banks failure to prevent Ms Ds loss on receipt of the payment 
into their customers account. And there isnt a relationship in DISP which allows Ms D to 
complain about someone elses account and the actions their bank took in managing that 
account where a payment to the beneficiary has been made by cheque. 
For these reasons Ms D isnt an eligible complainant under our rules in relation to this 
matter.
My thoughts on what we can consider
Under the account mandate Halifax's primary duty is to execute the payment instructions 
which Ms D asked it to pay - so here the cheques which were signed and issued by her. But 
this is not the only consideration. Banks such as Halifax also have a duty and obligations to 
protect their customers from the risk of financial losses due to fraud. With emphasis placed 
on losses due to fraud. Halifax does not have any duty or obligations to intervene in 
payments that are legitimate or to protect customers from the impact of a bad bargain. 
Simply put  if there is no fraud or scam, there is no duty or obligation on a bank to 
intervene. So the first matter for me to resolve is whether the payments in question were 
made as a result of fraud.
There is a high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. And from what Ive seen Im not 
persuaded the circumstances here meet that threshold because:   
Substandard workmanship or leaving a job incomplete does not necessarily prove 
fraud; it could easily be incompetence and a failure to provide the service paid for. In 
which case, Ms D would have a civil claim for damages in negligence and/or breach 
of contract against S.
A firm can decide its charges. It would be for the buyer to decide if they are willing to 
pay the price. Inconsistency with what other traders charge in of itself does not prove 
fraud.
At the time S were operating as a registered limited company.
Work had been satisfactorily completed on a neighbours property.
I understand scaffolding was put up; skip ordered and delivered; and work had 
commenced on the roof.
The Police have said they will not be pursuing the matter criminally due to a lack of 
evidence against S.
Both Citizens Advice and Trading Standards have also recommended that Ms D try 
to resolve the matter directly with S.
I realise that S has since been dissolved so Ms D cant pursue recovery directly. But 
again, this does not prove fraud, nor does this influence the outcome of whether I can 
fairly ask Halifax to refund the loss.
I think the evidence of the wrongdoings here would give Ms D a tortious right of action (i.e. a 
civil claim) against S, but based on the information available to me I couldnt reasonably 
conclude that it met the higher threshold of fraud. So it follows that I do not need to make a 
finding in relation to whether Halifax could and should have intervened in the context of 
suspiciously unusual or uncharacteristic payments. Such logic would only apply if Id found 
evidence that meets the threshold for fraud.
Halifax has to guard against the risk of fraud and scams. What it doesnt have to do is 
protect its customers from losses arising from misrepresentation or breach of contract where 
there would be a civil right of recovery against the merchant  here S. There may have been 
a like claim against Halifax for breach of contract or (any type of) misrepresentation if the 
goods or services were purchased via credit  due to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
So, had Ms D paid for the service using a credit card she held with Halifax, she may have 
had a like claim against them under section 75 of the CCA. Unfortunately, as the disputed 
payments here have been made by cheque, Halifax has no legal responsibility to cover 
Ms Ds losses in such circumstances.For these reasons it would not be appropriate for me to make a finding on whether Halifax 
should have intervened in payments where we have not surmounted the initial hurdle of 
concluding that something was fraud. Nor comment on matters relating to actions Ms D feels 
Halifax ought to have taken under the banking protocol. 
Ultimately, in these circumstances I cant fairly or reasonably ask Halifax to provide a refund 
of Ms Ds loss.  
 
Ms D made detailed submissions in response to what Id shared. She said she accepts that 
she doesnt have the required relationship under DISP to complain about S account or the 
depositing of the cheque. However, she questions the fairness of the DISP rules. She made 
several further comments about the merits of her complaint that I can consider, which Ill 
address below. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that I cant uphold this complaint. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Ms D, but I cannot see any basis on which I can fairly or reasonably 
instruct Halifax to refund her loss. I will explain why.
Id like to start by thanking Ms D for the time she has taken to provide detailed submissions 
in support of her complaint. I would like to assure her that Ive read and taken into account 
all the points she has raised, but my findings focus on what I think is relevant and at the 
heart of this complaint  that being, Ms Ds claim that Halifax failed to prevent her loss and 
protect her from fraud.
Ms D has not provided me with any new evidence that persuades me S was acting 
fraudulently. I note she says S started work on her roof without her permission and without 
providing a quote. And when a quote was provided it didnt contain a breakdown of all the 
work and materials needed  which it ought to have done (she refers to information obtained 
from Citizens Advice). Ms D believes S broke the law. I appreciate the point Ms D is trying to 
make, but again, this is a civil matter between her and S  it doesnt prove fraud. 
Ms D highlights an inaccuracy in my findings. She says she takes responsibility for the 
factual incorrectness of one of the reasons Ive given for why Im not persuaded the 
circumstances here meet the threshold of fraud. She explains that she assumed the work on 
her neighbours property had been done but in fact that was not the caseas theyd decided 
not to go ahead. I appreciate Ms D providing clarification on this point, but this alone doesnt 
change my findings that I cant reasonably conclude this to be a fraud or scam. She also 
makes further comments about the poor standard of the work completed by S and the 
amount theyd asked her to pay. I again understand her strength of feeling on this point, but 
shes not said anything Ive not already considered or that changes my mind. 
Ms D says the incident was recorded by the Police as a "fraud crime" which led her to use 
the word fraud freely, in the sense of cheating, deliberate deception, dishonesty, swindle or 
the informal word scam. She has questioned what the threshold for fraud is, and whether 
there is a numerical figure above which an amount of money constitutes fraud. The threshold 
for fraud is not a monetary sum  it is more about intent. And a complaint containing such 
serious allegations about fraud and dishonesty requires convincing evidence to succeed. 
And here having carefully thought about everything, I do not consider there to be sufficient 
evidence to substantiate Ms Ds claim that S were acting fraudulently or that shes been the 
victim of a scam.     
Ms Ds submissions focus heavily on the banking protocol. She says it is central to her 
complaint against Halifax as the intention of the initiative is to protect customers from fraud 
and prevent them from falling victim to a scam. I take from what Ms D has said that she 
thinks a reasonable expectation of Halifax under the banking protocol would be for it to have 
identified the payments as unusual for her account and for it to have contacted her before 
clearing the cheques. She says in the past she has been contacted about much smaller 
sums and maintains that Halifax failed to identify the irregularity of three cheques, each of 
large value, being presented (and debited from her account) across three consecutive days. 
I appreciate the point Ms D is making, but at the material time, her expectation that Halifax 
ought to have delayed the payments and contacted her to carry out further checks was not 
within the scope of the banking protocol. I say this because the banking protocol applies to 
transactions or interactions carried out in branch e.g. if Ms D had visited a branch to make a 
payment, such as a faster payment; withdraw cash; or request a bankers draft. The 
payments here were all cheques Ms D had written and given to S without any branch 
involvement. So for these reasons the banking protocol wouldnt be a relevant consideration.
But thinking more generally about whether Halifax ought to have intervened  the starting 
position is that a bank (such as Halifax) is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that its customers instruct it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque 
drawn in accordance with the terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment. Of 
course, there are occasions when we do think banks should query payments  including 
those made by cheque  because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. But those considerations are predicated on 
there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which on balance Ive concluded is not the case 
here. A bank does not have to intervene in a payment instruction its been given by its 
accountholder, and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when there is no fraud or scam. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, and Im sorry to hear about what 
has happened. But I dont think Halifax can fairly or reasonably be held liable for her losses 
in these circumstances.
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman