DRN-2898833
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him without due cause.
What happened
On 11 September 2020, Mr O received payments into his account totalling approximately 
£11,500. Some of these funds were moved to a cryptocurrency account in Mr Os name with 
a third-party cryptocurrency platform. Santander received a notification from the sending 
account, another Santander customer, that these payments were fraudulent. The sender 
alleged that the money was sent as part of a vishing scam in which they received a call 
purporting to be from Santander and gave the scammer their personal information.
Santander froze Mr Os account and got in touch to ask him for evidence and explanation of 
his entitlement to these funds. As nothing was forthcoming, Santander closed his account 
and referred Mr O to Cifas to register him on the National Fraud Database for misuse of 
facility. Their arguments for doing so were that: 
They had not been provided with a plausible explanation as to why Mr Os account 
had been used to receive and send on fraudulent funds, so they concluded that he 
was involved in the fraud;
The logins and transactions on 11 September all took place from a device Mr O had 
regularly used to access his Santander account, from an IP address he had regularly 
used, and using his facial recognition security feature on his mobile phone;
Mr O had not disputed logging in after the first fraudulent transaction had entered and 
left his account in order to transfer his own funds to his brothers account;
Santander had asked Mr O numerous times whether he had been asked to receive 
and send this money by someone else, or whether he had given someone else 
access to his account, and he said he hadnt on each occasion; and
The payments out utilised an existing mandate to a cryptocurrency account in Mr Os 
name. 
Mr O wasnt happy with what had happened. In summary, his initial explanation of events 
was that he had no idea who had sent these funds or moved them on to the cryptocurrency 
account in his name. When asked how he was unaware when he had logged on with facial 
recognition that day, he explained he had happened to transfer his own funds out of his 
account to his brothers account but didnt see the first incoming fraudulent payment. With 
regard to the cryptocurrency account, he initially said that he thought someone else had 
accessed it, converted the funds into cryptocurrency and moved the money sent to it onto 
other accounts that had nothing to do with him. 
Santander didnt accept Mr Os version of events. They said that none of what he said 
explained how someone else could have been responsible for what happened on his 
account, so they were led to conclude he was involved in the fraud himself. So, Mr O came 
to this service. Initially, he gave the same account as to what had happened. However, he 
later admitted that he had not been entirely honest about what happened. 
Mr O then told our service that an unknown third party had anonymously contacted him via 
social media. They sent him a photo that showed both his and his brothers debit cards. The 
third party then asked him if he had an account with the cryptocurrency platform, which he 
confirmed that he did. The person then threatened that if he didnt help them by completing 
some transactions that they would remove his own funds from his account. He said at this 
point the first fraudulent credit was already in his account. He explained that as he had been 
the victim of fraud previously, seeing his card made him unable to think rationally, and so he 
just did whatever he was asked by the unknown third party. He said he moved his money 
into his brothers account for safety and then continued to receive funds and instructions 
from the unknown third party. He said he did ask them where the money was coming from, 
but they had said not to worry about it. They did offer Mr O some funds for this, but they 
never said how much. Mr O said he contacted them when Santander blocked his account to 
ask them what to do, but they blocked him. He said he never would have done what he did if 
he hadnt felt threatened. 
When asked why his story had changed between the one he first gave Santander, and the 
story he subsequently told our service, Mr O said he hadnt known how to handle it and 
didnt understand the consequences of his actions. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. They didnt recommend Mr Os complaint be 
upheld. This was because they didnt think Mr Os account of what happened was plausible. 
They felt it was most likely that if someone was confronted with a stranger having a 
photograph of their card, they would have contacted their bank immediately to protect their 
funds. They also felt as he knew the funds coming into his account were not his, he should 
reasonably have contacted the bank about this too. Mr O didnt agree. He explained that this 
was having a hugely detrimental impact on his life and his well-being, and wants the Cifas 
marker to be removed. As he didnt agree, this complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am coming to the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
The type of Cifas marker that Santander asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  
relating to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, 
theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe Santander have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the money sent to Mr O was as the result of a fraud, and that he 
was deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that it would be able to escalate its 
concerns to Cifas. I do think Santander were entitled to do so, Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Mr Os account was used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. 
Another Santander customer was tricked into thinking they were speaking to Santander and  
the funds were moved into Mr Os account as the result of this fraud. And Mr O no longer 
denies knowledge of these funds entering and leaving his account  and conceded that it 
was him who sent them on to his cryptocurrency account. So the question that remains is whether Mr O was deliberately dishonest in his actions with regards to these funds. And I 
think Santander are entitled to conclude that he was indeed deliberately dishonest, because: 
Im concerned and surprised about the level of detail in Mr Os contradictory accounts 
of what happened. He went through the entire complaints process with Santander 
and came to us with a detailed version of events and even a comprehensive 
evidential submission in support of his first version of events. Whilst I appreciate he 
could have been scared when events were unravelling on 11 September, I find it 
strange that he took the time to come up with such an elaborate cover story himself if 
he were not involved in the fraud himself.  
Ive also considered the most recent version of events that Mr O has given us, and I 
simply do not find the story particularly plausible. I say this because he hasnt been 
able to provide any evidence of his conversations with the purported stranger on 
social media due to the temporary nature of the alleged messages.
Additionally, his current testimony is that the first payment was made into his account 
before he even knew what was going on. It seems unusual that an unknown third 
party would send a payment of £1,000 without being certain that they would be able 
to get Mr O to send it on. This would represent a significant risk of loss to an 
unknown third party fraudster. 
Mr O also told us that this unknown third party asked him if he had a cryptocurrency 
account of the type he did have. If this was an integral part of the unknown third 
partys plans for these fraudulent funds, it again would seem strange that they would 
forward funds to Mr O before confirming he had such an account. 
Further, Mr O has said that the third party offered him an incentive to help them, but 
that they had also made him do it under duress. It seems unusual to offer an 
incentive to someone but also threaten them to do something. This would surely just 
mean the fraudster would receive less money when they had already managed to 
persuade Mr O to do their bidding through threats. 
Mr Os current testimony is that he moved his own funds to his brothers account for 
safe keeping when he knew his account was under threat  but I am confused by this 
explanation for two reasons. Firstly, if he felt his brothers account was a safe place 
for his money then the threat would be over when he did this so I am unclear as to 
why he would have carried on doing the bidding of the unknown third party once hed 
ensured the security of his funds. But his testimony was also that he had been sent a 
photo that showed both his and his brothers cards. Its not clear whether his brother 
had other accounts  but surely if he was concerned about the security of his 
financial details, then he should have been concerned about the security of his 
brothers financial details too  which would make it strange for him to send money to 
his brother in the first place. 
Either way, I think the most likely thing for someone to do when they think their 
account security is threatened is contact the bank. Santander would have been able 
to protect his funds, and prevent transactions happening on his account. And I think 
this is the logical thing to do if large unknown credits come into your account too. 
When considering all of this, I dont think either version of events that Mr O has given us are 
what most likely happened here. I am of the opinion that it is most likely that Mr O was 
complicit in the receiving of fraudulent payments. And so, it follows that Santander have met 
the requirements to refer him to Cifas and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman