DRN-3037327
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were forced to pay an early repayment charge (ERC)
because Santander UK Plc has changed its affordability criteria and they couldnt get a self- 
certified mortgage. They want the ERC refunded. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a self-certified interest-only mortgage with Santander, borrowing
£131,000 in the early 2000s. They later took out a fixed rate mortgage product which applied
until 2 September 2021. The term was 25 years. Theyve said they have never missed a
payment and could afford the mortgage that they were on. They have no repayment vehicle
but hoped at some stage to move to a repayment mortgage. In 2018, Mr and Mrs G got a
letter telling them that their mortgage had ten years to run and enquiring about their plans to
pay off the mortgage when that time arrived. In August 2018, Mr and Mrs G contacted
Santander about this.
Mr and Mrs G say that Santander were less than happy to assist them. Santander told them
that they couldnt get a new self-certified mortgage or remortgage for the same amount
because of new affordability requirements. Santander wouldnt commit to an amount that
they could borrow on a different property and told them they needed to find a property first.
Mr and Mrs G didnt want to do this as they would have to put their house on the market and
be unsure if the deal would go through.
Mr and Mrs G decided to sell their house, buy a cheaper one as an interim step and see
what they could afford to borrow. But they had an early repayment charge (ERC) of nearly
£6,000 to pay. Mr and Mrs G felt trapped as they couldnt port their mortgage product
because of the new affordability criteria. They felt that the right thing to do was to sell their
house but shouldnt have to pay an ERC as the situation was brought about by changes in
Santanders lending criteria. Mr and Mrs G redeemed their mortgage in August 2019 and
paid the ERC.
Santander confirms that there were discussions with Mr and Mrs G in August 2018. There
was a discussion about affordability of a new mortgage. At that stage, Mr and Mrs G were
considering buying a smaller property for £190,000 and borrowing £60,000 on a repayment
basis. The adviser said that based on an income/expenditure assessment they were likely
only to get a mortgage of £35,000 but that when they found a property, they should speak to
an adviser at Santander. The bank says that under a loyal mover scheme it allows it to
consider favourably applications where customers are either borrowing the same or less. But
no application was made. Mr and Mrs G sold their property, bought a new property and then
got a mortgage elsewhere. They paid an ERC of £5,900.62.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. His view was that
as no application was made that he couldnt say that Santander had unfairly applied its
affordability checks. He also felt that Santander had applied the ERC fairly in line with the
Conversion Offer that Mr and Mrs G accepted. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and asked for a
review.
my provisional findings
I considered this complaint and issued a provisional decision as follows:
Mr and Mrs M wanted to address a problem. They had a large, for their income, interest 
only mortgage and no repayment vehicle and wanted to address that issue. Their preferred
solution was to downsize and switch to a lower repayment mortgage. At this time, they also
had a mortgage product with Santander which was subject to an ERC. Although Mr and Mrs
G could have continued with their interest only mortgage until 2029, for their peace of mind,
they wanted to deal with the issue in good time and in response to Santanders
correspondence advising them to address the issue.
Mrs G had a number of conversations with Santander advisers which Ive listened to. In
August 2018 Mrs G had a phone call with a Santander adviser. Mrs G indicated that they
were thinking of moving property and purchasing a new property for about £165,000. They
hoped to reduce the mortgage to about £60,000 and change it to repayment and extend the
term to end in nineteen years. They had a joint self-employed income of £17,000. The
adviser indicated that under Santanders affordability criteria, they would only get a mortgage
of about £35,000.
Onn 11 January 2019 Mr and Mrs G wrote to Santander and explained their position which
was framed more in terms of what they were trying to achieve by moving which was that
they had a problem being on an interest only mortgage with no repayment vehicle. They
wanted to borrow more than the £35,000 on a repayment basis to allow them to move to a
new house and pay off the mortgage so that they would have some future security that they
could retain their house.
On 4 June 2019 Mrs G again called Santander. At that stage she seems to have accepted
that Santander wouldnt lend them the money she wanted, But Mr and Mrs G had been
offered a house by a relative which they hoped to move into as an interim measure to allow
them to reassess the situation and wanted Santander to forego the ERC which it wasnt
willing to do.
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs G sold their house and bought another one without a mortgage
and paid an ERC. In December 2019, they bought another house with a mortgage of
£45,000 from another lender on a repayment basis over 19 years.
In their discussions with Santander, Mr and Mrs G wanted to know if they downsized how
much they could borrow. The advisers told Mrs G, on Santanders strict affordability criteria
what they could borrow - £35,000 - but although there was a short reference to Santanders
loyal mover scheme, there was no explanation of it or any indication there was any further
latitude beyond £35,000. Mr and Mrs G formed the view that Santander would only allow
them to borrow that amount which, in their view, wouldnt allow them to downsize to a
reasonable property. So, they sold their house, bought one as an interim measure and have
now moved to one that they can afford with a repayment mortgage of £45,000.
I found Santanders response to Mr and Mrs Gs enquiries unsatisfactory. This was an
enquiry about an end of term issue, but the advisers approached it as a porting issue without
considering what assistance Santander could provide to Mr and Mrs G in their attempts to
deal with their problem of having no repayment vehicle. The FCA encourages pro-active
involvement in such a situation and Mr and Mrs G had come with a possible solution that
seemed promising and realistic. I note that the FCA paper in 2013 approves lendersfacilitating borrowers switching to alternative payment arrangements where it is in the
customers best interests by working with the customer to overcome potential barriers such
as fees/charges.
But in their discussions with Santander, the ability of the lender to consider the customers
best interests werent discussed. Santanders advisers approached this as a customer
wishing to port mid-term not a customer wishing to port to solve an end of term problem.
Because Santander failed to recognise the issue and consider what assistance it could offer,
I intend to uphold this complaint. The question I have to ask is what Santander should have
done differently if they had properly considered Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances. Mr and Mrs
G wanted a figure from Santander that would give them an idea of what they could borrow to
downsize to another property. But Santander would only give them a figure of what they
could borrow on strict affordability grounds.
Mr and Mrs G understood from these conversations that they would only be able to borrow
£35,000 which wouldnt allow them a reasonable downsize solution. That was also my
understanding from listening to the conversations. So, Mr and Mrs G sold their property,
bought something short term and then bought a property with a mortgage of £45,000 that
they could afford.
In these particular circumstances I would have thought that Santander could have done
more within the context of what would have been in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. Mr and
Mrs G approached another lender which decided that they could afford a repayment
mortgage of £45,000. That has allowed Mr and Mrs G to downsize and reduce their
mortgage borrowing substantially. So, I would have thought that this was a figure that
Santander, in considering their best interests might well have provided to Mr and Mrs G as to
what it could lend on a new property.
I have considered whether it would be fair to require Santander to refund all or any part of
the ERC. But the difficulty I have in doing so is that Mr and Mrs G did have an opportunity to
return to Santander when they bought their first new property to apply to port the mortgage
to that property. Both advisers that I listened to advised Mrs G to return when they had an
actual property in mind. If Mrs G had returned, I cant discount the possibility that at that
stage, Santander might have provided a mortgage that was in their best interests. By not
returning and making the application to port, Mr and Mrs G deprived Santander of that
opportunity. Although Mr and Mrs G may have had reasonable complaints about the service
they got from Santander if they were to avoid the ERC that would have had at least to have
attempted to port their mortgage. As Mr and Mrs G didnt make an application to port, I
believe that the ERC was fairly charged.
As stated above, my intention is to uphold this complaint. Santanders failure to treat this as
an end of term issue and to consider Mr and Mrs Gs best interests would have caused them
distress and Santander should pay them compensation of £300 for that.
I issued my Provisional Decision and invited submissions on it from Mr and Mrs G and 
Santander. Mr and Mrs G asked me to reconsider whether part of the ERC should be 
refunded. They say they only started this process following encouragement from Santander 
and had it been handled better they would have made their application to port from the word 
go. Santander says that it accepts the Provisional Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their further submissions which Ive considered. As set out in my 
Provisional Decision I believe that this could have been handled better by Santander and 
thats why I upheld the complaint. But Mr and Mrs G were liable to pay the ERC if they 
redeemed the mortgage without porting it. As Santander did invite them to return when they 
found another property and as Mr and Mrs G didnt make an application to port, I cant fairly 
deprive Santander of the ERC which was due. I have reviewed the evidence and am of the 
view that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. So, I uphold 
this complaint and award Mr and Mrs G compensation of £300. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs G £300
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman