DRN-4212763
The complaint
Mrs J complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) failed to remove her ex-husband 
from her bank account. 
What happened
Mrs J says she received a letter in December 2022 from RBS informing her that her bank 
account was a joint account, and it required Know Your Customer documentation for her ex-
husband, although he had been removed from the account 24 years ago. Mrs J says she 
telephoned RBS to explain she was the only party to the bank account and her ex-husband 
had been removed from the account 24 years earlier and her cheque book and bank 
statements showed it was in her sole name. 
Mrs J says she was told she needed to go into the branch and fill in a form to remove his 
name, Mrs J says she took in all the relevant documentation into the branch and was told it 
would be sent to the relevant department. Mrs J says she then received a letter from RBS 
saying unless documents were received from her ex-husband a stop would be placed on the 
bank account. 
Mrs J says despite completing a form, a stop was placed on her bank account meaning she 
needed to visit the branch to make cash withdrawals and make alternative arrangements for 
her direct debits. 
Mrs J says she had to make several branch visits and numerous phone calls to RBS to 
chase up for an update and only discovered the stop on her bank account had been 
removed when she received a text message on 20 February 2023. 
Mrs J says when phoning RBS she was told the stop had been taken off the account and her 
ex-husbands name had also been removed from the bank account  but no one from RBS 
had telephoned her during this stressful time. 
Mrs J says she felt she was left with no other option other than to make alternative banking 
arrangements to protect her finances, and the whole situation has been extremely stressful 
for her. Mrs J says although RBS accepted it made a mistake, its offer of compensation of 
£500 doesnt go far enough to cover the problems she has faced here. 
RBS says given the time that has passed, it has no records of the original instructions to 
remove Mrs Js ex-husband from the bank account 24 years ago, but it doesnt doubt Mrs Js 
recollection of events. RBS says it upheld Mrs Js complaint and apologised for the poor 
customer service she had received and paid her £500 by way of apology and waived a 
pending unpaid item charge. RBS felt the compensation it paid Mrs J was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The adjudicator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
adjudicator says she was unable to establish what had happened 24 years ago given there 
was no evidence to support this. That said the adjudicator felt RBS had provided poor 
customer service here but the level of compensation it had paid Mrs J was sufficient. 
Mrs J didnt agree with the adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs J to have learned from RBS that her 
ex-husband was still party to her bank account, even though his details had been instructed 
to be removed from the bank account, 24 years earlier. 
When looking at this complaint as RBS have accepted it made mistakes here, I will consider 
if the level of compensation it paid Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mrs J has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point she has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything shes said  I have. 
I do have some sympathy with Mrs J here but theres no evidence now available, going back 
24 years, on what instructions were given about the bank account at that time. That said, 
RBS have accepted Mrs Js version of events and on balance its fair to say in all likelihood 
RBS didnt carry out those instructions fully at that time. I can see when Mrs J raised the 
issue in December 2022 the level of service provided by RBS was lacking and I can 
understand the frustration and upset this would have caused her. 
Whats important here is RBS have accepted it made a mistake and additionally agreed it 
provided poor customer service when Mrs J raised the issue back in December 2022 and 
have apologised for that and paid Mrs J £500 by way of apology for the inconvenience 
caused to her. 
While Mrs J doesnt feel the level of compensation is sufficient for what she went through, its 
worth saying its not the role of this service to penalise or punish businesses when mistakes 
are made but to see it apologises for those mistakes, corrects matters, and pays an 
appropriate level of redress - I am satisfied RBS have done that here. 
While Mrs J will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of RBS here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman