DRN-1711989
The complaint
Mr M complains he was mis-sold an income protection policy by Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr M spoke with a representative of Phoenix Life and took out an income protection 
policy on an advised basis. In the event that Mr M became incapacitated, the policy would 
have paid out a monthly benefit, starting after a waiting period of four weeks. 
Mr M is a self-employed painter and decorator. At the time he took out the policy, Mr M said 
his wife was pregnant and he wanted to protect his income if he was unable to work. 
Recently Mr M suffered an injury to his hand and wrist. He was unable to work, so he made 
a claim against his income protection policy. For the claim to be accepted, Mr M would need 
to meet at least three of the eleven tests of incapacity defined in his policy. The insurer 
declined the claim as Mr M didnt meet this criteria.  
Mr M complained to Phoenix Life about the sale of his policy. He said he was unhappy the 
policy hadnt provided the cover hed expected when he was unable to work. 
Phoenix Life responded to the complaint. It said it thought the policy itd recommended was 
suitable for Mr Ms demands and needs at the time and was affordable to him. 
Unhappy with Phoenix Lifes response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. He said he thought Mr M hadnt been 
made sufficiently aware of the definition of incapacity within his policy. And had this 
happened, he thought Mr M would most likely have purchased a different policy. He said 
Phoenix Life should refund all of the premiums Mr M had paid towards the policy, plus 8% 
simple interest. 
Mr M responded accepting the investigators view. 
Phoenix Life responded and disagreed. It said it didnt think the terms around when a claim 
could be made would have been discussed at the point of sale. But it said it didnt think this 
made a difference as it believed Mr Ms decision was price driven. And it said it thinks Mr M 
is now exercising the benefit of hindsight. 
As Phoenix Life didnt agree with the investigators view, the case had been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint is against Phoenix Life, who sold him the policy. This means Im 
considering only whether or not the sale was conducted in a proper way. Im not considering 
whether the insurer acted fairly in declining Mr Ms claim under the policy.
Phoenix Life has provided a copy of a completed financial review form from when it met with 
Mr M to discuss his policy needs. This shows that Mr M didnt have any benefits in place 
through his job as he was self-employed. It also evidenced that Mr M had £40 available to 
spend on policy premiums, and wanted to protect his income if he became unable to work 
due to illness or an accident. 
Phoenix Life recommended an income protection policy alongside separate life and critical 
illness cover. The income protection policy has an abilities test definition of incapacity. This 
means that for a claim to be paid, Mr M would need to demonstrate that an illness or injury 
prevents him from carrying out three abilities from a list within the policy. The types of 
activities listed include standing, walking, lifting and seeing. This definition of incapacity is far 
more restrictive than others on the market. And whilst there is nothing wrong with selling 
a policy with this definition of incapacity, I would expect the restrictive nature of the cover to 
be fully explained at the time of the sale. 
Ive considered the evidence Phoenix Life has provided about the sale of the policy. This 
states that the key facts document was discussed with Mr M. And looking at that document, 
the abilities test is referenced, but the list of the abilities is not included. 
In addition, Phoenix Life has said it doesnt think that the terms surrounding when a claim 
could or couldnt be made were discussed at the time of the sale. It said it believes Mr Ms 
decision was driven by price, and that he now has the benefit of hindsight. 
I think discussing the circumstances in which a claim could be successful could have made 
a difference to the decision Mr M made. I say this because Mr M had said he wanted to 
protect his income in the event that he was unable to work. And in Mr Ms profession, a more 
minor injury or illness could cause him to be unable to do his job. But would not necessarily 
mean he would meet the abilities test set out in his policy. 
The investigator asked Mr M what he would have done had the abilities test been explained 
to him when his policy was sold. He said he would have paid more for a different policy 
which provided the cover he needed. And he has since cancelled the policy.
The financial review document shows Mr M had more disposable income available at the 
time he took the policy. So I accept what Mr M has said and am persuaded that he wouldnt 
have taken this policy, had he been told about the restrictions of it, and the other options 
available. And because of this, I think Phoenix Life should pay compensation to Mr M 
equivalent to a refund of the premiums he paid towards the policy, plus interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr M compensation equivalent to the full amount of 
premiums he paid towards the policy. Plus interest at 8% simple from the date each 
premium payment was made to the date the compensation is paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman