DRN-3761067
The complaint
Miss G and Mr H complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In November 2021, around the time of Storm Arwen, bad weather caused damage to Miss G 
and Mr Hs property, affecting the hip tiles on the roof. A trampoline was also blow into the 
garage and a shed at the property. And a neighbours tree fell onto a fence, breaking a 
section of it. They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. 
QIC said a surveyor would be in contact to visit and assess the damage within seven days. 
However, this didnt happen and when Miss G and Mr H contacted QIC, they were told they 
were busy, and it might be quicker if they obtained two independent estimates for the cost of 
repairing the damage from local contractors. 
Miss G and Mr H obtained two estimates, but QIC wouldnt accept either. Instead they 
offered to settle the claim through a cash settlement or for their contractors to carry out the 
repairs. Miss G and Mr H didnt think the cash settlement was sufficient for them to have the 
repairs carried out, so they said they wanted QIC contractors to carry out the repairs.
QIC then arranged for a surveyor (S) to visit the property in January 2022 and assess the 
damage. Ss report concluded the proximate cause of the damage was due to Storm Arwen. 
It also concluded there wasnt any pre-existing or ongoing external building defects that 
werent related to the insured peril (storm) and that there would be cover under the policy. 
However, the report concluded the damage to the garage or shed wouldnt be covered as 
the damage was caused by the trampoline being unsecured. 
Based on the surveyors report, QIC initially accepted Miss G and Mr Hs claim (for the 
damage to the property roof). 
However, following a technical review by QICs in-house surveying team, who looked at the 
surveyors reports and photographs of the damage, QIC declined the claim on the grounds 
that the damage to the hip tiles was due to pre-existing issues with the mortar bedding of the 
tiles, which had broken down over a significant period of time. QIC added that the damage 
was also the result of cyclical exposure (of the mortar) to the elements, where moisture sets 
into the defect, then freezes, causing the defect to expand. Over time, this led to the gradual 
deterioration of the mortar. So, QIC declined the claim due to gradual deterioration (an 
exclusion under the policy).
Miss G and Mr H challenged QICs decision and complained. But QIC didnt uphold the 
complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim. While they accepted there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident, based on the conclusions of their in-house 
surveying team review QIC said the cause of damage to the hip tiles on the roof was failure 
of the mortar, the underlying cause was the breakdown of the mortar over a significant 
period of time. This was consistent with gradual deterioration, and QIC referred to the policy 
exclusion for gradual deterioration. As they had declined the claim for damage to the roof, 
QIC also said they wouldnt cover any damage to the fence. 
However, as Miss G and Mr H had initially been told their claim was covered under the 
policy, QIC offered them £300 in compensation for the inconvenience and the time taken to 
reach their decision (to decline the claim). 
Miss G and Mr H then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the decline 
of the claim due to gradual deterioration, saying they kept their property in good condition 
and well maintained, including the roof (and had photographs which they said showed this 
was the case). Miss G and Mr H said their roof had been leaking after the incident and the 
experience of what had happened was very stressful, affecting their mental health. They 
wanted QIC to accept their claim and for their property to be repaired by a professional 
contractor. They also wanted compensating for the length of time taken to assess the claim 
and for the stress theyd suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt acted fairly. She concluded 
there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the damage to the roof tiles and 
the fence was typical of storm damage. However, she didnt think the claim, had been fairly 
declined. Based on Ss report and photographs, she didnt think this indicated the mortar 
was in a poor state or had any visible defects. She was also more persuaded by Ss view (as 
theyd inspected the property and the damage) than by QICs in-house surveyor. She also 
thought it unfair to decline the claim for damage to the fence on the basis the claim for 
damage to the roof had been declined. To put things right, she thought QIC should assess 
the claim for damage to the roof tiles under storm damage and assess separately the 
damage to the fence. But she thought the compensation offered by QIC for inconvenience 
and delays in assessing the claim was reasonable.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the damage (the tiles being dislodged) wasnt consistent with that 
theyd expect to see in a storm. They also thought several photographs showed gaps in the 
tile mortar, and the tiles had de-bonded (from the mortar). They thought it clear from the 
photographs there was little to no mortar holding the tiles in place. So, they maintained their 
view the claim should be declined.
Miss G and Mr H responded to say they hadnt accepted QICs offer of compensation for 
inconvenience, partly because they didnt think the amount was sufficient. But also because 
they didnt want to accept it, in case that was seen to be an acceptance of QICs decline of 
their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss G and Mr H.
The main element of Miss G and Mr Hs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, 
on the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they 
werent the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the 
mortar bed of the tiles. QIC also say the damage (to the tiles) isnt consistent with that theyd 
expect from a storm.In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Miss G and Mr Hs property at the time of the incident, noting a highest 
wind speed of 65 mph. This accords with the weather report provided by QIC for the date of 
the incident, which describes the wind as Violent storm force gusts. Ive looked at the 
reports from the weather firm this service uses. For the weather station nearest to Miss G 
and Mr Hs property, on the date of the incident the report indicates a peak gust of 64 mph.  
Based on this, Ive concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from QICs surveyor show some of the hip tiles on 
the roof of Miss G and Mr Hs property have come off. There are also tiles lying on the 
ground. Photographs of the fence show damage. The description of what happened is that a 
neighbours tree fell on the fence during the bad weather. Wed expect both types of damage 
in storm conditions, particularly high winds. 
In their response to our investigators view, QIC say the damage to the tiles isnt what theyd 
expect in a storm. I disagree. Dislodged tiles are common in storm conditions, particularly 
high winds. QIC say the mortar had deteriorated over a significant period prior to the storm, 
which was the basis of their applying the gradual deterioration exclusion to decline the claim 
for damage to the tiles. But thats an issue for the third question we consider (whether the 
storm conditions were the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. It isnt whether the 
damage claimed for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. So, Ive concluded 
the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, given QIC declined the claim (for damage to the roof) on 
the grounds that the cause of the damage was the pre-existing condition of the mortar bed, 
which QIC say had deteriorated over time. Ive considered this issue carefully, together with 
the reports from S and the opinion of QICs in-house surveyor team. Ive also looked at the 
photographs of the damaged roof, particularly those specifically referred to by QIC when 
disagreeing with our investigators view. Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded 
QIC havent acted fairly in declining Miss G and Mr Hs claim (for damage to the roof). Ill set 
out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damageLoss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their in-house surveyors opinion, which states:
the damage to the hip tiles is as a result of mortar failure. The underlying cause of 
the damage was the breakdown of the hip tile bedding mortar over a significant time 
period. This damage has occurred due to the cyclical exposure of the elements and 
the resulting freeze/thaw effect. This is where moisture gets into a defect in the 
mortar and between the tile and bedding. This moisture then freezes, causing the 
defect to get bigger and the adhesion to the tile to breakdown. This repeatedly occurs 
over the years until the mortar reaches the end of its serviceable life.
QIC state the in-house surveyor adds that: the damage is consistent with gradual 
deterioration.
However, looking at the photographs of the roof, particularly those highlighted by QIC, Im 
not persuaded they show the mortar was in poor condition. The mortar around those tiles 
that werent displaced doesnt show signs of cracking or deterioration. This doesnt suggest 
to me there has been any significant breakdown of the kind set out by QICs in-house 
surveyor, as theres no indication of significant ageing or deterioration. S visited the property 
(so would have been able to see the condition of the roof) and in his report doesnt indicate 
there was any pre-existing or ongoing external building defects that werent related to the 
insured peril (storm). I think this is more persuasive evidence. 
Taking these points into account  particularly given the onus being on QIC to show the 
exclusion applies  than Im persuaded the storm conditions are, on balance, the main or 
dominant cause of the damage. 
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining Miss G and Mr Hs claim for 
damage to the roof tiles.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the other elements of the claim. On 
damage to the fence, as QIC declined the claim for the damage to the roof, they also 
declined the element of the claim relating to the fence. In their final response, QIC referred to 
the following policy exclusion, under the Storm section where it states that it doesnt cover:
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause
As Ive concluded the roof of Miss G and Mr Hs property was damaged by the storm, then I 
think damage to the fence would also fall within this definition. In this case, the damage was 
caused at the same time. And while the damage was the result of a neighbours tree falling, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest other than the tree fell because of the storm conditions (high 
winds). So, the storm conditions are the same cause under the above definition. So, Ive 
concluded QIC acted unfairly in using the exclusion to decline the claim for damage to the 
fence.
On the issue of damage to the garage and the shed, the surveyors report states the damage 
was caused by a trampoline becoming loose in the storm conditions. But it was unsecured at 
the time. Ss report states this means the damage wouldnt be covered. QICs final response makes no mention of the damage to the garage or shed. Nor does it feature explicitly in Miss 
G and Mr Hs complaint to this service. So, I havent considered this aspect further  
although Ss conclusion the damage wouldnt be covered because the trampoline was 
secured doesnt seem unreasonable (the implication being had the trampoline been secured, 
it wouldnt have come loose, or less likely to because loose).
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right. As Ive concluded QIC cant rely on the policy exclusion of gradual deterioration 
to decline the claim for damage to the roof, I think they should settle that part of the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the 
policy, as appropriate). 
Similarly, as Ive concluded QIC cant rely on the policy exclusion for damage to a fence in a 
storm unless the home was damaged at the same time and by the same cause, I think QIC 
should also settle that part of the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Thinking about the inconvenience and time taken to assess the claim, QIC offered £300 in 
compensation to Miss G and Mr H. Taking all the circumstances of the case into 
consideration, I think thats a fair and reasonable sum.
My final decision
Y For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss G and Mr Hs 
complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settles those parts of the claim for damage to the roof and the fence in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, 
as appropriate).
Pay Miss G and Mr H £300 in compensation for inconvenience (if they havent 
already paid it). 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss G and Mr H accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman