DRN-3819607
The complaint
Mr L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limiteds (Shawbrook) process to amend his 
nominated account details was inadequate and caused him delays accessing his savings 
account.   
What happened
Mr L held a savings account with Shawbrook. Deposits to and withdrawals from the account 
were made through a nominated current account. 
Mr L decided to transfer his current account to a different bank using the current account 
switch service (CASS). The account transfer was completed and under the terms of the 
CASS, his old current account was closed.
On 4 February 2022, Mr L attempted to change his nominated current account details with 
Shawbrook by accessing the online account area on Shawbrooks website. But there wasnt 
an option to do this. So, Mr L sent a secure message to Shawbrook providing his new 
account details.
Shawbrook said they couldnt electronically verify the details Mr L had provided. They asked 
him to send a colour scanned copy of his new nominated bank details and specified the 
items they could accept.
Mr L emailed a copy of the debit card for his new account. But Shawbrook couldnt accept 
this as it didnt show his new account details. They also said his email had been sent from a 
different email address to the one they held.
Mr L said hed used the correct email, but the account provider sometimes displayed his 
email in a different way. He said he wasnt able to provide any of the other information. He 
thought their process was inadequate.
Shawbrook accepted Mr Ls explanation about his email address. They confirmed their 
requirements again but said the debit card needed to show the bank account details. Mr L 
wasnt happy as previously theyd rejected his email address unnecessarily and hadnt 
specified the details his debit card needed to show. 
Mr L complained to Shawbrook on 12 March 2022. He thought their process was inadequate 
and their service was unacceptable. He said he now had an online statement available 
showing his new current account details, but theyd previously said this wasnt acceptable. 
On 28 March 2022, Shawbrook accepted Mr Ls online statement as evidence of his new 
nominated account and updated this on their system.
In response to Mr Ls complaint, Shawbrook said they needed the information to comply with 
their Anti-Money Laundering procedures and didnt agree theyd made a mistake. They said 
Mr Ls debit card didnt show the details required to verify his account. They did agree theyd 
made a mistake when they said they couldnt accept emails from Mr Ls email account. They 
apologised and offered £25 for the inconvenience and frustration caused by this.
Mr L wasnt happy with Shawbrooks response, so referred his complaint to this service. He 
said Shawbrooks actions meant he couldnt access his savings causing embarrassment 
when he couldnt pay bills on time. He wanted Shawbrook to change their processes and 
policies and thought they should pay more compensation.
Having considered all the information, our investigator didnt think Shawbrooks requirements 
were unreasonable. But our investigator did agree that Shawbrook should pay compensation 
due to the wrong information given about Mr Ls email address and thought £25 appeared 
fair and reasonable here.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said this service had previously upheld 
a similar complaint when greater compensation was paid. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, his complaint has been passed to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr 
Ls complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their policies and procedures or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ls experience with them. When considering whats fair and reasonable, 
Im required to consider relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice where they apply.
Shawbrook said their requirements were necessary to verify Mr Ls new nominated account 
details and comply with their Anti-Money Laundering (AML) procedures and obligations. 
And as they werent able to electronically verify his new account, I dont think their 
requirements here were unreasonable. I realise Mr L feels Shawbrooks processes are 
inadequate. But as Ive already said, Im unable to comment on that.
Shawbrooks list of acceptable items included a scan of Mr Ls debit card. But Mr L says they 
didnt specify this had to include his new account number and sort code. Unfortunately, his 
new card didnt show these, and Mr L thinks Shawbrook shouldve been aware of that. Every 
bank and financial institution may provide products and services in a slightly different way. 
This may mean the information included on any debit card they issue may differ. I cant 
reasonably hold Shawbrook responsible for not knowing what information was on Mr Ls 
debit card before he sent them the image. 
Shawbrook had suggested other documents that would be acceptable. But Mr L didnt have 
any of those available. I realise how frustrating it mustve been for Mr L here. But I cant 
reasonably hold Shawbrook responsible for the information available to Mr L. They wouldnt 
have any control over that. And as their requirements seem reasonable, I cant fairly say 
they made a mistake requesting what they did.
Shawbrook responded to Mr Ls requests and emails within their usual timescales. So, I 
cant reasonably say they caused any unnecessary delays. After their email to Mr L on 25 
February 2022, they heard no more from him until his complaint on 12 March 2022. 
Shawbrook acknowledged this on 17 March 2022 and agreed to accept an emailed copy of 
his online bank statement. Mr L emailed this information to Shawbrook on 27 March 2022 
and they updated his details the following day.
I accept Shawbrook had previously said they wouldnt normally be able to accept an online 
statement. It appears they made a business decision to vary this given Mr Ls personal 
circumstances. And while this wasnt what they would normally do I think that was a fair 
compromise and enabled Mr Ls request to be completed.Shawbrook agree Mr L was misinformed about their ability to accept emails from his 
particular email account. The variations in Mr Ls email address were due to his email 
account provider, not Shawbrook. But they accept this is generally an accepted issue and 
they shouldve known that. I agree Shawbrook made a mistake here and should put that 
right. Shawbrook have offered compensation of £25 which I think feels fair here. And as this 
hasnt yet been accepted or paid, I shall reflect it in my decision. 
However, I havent seen anything to suggest the email issue caused further delays as 
Shawbrook did say theyd accept Mr Ls emails in their response to him on 25 February 
2022. Mr Ls image of his debit card had been rejected anyway for legitimate reasons other 
than the email issue.
Mr L has referenced another decision issued by this service where he says an identical 
complaint was upheld and greater compensation paid. Im unable to comment on that as I 
must consider Mr Ls case on its own merits and circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed. But I dont believe Shawbrooks requirements here 
were unreasonable. They appear to enable them to comply with their AML obligations. 
Ultimately they made a business decision which enabled a solution to be found. But I shall 
uphold Mr Ls complaint with regards to the confusion and issues with accepting his emails.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part.
I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay compensation to Mr L of £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman