DRN-3991369
The complaint
Mr B complains about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his policy after his wife had an accident. He was unhappy that One 
Insurance didnt provide him with a courtesy car, didnt take into account his needs and 
didnt keep him updated. One Insurance agreed its customer service could have been better. 
It paid Mr B £100 compensation. But Mr B remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the 
customer service had been poor. But he also thought One Insurance should have provided 
Mr B with a courtesy car. He thought it should reimburse Mr B for the hire costs he incurred 
until the car was deemed to be beyond economical repair and pay him £200 further 
compensation. 
One Insurance replied that Mr Bs car was roadworthy and not beyond economical repair, so 
he wasnt due a courtesy car until his car was taken for repairs. The parts werent available, 
and Mr B had hired a replacement car. So One Insurance said it paid him cash in lieu of 
repairs and £100 compensation for this delay. It said it wasnt responsible for the lack of 
parts. One Insurance asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B is also unhappy with how One Insurance has progressed his claim and 
with its likely liability decision. But I cant consider that here as this is subject to a separate 
complaint. What I can consider here is how One Insurance handled Mr Bs claim and the 
provision of a courtesy car. 
I can see that Mr B told One Insurance when he reported the claim that he had special 
needs that required it to make adjustments to how it communicated with him. I can see that 
One Insurance noted this but continued to rely on written communication methods rather 
than phone calls, which was Mr Bs stated preference. I think this must have been very 
frustrating for Mr B. 
One Insurance agreed that it didnt keep Mr B reasonably updated about his claim. I can see 
that it instructed a repairer promptly. But I cant see that it contacted Mr B when he asked for 
updates. It was left to Mr B to chase One Insurance and try to get through to the correct 
team. Mr B has explained that this caused him further stress and frustration. 
Insurers have a responsibility under the relevant regulations to deal with claims promptly. I 
can see that there were initial delays whilst the repairer waited for ordered parts to arrive. 
And I cant reasonably hold One Insurance responsible for this delay. 
But One Insurance agrees that there were delays and errors in providing Mr B with updates 
about his claim. And it paid him £100 compensation for this. But I dont think that was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances as it seems to have been just for the delay.
I think £300 compensation for errors that persisted over months and caused Mr B significant 
issues is in keeping with our published guidance. And I think One Insurance should increase 
its payment of compensation to this amount. 
One Insurances repairer couldnt take on the work for two months after the parts had 
arrived. One Insurance then paid Mr B cash in lieu of repairs at the rate quoted by its 
repairer and Mr B accepted this. One Insurance said it decided this because:
due to not being able to get your vehicle booked in, and the hire costs we would have 
incurred, this would outweigh the costs of the repairs.
One Insurance knew that Mr B had hired a replacement car and it seems to have accepted 
that it was responsible for this cost. I cant see that it told Mr B that he would have to pay for 
the hire costs. 
Mr B said his car was undriveable due to the damage caused in the accident. I can see from 
photographs that the drivers side mirror was damaged. Mr B said his garage advised him 
not to drive the car for safety reasons. And even though One Insurances assessor thought 
the car was roadworthy, Im satisfied that Mr B reasonably thought it was unsafe to drive. 
Ive looked at the policy document and it states that a courtesy car isnt provided where the 
car is deemed to be beyond economical repair. Mr Bs car was repairable, but the repairs 
couldnt be made due to no fault of Mr B. 
In its letter to Mr B following his claim, One Insurance explained:
For any fault incident, you will be provided with a replacement courtesy vehicle for the 
duration of your repairs. Should your vehicle be deemed a total loss however, a vehicle will 
not be provided. In cases where your vehicle is no longer safe to drive, we will endeavour to 
provide a replacement vehicle as soon as possible. In the event the vehicle can be deemed 
economically correct to repair.
But I cant see that One Insurance endeavoured to provide Mr B with a replacement car 
which it said was his entitlement. This left Mr B out of pocket from the date he reported the 
claim, 17 October 2022 until the cash in lieu settlement was paid, 5 December 2012. And 
our Investigator thought One Insurance should reasonably reimburse Mr B for his hire costs 
in this time. 
One Insurance said the provision of a courtesy car was subject to availability when the car 
was taken for repairs. But I cant see that this is set out in the policys terms and conditions. 
So I cant say that this is a reason for One Insurance to decline to reimburse Mr B. 
One Insurance also said that Mr Bs car was roadworthy and so he didnt need a 
replacement car. But One Insurances letter doesnt state that the car needs to be 
unroadworthy for Mr B to be entitled to a courtesy car, but that the car is no longer safe to 
drive. 
Looking at the photographs of the damage caused to Mr Bs car, I can understand why he 
felt that it was no longer safe to drive. So I think One Insurance should reasonably reimburse 
Mr B for the hire costs he incurred from the date he reported the claim until the cash 
settlement was paid. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr B £200 further compensation (£300 in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service in handling his claim. 2. Reimburse Mr B for his hire costs from the date he reported the accident until the 
payment of the cash in lieu settlement, on provision of reasonable evidence of these 
costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman