DRN-3240334
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Hoist Finance UK Limited are pursuing her for a debt which she 
says she cleared through a debt management plan.
What happened
This complaint is about an unsecured loan from a business Ill refer to as H. The loan 
started in 2005 and defaulted in 2007. In 2008, the loan was sold to a new owner Ill refer to 
as C. Then in 2013, it was sold to Hoist  who were called Robinson Way at the time.
Mrs M had been in a debt management plan. In August 2013, her debt management 
company wrote to her to say that her plan had finished. They said theyd either settled each 
account or challenged it. They enclosed a statement.
Hoist have been pursuing Mrs M for the outstanding balance. Mrs M says this account was 
settled, whereas Hoist say it wasnt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the debt management companys correspondence showed that only some 
debts were settled, and it looked like this account was not one of them. Hoists records 
showed that this account had only received a relatively small amount of repayments and had 
not been cleared or settled. They explained that Mrs M might want to complain about her 
former debt management company, and pointed her to their administrators.
Mrs M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs M and Hoist a provisional decision on 3 December 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can understand why Mrs M might have thought this debt had been settled. The letter she 
was sent from the debt management company seems potentially misleading in that it says 
theyve resolved all her debts and her plan is complete.
But according to the attached statement, it looks like out of over £11,000 that Mrs M paid this 
debt management company, only about £1,300 was passed to her creditors. Almost £8,400 
appears to have been taken by the debt management company in fees. Apparently, the rest 
was returned to Mrs M.
Given the amount that was passed to her creditors, and given that this debt was still over 
£16,600 by the time it got sold to Hoist, its rather unsurprising that it did not get cleared. 
I can see that some of Mrs Ms accounts did get settled. And I appreciate that some of those 
accounts were also from the same original creditor (H) or the second debt owner (C), which 
may have led Mrs M to believe that this account was one of the ones that got settled. But 
having gone through the documents that Mrs M provided, none of the settled accounts seem 
to match the account details, reference number, or balance of this account. As far as I can 
see, those were all different accounts to this one.
Further, Hoist have provided a transaction history going back to 2008, as well as account 
notes going back to 2011. And both of these show that this debt was not settled in 2013 or at 
any other point. So as far as I can see, this account was not included in the accounts that 
got settled. Indeed, according to a note dated July 2013, it looks like the debt management 
company told C that this account was not included in the debt management plan. They said 
theyd speak to Mrs M about including it, but then they never got back to C. Then the debt 
management plan ended in August 2013, and then later the account was sold to Hoist. So it 
really does not look like this account got settled.
Going back to the debt management companys letter, it looks like while they did settle some 
accounts, they issued a challenge for others. Looking at the account notes here, it seems 
this is one of the debts they challenged instead of settled.
It looks like what the debt management company did was ask for certain documents from C. 
When C couldnt provide them, the debt management company then claimed the debt was 
unenforceable.
A debt being unenforceable usually just means that the debt owner cant take certain legal 
action against the customer. But the debt still exists, whether its enforceable in court or not, 
and the debts owner can still ask for repayments.
Only a court can decide whether a debt is legally enforceable or not  thats not something 
I have the power to determine. So I cant tell Mrs M whether this account is enforceable or 
not. But as above, even if this account isnt enforceable, the debt still exists, and Hoist are 
still allowed to ask Mrs M to repay it.
Mrs M pointed out that this debt wasnt on her credit file, and didnt come up in recent credit 
checks. I do understand why she thought to raise this. But her credit file only shows her last 
six years worth of history. This account is from 2005 and defaulted in 2007, so it would have 
fallen off her credit file some years ago. Thats normal. But the debt still exists and Hoist can 
still ask for payments, even if its too old to still be on her credit file.
Taking all the available evidence into account, as well as the balance of probabilities, it looks 
like this debt was not settled in 2013 or at any other point. The debts which were settled do 
not match this one. It looks like Mrs Ms debt management company only challenged the 
legal enforceability of this account, and did not clear it or settle it. 
So currently, I dont think Hoist are wrong to ask Mrs M for payments here.
Our investigator gave Mrs M the details for the administrators if Mrs M would like to complain 
about the debt management company. Ill also send her the details for charities who can give 
her free help and advice about dealing with debts.I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
31 December 2021. But neither Mrs M nor Hoist sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision above. That is: that I dont think Hoist are wrong to ask Mrs M for 
payments here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman