DRN-2245528
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the market value settlement Admiral paid for her car when she 
made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Miss L was unfortunately involved in an incident and as a result the damage 
to her car meant Admiral decided it was uneconomical to repair. So Admiral settled Miss Ls 
claim by paying the market value for her car. 
Miss L said the amount Admiral paid was too low and she couldnt buy a similar car for the 
same sum.
Admiral said it had correctly valued Miss Ls car and its settlement was in line with the policy. 
Miss L asked us to look at her complaint. She provided examples of similar cars for sale for 
more than the settlement she received. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had reached its valuation reasonably. So she didnt ask it to 
pay any more. 
Miss L didnt agree. In summary she believes she has provided evidence to show Admiral 
hasnt paid a fair settlement. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. Admirals policy says the most it will pay in the event 
of a claim is the market value of Miss Ls car at the date of loss. 
Ive looked at all of the information Miss L has provided which includes examples of similar 
cars for sale.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the most reliable 
method of valuing a car is to rely on the motor trade guides. These provide average prices 
based on likely selling prices for the same make, model, mileage, and condition as the 
vehicle being claimed for. We look at the retail transacted valuation guide as this is the 
amount Miss L - or any consumer might expect to reasonably pay from a retail garage.
We generally find advertised prices less reliable as they can vary widely and have a margin 
built in to change the price - either through negotiation or to incentivise a consumer with a 
deal or offer.
Ive checked the trade guides as at the month of loss. The trade guides ranged in values 
from £7,250 to £7,989. The market value settlement Admiral paid was £7,603. This was 
based on a lower than average mileage of 30,000 miles. Although Miss L said her car had 
travelled more than that, as it wasnt possible to check, Admiral relied on this amount as 
being just above the mileage recorded at the last MOT. 
As Admiral paid a total loss settlement within the range of the main motor trade guide 
valuations, I cant say that it acted unreasonably. I understand Miss L will be very 
disappointed with my decision. But in this case I think Admiral reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
So this means Im not asking it to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman