DRN-2034354
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc received a higher settlement figure than 
that which was required to pay off her finance agreement. She wants it to refund her the 
difference.
What happened
Mrs A tells us that in late 2018 she wished to part-exchange her existing vehicle which was 
subject of a conditional sale agreement financed by Santander. She says that the dealer, 
which Ill refer to as M, with whom the part-exchange deal was arranged paid Santander 
over £17,000 by way of settlement. Mrs A believes that there was only £16,045.03 
outstanding. And that she should receive a refund of the excess.
Santander told us that it had received the sum of £16,808.83 from M. And that this was 
sufficient to cover the outstanding balance and arrears on the account. And that there was 
no surplus.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that he was 
satisfied that Santander had received only a sum of £16,808.83 in settlement of the 
agreement. He explained that whilst different settlement figures had been produced, factors 
such as payments made after the figures were calculated would reduce the settlement 
figure.
Mrs A didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs A would be concerned if she felt she was being refused a refund of an 
overpayment following the settlement of her conditional sale agreement.
Mrs As complaint is that when she part-exchanged her vehicle, Santander received a sum 
greater than that required to settle the outstanding finance. She believes shes due a refund.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im not aware of the precise details of the part-exchange deal which Mrs A agreed with M. 
Only that it appears to have been sufficient to cover the whole of the remaining balance and 
arrears of payment.
Where a consumer chooses to settle a conditional sale agreement in advance of the due 
date, the creditor business is obliged to calculate the sum due to settle the agreement in 
accordance with the relevant legislation. Here that includes the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 (CCR).
Briefly summarised, these regulations provide for how a rebate should be calculated to 
reflect the reduced interest, due to the agreement being settled before the scheduled date.  
Santander have provided a copy of the formula  which is complex and usually calculated by 
automated means. Im satisfied its used the correct method to calculate the applicable 
rebate.
Mrs A refers to having been sent a settlement letter in November 2018 indicating that only 
the lower amount that she quoted in her complaint was due. Ive not seen this letter so I cant 
say what information it contained. 
But Ive examined the account statement notes sent to me by Santander. These show that 
various settlement figures were generated from October 2018 onwards.
On 16 November 2018, the notes record that a settlement letter was sent to Mrs A quoting a 
balance of £17,656.66.
On 26 November 2018, Mrs A paid a direct debit of £433.17 which was the last payment she 
made before the part-exchange. This left a balance of £17,223.49 outstanding on the 
agreement. 
A further settlement figure was generated on 21 December 2018. This settlement included 
the rebate of £414.66 which had been calculated in accordance with the CCRs.
When applied to the balance the net result was £16,808.83 (£17,656 66 - £433.17 - £414.66 
= £16,808.83).
And this is the figure that the account statement records as having been received from M. 
Ive seen no information to show that M paid more than the sum identified.
In summary, Im satisfied that theres insufficient information to show that Santander made 
any error in calculating the settlement figure in accordance with the regulations. And that the 
sum it received was correctly stated as £16,808.83. This was an amount which settled the 
balance in full but left no additional refund due to Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman