DRN-3126343
The complaint
Ms B says Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent to her responsibly. She says that she 
had a significant amount other borrowing and she couldnt sustainably repay the STFL loans. 
She thinks STFL shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about nine loans STFL provided to Ms B between May 2018 and 
December 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the 
table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 21/05/2018 £50 10 31/07/2018
2 02/08/2018 £150 16 11/10/2018
3 11/10/2018 £210 16 18/12/2018
4 18/12/2018 £72.50 23 15/05/2019
5 18/12/2018 £270 16 26/03/2019
6 26/03/2019 £300 16 28/06/2019
7 15/05/2019 £145 23 05/11/2019
8 28/06/2019 £360 16 29/10/2019
9 10/12/2019 £450 16 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that STFL was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 1 to 5. But he thought that the pattern of lending itself was 
harmful by loan 6. And so, he thought that STFL shouldnt have approved loans 6 to 9. 
STFL didnt agree with our adjudicator. It said it hadnt acted incorrectly when it approved 
loans 6 to 9 and it met its regulatory requirements. It said the loans were affordable for Ms B 
and there was a break in lending between loans 8 and 9. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with 
STFL. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 9 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of STFLs lending 
history with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which STFL should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
STFL should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point STFL ought to have realised Ms B was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms B had taken out six loans within 10 months. So, STFL ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms B was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loans were leaving in her finances and that Ms Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms Bs first loan was for £50 and loan 6 was for £300, which was a significant 
increase.  At this point STFL ought to have known that Ms B was not likely borrowing 
to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. Right from the start Ms B was usually provided with a new loan within a few days of 
settling a previous one. Sometimes she had more than one loan running at the same 
time.
As STFL says there was a break in lending of just over a month between loans 8 and 
9. But Ms B had been borrowing for around a year and half at this point. And the loan 
amounts had increased. So, I dont think it was reasonable for STFL to have 
assumed her circumstances had improved. 
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STFL. Loan 9 was 
taken out 19 months after Ms Bs first. And it was for a larger amount than loan 1. Ms 
B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STFL over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms B lost out because STFL continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 9 and STFL should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
STFL shouldnt have given Ms B loans 6 to 9.If STFL has sold the outstanding debts STFL should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If STFL is not able to buy the debts back then STFL should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) STFL should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) STFL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) STFL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms B having made 
overpayments then STFL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. STFL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then STFL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B. STFL shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal STFL has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Bs credit file. STFL 
does not have to remove loan 9 from Ms Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but STFL 
should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to deduct tax from this interest. STFL should give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax STFL has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman