DRN-2467603
The complaint
Ms V complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (Very) has 
charged her interest on a buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) purchase.
What happened
Ms V bought some goods through Very in 2019. To avoid interest being applied Ms V 
needed to repay the balance in full on or before 3 January 2020. As the balance wasnt paid 
in full by this date interest has been added to Ms Vs account as per the terms of the deal. 
Additionally, late payment information has been recorded on Ms Vs credit file. 
Ms V complained to Very. But it maintained that the interest had been applied correctly. 
Unhappy with the response, Ms V referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it. She found that Ms Vs payment had been made late, so she 
didn't think Very had done anything wrong. Ms V disagreed pointing out that she had tried to 
make the payment several times from November 2019 by phone and via her on-line account. 
And she provided screenshots of the attempts she made to contact Very by email about the 
problems shed experienced when trying to access her account. 
Our investigator asked Very to comment on this. But it said that the records it holds do not 
show that Ms V had attempted to access her on-line account before 6 January 2020, and 
that it had no record of receiving any calls from Ms V. And it provided evidence of the 
searches it had done to support this. It also pointed out that email address Ms V had used 
was decommissioned in 2016. 
As a result, our investigator wasnt minded to change the outcome she had initially reached. 
Unhappy with that outcome, Ms V asked for her complained to be reviewed. She said shed 
always been a loyal customer of Very and that felt she had been treated badly on this 
occasion.
So, the complaint has come to me to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has previously set out the terms of Ms Vs BNPL deal  so I wont repeat it 
all here. From what Ive seen its not in dispute that Ms Vs BNPL deal was required to be 
paid in full by 3 January 2020. Or that the payment was made late. So, in this respect Im 
satisfied the interest was applied correctly.   
But my understanding is that Ms V says she tried to make the payment before the deadline 
but was prevented from doing so. She says she experienced problems accessing her on-line 
account and, when she called Very, it couldnt trace her account. She also says that she 
sent emails but didnt get a reply. So, its because of this, Ms V says she would like Very to 
refund the interest charged and for her account to put her back in the position she would 
have been in had she been able to make the payment on time. This includes making any 
adjustments to her credit file.
So, Ive thought carefully about what both Ms V and Very have said and provided to decide if 
Ms V was prevented - by anything Very did wrong, from making her payment on time. Where 
testimony is inconsistent or contradictory as it is here, I need to decide - on the balance of 
probabilities, what I think most likely happened given the evidence that is available to me. 
Ms V has an on-line account with Very. Ms V says she was unable to access her account 
due to technical issues reported on Verys system. Very has provided an audit trail to show 
when Ms V accessed the account. These records dont indicate that Ms V attempted to 
access her account until 6 January 2020.
 
But I think its possible that Verys records wouldnt show that Ms V had tried to access her 
account if she was unable to do so due to technical issues. And I can see that Ms V did try to 
email Very. She has provided screenshots of the emails she sent in November 2019. And 
these suggest she was contacting Very as she was struggling to access her account on-line. 
So, overall, I accept that Ms V may have experienced some problems accessing her account 
on-line. But that in itself doesnt mean her complaint should be upheld. 
While its possible that there may have been occasions when Ms V couldnt gain access to 
her account. I cant say that this was a result of anything Very did wrong to the extent she 
was unable to make her payment by 3 January 2020. Systems do go wrong from time to 
time and outages do happen. But, in my experience, these tend to be intermittent events 
that only last a short period of time. In this case, Ms V had several weeks in which to pay 
into her account from when she says she first tried to do so, but Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me that Verys system wasnt working for an extended period or that Ms V 
continued to attempt to access the system in the subsequent weeks. 
I appreciate that Ms V may have been waiting for Very to reply to her emails. But given the 
evidence Very has provided, Im not persuaded that Very received her emails. Very has said 
that the email address Ms V used was decommissioned some years ago. And it has 
provided evidence of an automated bounce-back email that is sent to the sender to make 
them aware that their email has not been received. I know Ms V says she didnt receive the 
bounce-back emails. But  on balance, I think they were most likely sent. Although, its 
possible they went to Ms Vs spam email and so she may not have seen them. But I cant 
say that is Verys fault.
If Ms V didnt receive these emails, I would have expected her contact Very in an alternative 
way. And she says she did try to contact Very by phone. But Very has provided evidence to 
show the search it undertook on Ms Vs account to see if there was a record of any calls 
being received. Im satisfied that the search results dont show that it received a call from  
Ms V. 
Its of course possible that the calls werent recorded. So, Ive thought carefully about what 
Ms V says she was told in these calls. Initially she said that Very couldnt trace her account, 
she later said that she was told the balance of the account was nil. But shes also said she 
was told to make the payment in an alternative way. 
But its not in dispute that Ms V held an account with Very and that money was owed on that 
account. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Very was not holding the correct 
personal information for Ms V. So, I thinks its unlikely that Very wouldnt have been able to 
trace her account or that she was told the balance was nil. I also think its unlikely that very 
would have refused to take payment over the phone if Ms V had explained about the on-line difficulties she was experiencing. Overall, I havent seen enough to say that Very prevented 
Ms V from making a payment over the phone. 
In summary, Ms V freely entered a BNPL agreement with Very, the terms of which were 
clear. She didn't pay off the debt within the agreed time frame. So Very was entitled to 
charge the interest it has added to Ms V's account. And to record the late payment 
information on her credit file as this is a true reflection of what happened. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms V had suffered a family bereavement during these events. But for 
completeness, I can't see that Very acted unfairly or unreasonably by continuing to contact 
Ms V when further payments became due. I think this contact was made without any 
knowledge of her bereavement and to encourage Ms V to make the payments due on her 
account to avoid any further problems.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Ms V's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman