DRN-2136136
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK plc closed his accounts and won't reinstate them 
and his overdraft facilities. They were closed when HMRC, in error, obtained a bankruptcy 
order.
Mr H is also unhappy that the bank registered defaults against his name and that it didn't 
amend its own records to show that the bankruptcy order had been annulled.
What happened
Mr H had two accounts with Barclays, both with authorised overdraft facilities; the combined 
overdraft debt was around £16,000.
Mr H also owed money to HMRC. It started bankruptcy proceedings against him and 
obtained a bankruptcy order in February 2017. The bank was told about the bankruptcy and 
closed Mr Hs accounts and wrote off the debts on them. It recorded defaults. However, 
HMRC had in fact agreed a payment arrangement with Mr H; due to an internal error, that  
hadnt been communicated to those dealing with the bankruptcy petition. Once that error 
came to light, the bankruptcy was annulled and the bank told of the mistake.
Mr H asked Barclays to reinstate the accounts, with their previous overdraft facilities, and to 
remove the default markers. He thought it would be fair if Barclays were, in effect, to return 
to the banking relationship they had before HMRCs mistake.
Barclays didnt agree to Mr Hs request, but instead sought from him details of his income 
and expenditure so it could decide how to proceed. That meant it was treating him much as 
it would have done a new customer. The bank said too that, without that information, it 
wouldnt be able to come to a payment arrangement. It did, however, offer Mr H a basic bank 
account.
Mr H referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. Initially, 
he reached the view that Barclays had treated Mr H fairly. The error that led to the account 
closure had been HMRCs, not the banks. But he later changed that view and indicated that 
he thought the bank should reinstate the accounts, with the overdrafts, and then consider 
repayment options with Mr H.
Barclays didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. I did that and, 
because I didnt consider that Barclays had acted unfairly, I issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that a bankruptcy order had been made against Mr H because of an administrative 
error which was nothing to do with him or the bank. However, I thought that Barclays had 
been entitled to assume that the order had been correctly made and to have acted 
accordingly. That meant that it was reasonable for the bank to close Mr Hs accounts. 
I also considered what Barclays should have done when it found out that the bankruptcy 
order had been made in error and had been annulled as a result. Mr H thought he should be 
placed in the position in which he would have been had the bankruptcy order not been 
made; that is, his accounts should be reinstated. I could see why he thought that but didnt 
agree that the bank was obliged to reopen the accounts. I noted that Barclays had been 
entitled to close Mr Hs accounts in any event  whether or not a bankruptcy order had been 
made. 
I noted too that Barclays was able to exercise its own commercial judgment in deciding 
whether to continue to provide Mr H with banking facilities. It could take his financial position 
into account  including the overdrafts.
Mr H was unhappy too that the bank had registered information with credit reference 
agencies in respect of the overdrafts. They were however repayable on demand and, since 
the bank had asked for payment but not received it, they were debts owed to Barclays. I 
considered that the banks actions had been reasonable. 
Mr H had said that hed been told that there was still a bankruptcy marker against his name, 
even after the order had been annulled. The banks records didnt appear to support that, 
however, and I thought it likely that Mr H was given the impression that they were 
inaccurate. I didnt consider however that this made any real difference to Mr Hs overall 
position. 
Barclays accepted my provisional conclusions, but Mr H indicated that he didnt and that he 
would make further submissions. He was given an additional two months (that is, three 
months in total) in which to submit further evidence and arguments, but hasnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, neither party has submitted any further evidence or arguments following 
my provisional decision. There is, therefore, no good reason for me to change my overall 
conclusions about Mr Hs complaint or how it should be resolved.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman