DRN-3939656
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because he 
was stopped by police who said he didnt have insurance and when he called Admiral from 
the side of the road it initially found his cover but then said it was for a different car.
What happened
Mr F was stopped by police in November 2022. He was told his car, a Ford, wasnt insured. 
Mr F said that wasnt correct and called Admiral. He gave Admiral his registration and it 
found his records. But told him the car on cover was a Vauxhall. Mr F said he had changed 
the car in 2020, just prior to renewal with the Vauxhall having been sold. Admiral said it 
processed a change of policy in early March 2020, for cover up to renewal, having also told 
Mr F he would need to call it back to change the policy details for renewal. Admiral said Mr F 
had not called it back so the policy at renewal had reverted to cover for the Vauxhall and had 
renewed as such each year since, with Mr F being sent policy documents. An amendment 
was made during the phone call in November 2022 to ensure the Ford was then covered.
Mr F complained to Admiral. He said he had changed the cover for his car, telling Admiral 
the Vauxhall had been sold. He said he hadnt received his renewal documents because 
hed told Admiral hed changed his email address but this hadnt been updated. He felt 
Admiral must have been covering the Ford because it had found his details when he gave 
that car registration to it and initially told him he was covered. He said the payment schedule 
he had been sent, when the change to the Ford had initially gone through in 2020, did not 
say it was only applicable until renewal.
Our Investigator noted that policy documents Admiral had sent to Mr F in the years since the 
temporary change was implemented, showed it was insuring the Vauxhall, not the Ford. She 
didnt note any sign of Mr F having tried to change his contact details with Admiral. She felt it 
had been up to him to make sure he was properly covered. Also that it wasnt unreasonable 
that, having covered the Ford for a time, the call handler in November 2022 was able to find 
Mr Fs cover with that detail. Our Investigator didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. 
So she didnt uphold the complaint.
However, our Investigator asked Admiral, as it had not been insuring the car Mr F owned in 
the years since renewal in 2020, if it would refund the policy premiums to him. Admiral said 
that if Mr F provided it detail of the Vauxhall having been sold, it would refund the premiums 
it had taken to Mr F. The offer was put to Mr F but he did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do think Admirals offer is fair and reasonable. Admiral does not have 
access to a recording of the call Mr F had with it in March 2020. But its call notes show it 
clearly told Mr F that a short-term change of vehicle, up to renewal, had been done. And that 
he would have to call it back if he wanted the car on the renewal to be changed. Mr F does 
not dispute that he did not call Admiral back. Rather he recalls that the change was put 
through for renewal. Unfortunately for Mr F, the available evidence doesnt support this.
Since the change of vehicle in 2020, Mr Fs policy has renewed. And when he was stopped 
by police in November 2022, the policy showed the car on the cover was the Vauxhall. The 
policy documents show the Vauxhall was the car being covered by Admiral. I know Mr F 
says he did not receive these, but I havent seen evidence, beyond his word, that he tried to 
change his email address with Admiral and it didnt action this. But Mr F clearly knew there 
was a policy for him, so I would have thought that if he had not received renewal documents 
he would have queried this with Admiral, at least in relation to the price for cover if nothing 
else. I note Mr F did receive the payment schedule sent when the cover was temporarily 
arranged for the Ford. The payment schedule wouldnt show the date of cover on it. But it 
was sent with other documents at that time which did show that cover was in place for the 
Ford until 26 March 2020 only.
Given the details for the Ford were on Admirals system, it doesnt surprise me that Admiral 
was able to find Mr Fs policy, covering the Vauxhall, with those details. But I can understand 
why, when having been pulled over by police and in a stressful situation, Mr F thought this 
meant Admiral had initially acknowledged to him that the Ford was covered. 
Mr F says he sold the Vauxhall, presumably around March 2020. That being the case I think 
it is fair that Admiral reimburses his premiums taken from him for cover for that car in the 
years since it was sold. If Mr F wants Admiral to reimburse his outlay in this respect he 
should send it proof of the Vauxhalls sale  that doesnt necessarily mean he has to show 
he received money for it. I think that reasonably sets things right, but as Im satisfied that the 
problem  the Vauxhall having remained on cover, rather than cover being in place for the 
Ford  was not caused by Admiral, I wont require it to add interest to the  reimbursed sum. 
Or to pay Mr F any compensation.
Putting things right
I require Admiral, upon proof being provided by Mr F of the sale of the Vauxhall previously 
covered by it, to reimburse the premiums taken for the cover for that car, from the date it was 
sold until the Ford was placed on cover in November 2022.
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman