DRN-1564472
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank plc has decided to stop providing 
debit cards on their savings accounts. They are also unhappy they didnt receive notification 
of this before their existing cards expired.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have savings accounts with NatWest, and these previously came with a debit 
card.
In 2019 NatWest made the decision to stop providing debit cards on its savings accounts.
The debit cards Mr and Mrs B held for their savings account expired in May 2019. In July 
2019 they contacted NatWest to request new cards. It was at that point that Mr and Mrs B 
found out new cards would not be provided.
Mr and Mrs B complained to NatWest. They said that they were unhappy with the decision 
as it would make it more difficult for them to access their accounts. They highlighted delays 
theyd experienced in branch to show this. And they said the decision particularly affected 
them due to their age. They were also unhappy that they had not been told before calling 
NatWest about the change. And they said that NatWests own staff hadnt known the details 
of the decision and had given conflicting information, including saying that the decision was 
taken in October 2018. They also said that the message displayed at ATMs following this 
decision was misleading.
NatWest said that it had made a commercial decision to stop providing debit cards on 
savings accounts and it applied to all customers  not just Mr and Mrs B. It acknowledged 
however that Mr and Mrs B may not have been notified about this in writing before theyd 
called. It also apologised for any poor service or confusion when Mr and Mrs B initially called 
and offered £20 for the upset this caused. NatWest also apologised for the frustration 
regarding wait times in branch. It confirmed it had provided feedback to the relevant 
departments about this and taken on board the comments about the message displayed by 
ATMs. 
Mr and Mrs B asked our service to consider the complaint. An investigator looked into things. 
They felt NatWest was entitled to decide to withdraw debit cards for savings accounts and 
said that we couldnt ask it to reverse this decision. He acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B 
hadnt been notified of the change before their cards expired and understood why they 
wouldve been upset by this. But overall, he felt that as NatWest was entitled to make the 
change, he didnt think it needed to do anything else to put things right.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has explained that it has taken the commercial decision to stop providing debit 
cards on savings accounts. Businesses have the right to determine their own internal 
processes, how they operate accounts and the services they provide. Our service is not a 
regulator, so it is not our role to tell a business how it must run the accounts or services it 
offers.
NatWest has confirmed that this change has been applied to all customers holding these 
accounts. It has said that there are alternative ways to access the account and these are 
available to all customers. They can be accessed online (which Mr and Mrs B said they 
arent comfortable doing), in branch (which Mr and Mrs B say takes unnecessarily long) and 
using the debit card attached to their current account to access their savings at an ATM 
(which Mr and Mrs B say is slower and does not provide the same range of options as they 
previously had). 
Mr and Mrs B have explained why they preferred being able to use a debit card for their 
savings over the alternatives now available. But although this may be their preference, they 
are able to use the methods of access now provided. So, they havent been prevented from 
accessing their account.
So overall, I cant reasonably say NatWest has done anything wrong by taking the decision 
to stop providing debit cards and I dont think it has acted unfairly or discriminated against Mr 
and Mrs B in doing so. 
Turning to how Mr and Mrs B were made aware of this and the confusion when they spoke 
to NatWest, I think this couldve been handled better. 
Mr and Mrs B have said, when they called NatWest in July 2019, they were unaware of the 
decision taken. And were told this decision was taken in October 2018.The information 
NatWest has sent us indicates the decision to remove debit cards from savings accounts 
was taken in 2019. And that it was writing to customers over the period of a few months, in 
phases, to explain this. So, it isnt clear why October 2018 was mentioned when Mr and 
Mrs B spoke to NatWest as this appears to be incorrect based on what Ive seen. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs debit cards expired in May 2019. They didnt find out 
that these would not be replaced until they called NatWest in July 2019. And they didnt 
receive a letter confirming this until August 2019  as they were in one of the groups of 
people NatWest was writing to later. With that in mind, when the decision was made largely 
doesnt matter as, regardless, Mr and Mrs R werent made aware of it before their cards 
expired or they called to query.
I agree it would have been better if they had been told sooner than they were. And it is 
unfortunate that this didnt happen. But this still doesnt mean NatWest was wrong to make 
the decision to remove debit cards. And it is that decision which Mr and Mrs R are ultimately 
unhappy with. So, while it wouldve been better if theyd been informed sooner and if there 
was less confusion when they called to discuss this, I think they would still have been 
unhappy whenever they were told about this. With that in mind, I think the offer of £20 
NatWest has made for the upset caused by this is fair.
NatWest has apologised to Mr and Mrs B for the delays they experienced in branch. I think 
this is fair. It has explained wait times are dependent on demand, which isnt unreasonable. 
And it says it has taken on board their comments about the message displayed by ATMs 
when attempting to use their card  given that the service they were accessing was no 
longer available. Again, I think this is fair as its ultimately NatWests decision around how it 
operates this service. So, taking everything into account, while I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, I think 
NatWest has acted reasonably and the offer it has made to put things right is fair. So, I dont 
think their complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £20 to settle the complaint 
which I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, National Westminster Bank Plc should 
pay Mr and Mrs B the £20 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman