DRN-4050790
The complaint
Mr S complains about changes that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) made to its fee 
structure, to use its dealing service. In particular, he is unhappy that he previously paid a fee 
per trade but is now asked to pay an annual fee. 
What happened
Mr S has a trading account with HSDL. He says he was an infrequent trader and previously 
paid a fee per trade he placed. 
In January 2021, HSDL started informing customers like Mr S that it was changing its fee 
structure. It explained that from 1 April 2021, an annual fee would be charged. Other 
changes included removing an Individual Savings Account (ISA) fee and reducing the 
commission charged on deals were also explained. 
HSDL say they gave options including a free transfer to another provider, selling shares 
(potentially at a reduced fee) or certifying the shares (at no cost). HSDL say that Mr S didnt 
take up any of these options. 
Following a request from HSDL for outstanding fees, Mr S complained. He said that the fee 
changes were unfair and he was unhappy that he hadnt received confirmation or a response 
to his complaint. 
HSDL responded to say that they were entitled to make a commercial decision such as 
changing the fee it charged. They said that this had been communicated to Mr S and that 
requests for outstanding fees were reasonable. 
Our investigator looked into it and he thought HSDL had acted fairly. He said that they were 
entitled to change their fees and believed they had sent confirmation of this to Mr S. 
Mr S remained unhappy. Amongst points, he said that the HSDL approach wasnt customer 
centric and that their customer service wasnt acceptable. He said that their route to take the 
fee was unfair. 
As no agreement was reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. I will explain why. 
Firstly, I do empathise with Mr S. He had entered into an arrangement he was happy with 
and was seemingly happy with the service he was receiving. Only for a change to the 
charging structure that would negatively impact him as an infrequent trader. 
However, HSDL are entitled to make a commercial decision to change the fee they charge 
and how they structure it. This is also allowed through the terms and conditions of the 
account that Mr S entered into. Further, I think they made this change fairly. Giving 
customers alternative options (at reduced costs) and giving approximately three months to 
decide what they would like to do. 
HSDL have provided screenshots to show that these details were communicated to 
customers and that it was sent to Mr S. I am satisfied that they did what they needed to, to 
make this change and what his options were, clear to him. 
Mr S has also stated he is unhappy by the methods used by HSDL to collect the outstanding 
administration fee on his account. HSDL have explained that cash in the account is used 
primarily if no payment is made. HSDL have also shown that they are entitled through the 
conditions of the account, to then take the payment from a linked bank account or (as I 
believe has happened with Mr S) through the sale of shares. Whilst I appreciate that Mr S 
feels this is heavy-handed and unfair, I believe it is in line with the conditions of the account 
and Mr S was given sufficient notice to make the payment through other means. Mr S has 
said he has made it clear to HSDL that he wished to transfer his shares, however I havent 
seen any evidence to conclude this was the case. 
I understand Mr S is also unhappy with the service he received when the complaint was 
raised. Im afraid complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity so I cant comment on 
these aspects of his complaint. For the reasons explained above, I dont think HSDL have 
done anything wrong and I think they have acted fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons stated above, is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman