DRN-3102099
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Plutusgroup Ltd, now known as Gate Capital Group Ltd (Gate Capital) 
gave her unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits from a deferred annuity pension into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Mrs A had a deferred annuity pension arising from a period of previous employment. She 
sought retirement planning advice from Gate Capital in 2015 as she wanted to establish if 
the value of her pension could be improved upon, especially when it came to the death 
benefits included.
Gate Capital completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs As circumstances and 
objectives. Those included:
She was aged 48, married with children.
She was in good health.
She had her own limited company earning a gross salary of £60,000 a year (although 
other figures are mentioned elsewhere in the documentation). Her husbands basic 
salary was more than that.
She owned her own home in relation to which she had an offset mortgage of 
£90,000. She paid £225 a month towards that.
She had savings of £15,000 in an ISA and shares worth £2,000. She also had joint 
savings of £18,000 with her husband.
Mrs A was expecting to receive a sizeable inheritance imminently.
Her state pension age was 67, although she was hoping to retire at age 65.
Mrs As deferred annuity pension entitled her to various guaranteed benefits. Its 
transfer value was around £136,000. She had no other retirement provision.
Gate Capital carried out an assessment of Mrs As attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be balanced. 
In a suitability report it set out various options that were open to Mrs A. Those included:
Leaving her pension where it was  it said that would usually be considered the best 
option and tends to be our default position. But it didnt think that was suitable for 
Mrs As objectives. 
Transferring to a personal pension plan  Gate Capital noted that it was the eventual 
value of the fund that would provide retirement benefits (subject to things such as 
how well the fund performs) and that Mrs A would lose any guarantees available 
within her existing scheme. But this route allowed control over investment choices 
and in the event of her death the full fund is paid as a lump sum or as a successor 
drawdown to whoever she nominated. It felt this best allowed control over Mrs As 
funds with the potential for future growth whilst also providing a benefit for family 
members.
Transfer to a Section 32 plan or a new employers scheme were not considered 
viable options.
Gate Capital said a critical yield of 5.4% was needed to match the benefits Mrs A would be 
giving up. It recommended Mrs A transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP, which was to be 
managed by a firm Ill call B. This was to be managed under Bs securities discretionary 
fund management (DFM) service. It felt that the wide range of funds, and access to a 
discretionary fund manager in particular, would be advantageous.
The suitability report said the recommendation met the stated objectives of:
Ensuring that, in the event of her death, the benefits would pass to Mrs As husband 
then ultimately to her children, allowing them flexibility and control over how they 
were used.
Providing greater control and opportunity for investment with the potential opportunity 
to outperform the guaranteed income from the current plan.
It felt this type of investment suited Mrs As attitude to risk and noted that she had access to 
alternative sources of retirement income provided by her husband. That said, it also noted 
that Mrs A would lose any guarantees applicable to her benefits by transferring.
Mrs A says she lost significant amounts of money as B had since collapsed. She complained 
to Gate Capital in 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice, also pointing out that 
unregulated assets were held within the SIPP. She also questioned whether Gate Capitals 
recommendation fitted her risk profile at the time and why Gate Capital chose B and the 
DFM model as opposed to a mainstream provider. 
Gate Capital didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said:
It had fully explored her circumstances and objectives and what could best achieve 
them. 
At the time, B was FCA regulated, and was chosen because it was an award 
winning DFM. Due diligence was carried out first. B could offer investments across 
the risk scale including balanced portfolios and Mrs A was given a brochure before 
she decided to invest. At the time, B was following an investment strategy of buying 
ETFs (exchange traded funds) on behalf of investors and also had a range of 
recognised regulated investments. Capital preservation was key to Bs strategy.
As Mrs A agreed to invest on a fully discretionary basis, Gate Capital had no say or 
influence in the investments chosen. 
It was satisfied B offered a competitive pricing model and a bespoke portfolio 
construction service suited to the clients risk profile. All risks were explained before a 
transfer took place and there was a cooling off period of 30 days if Mrs A had 
changed her mind.
Gate Capital said all of the above was explained in its suitability report, which Mrs A 
confirmed shed read and understood. With hindsight, B hadnt performed well, but it was in 
full control of Mrs As investments. Mrs A was in a fully informed position at the time of the 
advice. In conclusion, it felt the advice for Mrs A to transfer her pension into a SIPP was 
justified and in line with her wishes and objectives. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Gate Capital pay compensation. Amongst other things the investigator said:
The calculations done at the time showed that the new plan probably wasnt capable 
of exceeding the benefits that Mrs A gave up in the existing scheme. 
She didnt believe Mrs As circumstances and investment experience were such to 
suggest she needed access to the wider choice of funds mentioned, or a DFM. And even if Mrs A had an appetite for higher risk, it was unlikely shed be able to achieve 
the investment growth needed to outperform her existing pension. 
As it was her only pension provision, the investigator didnt think Mrs A had the 
capacity for loss with her pension that Gate Capital suggested, or significant savings 
to fall back on.
The investigator also recommended that Gate Capital pay Mrs A £300 compensation 
in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused in losing valuable benefits from 
her pension scheme. 
Gate Capital disagreed, saying it wanted an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh. So, 
its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mrs A clearly wanted to explore whether her pension benefits could be improved upon if she 
transferred out of her existing scheme into another pension elsewhere. According to what 
was recorded in the suitability report, she was particularly interested in having greater 
flexibility and control over the death benefits. And, apparently, that was of greater 
importance to her than her future income.
Gate Capitals role here wasnt to simply do what Mrs A wanted. It needed to make sure it 
explored and, where necessary, tested her objectives to satisfy itself that they were viable. I 
say that in particular because the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) makes 
clear in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a defined benefit, or another scheme with safeguarded benefits (as Mrs As 
pension was), is that it is unsuitable. So, Gate Capital should only have considered a 
transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mrs As best interests overall (COBS 
19.1.6). In other words, I think it needed to show that there were fairly compelling reasons for 
the transfer to go ahead taking account of Mrs As circumstances and objectives. 
For the reasons Ill now go on to explain, I dont think Gate Capital has done enough to 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs As best interests overall. And I think its advice 
should have been for Mrs A not to transfer her deferred annuity pension. As it didnt do that, 
it follows that I think its advice was unsuitable. So, Im going to uphold this complaint. My 
detailed reasoning is set out below.
Death benefits
Mrs A said she wanted her beneficiaries to have control over how they accessed and used 
the benefits according to their circumstances at the time. The objective in itself isnt an 
unusual one. And, as far as Im aware, the same flexibility probably wouldnt have applied in 
the deferred annuity pension. So, in that sense, I can see why having greater flexibility might 
have been an attractive prospect to Mrs A. 
But, whilst I do appreciate that death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs A might 
have thought that alone was a good enough reason to transfer her existing scheme to a 
personal pension, the priority here was for Gate Capital to advise Mrs A about what was best for her retirement provision. A pension is savings for retirement and is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. 
In these circumstances, I think Gate Capital needed to really explore and understand this 
objective. Theres lots of details about Mrs As circumstances and financial position 
recorded. Its evident from the suitability report that Mrs A wasnt prepared to set aside any 
of her disposable income in respect of further needs or shortfalls in retirement planning. And, 
she may well have felt that all necessary provision should come from the same pension pot -
including for her dependents. According to the suitability report, Mrs A had also indicated 
that flexible death benefits was more of a priority than future income (although thats noted 
as still an important consideration). But I dont think that automatically means she was 
prepared to accept a potentially lower retirement income in exchange for higher or more 
flexible death benefits. And had things been discussed in those really clear terms, Mrs A 
may well have taken a different view. Im not persuaded they were.
In any event, I also think the death benefits attached to the existing scheme were 
underplayed. Mrs A was married with children and so the spousal pension provided by the 
existing scheme wouldve been useful in particular to Mrs As husband in the event that she 
predeceased him. Gate Capital did say that this benefit wouldnt exist if Mrs A transferred 
her existing pension and that the guaranteed increases to all her benefits would stop. There 
was also an alternative death benefit payable in her existing scheme if nobody qualified for a 
dependents benefit. However, I think Gate Capital could have done more to make the value 
of these benefits really clear. I say that because COBS 19.1.7 A said that the adviser 
needed to explain to the client the extent to which the benefits may fall short of replicating 
those in the existing scheme. It went on to say that the adviser should also be clear about 
the investment risk to which the client is exposed until an annuity is bought with the 
proceeds of a personal pension. I think Gate Capital could specifically have said that the 
spousal benefit, which was guaranteed, was also not dependent on investment performance. 
Whereas the sum that remained in a personal pension on death was. 
Gate Capital did say that it was the eventual value of Mrs As fund that would provide for her 
retirement (and that this was dependant on things such as how well the fund performs and 
the effect of charges). However, its entirely possible that, if Mrs A lives a long life, or there 
was a period of poor investment performance, there may not be a large sum  if indeed any 
sum  left to pass on to her family members as she might have hoped. Again, Id have 
expected Gate Capital to explain things in this really clear way, so that Mrs A was able to 
make a balanced and well-informed decision. Ive seen no evidence it did so. In fact, 
elsewhere in the suitability report it says that in the event of Mrs As death the full fund is 
paid as a lump sum. It also suggested that leaving Mrs As pension where it was wouldnt 
provide the maximum available death benefit for her beneficiaries in the event of her death. 
Given her objective, Mrs A may have thought that was in her best interests. But, given the 
loss of safeguarded benefits with no guarantee of a better outcome, I dont think it was.
In any event, Mrs A was also in good health at the time, so I dont think different death 
benefits justified the likely decrease in retirement benefits for Mrs A. 
Flexibility
Having greater flexibility surrounding an investment is also a fairly common objective 
recorded by advising firms. But, Mrs A was aged 48 and she wasnt planning to retire until 
age 65. Theres nothing to indicate that she was looking to access her pension any earlier or 
needed to rely on tax-free cash. In fact, all of the information recorded points to the fact that 
she (and jointly with her husband) was financially very stable. According to the suitability 
report, Mrs A also expected to benefit from a sizeable inheritance imminently.Given all of these factors, and bearing in mind what Ive said earlier about the initial 
presumption of unsuitability, I think a key question that Gate Capital needed to ask Mrs A 
was why she needed to do anything at all about her pension at that time. I say that also 
bearing in mind that this was apparently Mrs As only pension provision. Id have thought 
therefore that having a secure and guaranteed income in retirement would be seen as a 
positive thing. However, the suitability report suggests that Mrs A was potentially willing to 
sacrifice a guaranteed income for life in exchange for having control over her investments 
and achieving investment growth. Again, Gate Capital needed to understand what this 
meant in the context of Mrs As circumstances and investment experience. And it needed to 
satisfy itself that this was a viable objective in light of those factors. 
Mrs A indicated shed probably be looking for a plan that gave her more flexibility (as a result 
of pension freedoms) when she started to take her benefits. I can certainly see why shed 
want to be thinking about all possible options at the right time. But bearing in mind that Mrs A 
was about 17 years away from her preferred retirement age, I think it would have been quite 
difficult to say what the best way for her to access her pension would be at that point. And I 
think that any decisions Mrs A took in relation to her impending inheritance may well have 
had a bearing on any decisions she later took surrounding her pension. 
Shed also indicated that she was looking to retire at age 65 without penalty - something she 
would have been able to do if shed stayed within the existing pension. So, I think thats 
another factor in favour of leaving her pension where it was. Again, Gate Capital should 
have pointed this out to Mrs A.
Financial viability 
Seeking an investment with the potential to outperform a guaranteed income from an 
existing scheme isnt necessarily unusual. But Gate Capital had to also consider this 
objective in the context of Mrs As experience as an investor, her circumstances and her 
attitude to risk.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
According to the transfer value analysis report (TVAS) the critical yield required to match Mrs 
As benefits at the normal scheme retirement age of 65 was 5.4% if she took a full pension 
and 4.4% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. Gate Capital thought an investor 
with Mrs As risk profile could realistically achieve growth of 5.76% in the longer term. 
This compares with the discount rate of 4.6% per year for around 17 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs As 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Its possible, based on the figures 
Ive referred to, that growth of a similar level to the discount rate could be achieved if Mrs A 
were to take a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension. But it seems unlikely that a 
new plan could outperform the level of pension within the existing scheme so as to secure a 
greater level of income for Mrs A in retirement. And as Ive said, theres no firm evidence that 
Mrs A would require the maximum TFC in retirement in any event. And there would be little point in Mrs A giving up the guarantees available to her through her 
existing pension only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Indeed, the regulator has stated that a consumer should not be given advice to transfer only 
for things to stand still. I think thats particularly relevant in Mrs As case, as one of her key 
objectives was to see whether transferring her pension would give it the opportunity to 
outperform her existing scheme. Based on the figures Ive mentioned, I think there was little 
likelihood of that happening. And I think there was a real risk of Mrs A receiving benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than her existing scheme at retirement - particularly when 
things such as investment risk were factored in. And I think this is something that Gate 
Capital ought reasonably to have foreseen and warned Mrs A about. 
Theres no suggestion that Mrs A needed a variable income throughout her retirement. 
According to the suitability report, Mrs A and her husband were expecting to need a 
retirement income of £36,000 a year, of which Mrs As husbands pension would make up 
about £28,000. Mrs As existing pension expected to give her an income of £9,313 a year 
and so comfortably made up the remainder. So, Im satisfied that Mrs A could have met her 
income needs in retirement through the existing pension at 65. Again, a factor in favour of 
remaining within the scheme, especially given the other reasons Ive mentioned. So, for the 
reasons given above, I dont think that Gate Capitals advice for Mrs A to transfer out of her 
existing scheme was suitable.
The use of a DFM
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of her existing scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mrs A, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mrs A should have been advised to remain in 
the scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage her funds if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs A at the time. 
But, as I said earlier, Gate Capital wasnt there to just transact what Mrs A might have 
thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs A needed and 
recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs A was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer at the time and outweigh this. So, I think Gate Capital shouldve 
advised Mrs A to remain in her existing pension.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs A would've gone ahead anyway, against Gate 
Capitals advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs A wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the existing scheme against advice. I say this because Mrs A 
appears to have been a relatively inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and 
this pension was her only retirement provision. So, if Gate Capital had provided her with 
clear advice against transferring out of the existing scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her 
best interests to do so, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mrs As concerns about her death benefits were so great that 
she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise 
she had sought, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. And had it 
explained things along the lines I suggested earlier (whilst also clearly explaining that the full pension pot was unlikely to be available to the family as death benefits in any event) I think 
that wouldve carried significant weight. And in those circumstances, I dont think Mrs A 
would have insisted on transferring out of the existing pension.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Gate Capital to put Mrs A as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. This redress methodology would also apply to Mrs As pension. However, its 
review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the 
methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs A whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. She has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs A. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Gate Capital to put Mrs A as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs A would 
have most likely remained in her existing scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Gate Capital Group Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs A has not yet retired, and, as far as Im aware, she has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs As acceptance of the decision.
Gate Capital may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs As contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the previous scheme on Mrs As 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs A within 90 days of the date Gate Capital receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Gate Capital to pay 
Mrs A. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Gate Capital to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Illiquid investments in a SIPP
As I indicated above, my aim is to return Mrs A to the position she would have been in but 
for Gate Capitals actions. This is complicated where some of the investments are illiquid 
(meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. 
That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Gate Capital should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and 
take ownership of the investment. If Gate Capital is unable to buy the investment, it should 
give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Gate Capital has paid into the SIPP and 
any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Gate Capital may ask Mrs A to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives.
Gate Capital will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Gate Capital 
asks Mrs A to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.If the SIPP still exists because of the illiquid investment, in order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP.
Ive set out above how this might be achieved over the investment. But I dont know how 
long that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what 
to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Gate Capital pay Mrs A an upfront 
lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years 
fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be 
closed.
This matter has clearly been a source of distress to Mrs A due to the uncertainty that now 
exists surrounding the value of her pension at retirement. So, Gate Capital should pay Mrs 
A £300 compensation for the impact its unsuitable advice has had. 
Gate Capital should provide its calculation to Mrs A in a clear and easy to understand 
format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to 
£160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider 
that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Gate Capital Group Ltd 
to pay Mrs A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay Mrs A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Gate 
Capital Group Ltd to pay Mrs A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Gate Capital Group Ltd pays Mrs A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs A. 
If Mrs A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Gate Capital Group 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman