DRN-3991317
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced his 
credit limit.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M discovered that Barclays had reduced the credit limit on his credit card 
with it. He contacted Barclays, which told him that it was entitled to have made this decision 
and that it had done so correctly. It said it sent Mr P a letter about this prior to it happening.
Mr M complained to Barclays. It responded to explain why it would make a decision like this 
and said that Mr M was notified of this a few days after it had happened. Mr P was unhappy 
with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly. They considered that the terms and conditions entitled Barclays to reduce the credit 
limit and that it had notified Mr M of the change. As Mr M had made the point that he hadnt 
received the notification  or the responses to his complaint  from Barclays, our investigator 
also told him that they had seen copies of letters which they were satisfied had been 
correctly sent to Mr M.
Mr M remained unhappy with this outcome. He said that he was unhappy with how Barclays 
had dealt with his complaint about the time it took Barclays to respond to his complaint about 
delays. But our investigator still didnt feel that Barclays had done anything wrong here. So 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr M is unhappy here. His credit limit on his card was reduced at a time when 
he thinks that it shouldnt have been, based on what he understood of his position. So it 
must have been a surprise when he found out this happened. But, as a business, Barclays is 
entitled to decide how much it offers to customers in terms of any lending its providing. That 
includes reviewing the amount of credit it may be offering on an ongoing basis on an account 
like a credit card.
It's clear that Barclays made a decision to reduce the limit of what it was willing to offer Mr M 
here. Its shared its reasoning and process with this service and while we cant share that 
with Mr M, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to make this decision in the circumstances - 
even if Mr M may disagree with that decision. 
The terms of Mr Ms account with Barclays explain it can do this and say that if it reduces a 
credit limit then it may not give any notice, but may choose to give up to seven days notice. 
Barclays has shown that it sent a letter notifying Mr M of the reduction in his credit limit on 
9 August 2022. That letter was addressed to Mr M at the address Barclays held for him at 
the time. I note that it also communicated the reduction in the credit limit to him on 15 August 
2022 by text message and email. So Im satisfied that Barclays did enough to make Mr M 
aware of the decision it had made.
One of Mr Ms points is around the fact that Barclays gave him no ability to appeal the 
decision it had made. As Ive said elsewhere, a decision like this is a commercial one that its 
entitled to make. Barclays considered what Mr M said in his complaints, but stuck by its 
decision to reduce the limit here  as it was entitled to.
Mr M then raised issues around how Barclays dealt with his further complaints about the 
service it provided and some problems he had with the responses to his complaints. His 
frustration with this element of things is clear  but Barclays has sent us dated copies of the 
responses it says were sent and so its difficult for me to say that it was responsible for Mr M 
not receiving these. 
In any event, Im not persuaded that Barclays acted unfairly in relation to the crux of Mr Ms 
complaint about its decision to reduce his credit limit. Nor have I seen anything in how 
Barclays handled this situation that makes me think itd be fair to expect it to have to take 
any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman