DRN-2763107
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a mis-sold car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
MBNA has said it does not agree a claim should be made under section 75, as there is not 
enough evidence to show the dealer operator was in breach of contract or misrepresented 
the car.
I am satisfied the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is not broken so it falls to me to consider if 
there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I appreciate Mr W has referenced other 
consumer law and I will have due regard to that, but the only two criteria that would allow me 
to uphold his complaint against MBNA are if I accept there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
Mr W has said there was a breach of contract as the car is known to be a target of thieves 
who remove the catalytic converter due to its valued metals. I believe most cars can suffer 
from such thefts, but hybrid ones are more prone due to the fact the converters are less 
likely to be corroded. 
If I were to follow that line of argument, I would have to conclude that expensive cars which 
are also prone to theft could not be regarded as fit for purpose. The fact that a car may be 
targeted by thieves does not make it not fit for purpose or faulty.  Mr W entered into a 
contract to buy a second-hand car and this is what he was supplied with. As far as I am 
aware, he is able to drive it and it preforms the functions expected of a car. 
I cannot say that because he has been unfortunate to have suffered two thefts by third 
parties that the car was not of suitable quality. I regret that cars do suffer from theft. I have 
noted that there were 343,669 vehicle crimes reported in 2020 including the theft of parts 
including LED headlights as well as catalytic converters. I cannot conclude that there was a 
breach of contract due to a criminal act carried out by others.  
Mr W has also argued that there was misrepresentation since he says the dealer did not 
alert him to the risk the converter may be stolen. He says there was a specific risk attached 
to this model. 
I believe there is a risk to all cars which have catalytic converters and that risk is higher with 
hybrid cars. It isnt simply the model which he bought that is targeted, but other hybrid cars.  
So, I cannot accept that the threat limited to the particular model bought by Mr W. It is a 
more widespread problem. 
As it was stated in the debate on The Consumers Rights Act 2015 the Government agree 
that consumers should be protected from information given by a trader  whether in a 
notice or not  that misleads or that distorts the consumers decisions.
The issue is whether the dealer allegedly not mentioning that criminals may steal the 
converter amounts to misrepresentation. This requires there to have been a false statement 
of fact and this false statement induces a customer to buy a car. An omission does not 
amount to a false statement of fact. I appreciate that the Consumer Protection From Unfair 
Trading Regulations 2008 covers non-disclosure of material information, but Section 75 is 
limited in its application to misrepresentation. 
Regardless of that I am not persuaded that the dealer was obliged to tell Mr W about the 
possibility of the converter being stolen. There are many aspects to a car and it is not 
reasonable to expect a dealer to cover all of them. As I mentioned above expensive cars are 
more likely to be stolen and I do not consider it reasonable to expect a dealer to draw that to 
the attention of prospective purchasers. 
I note the manufacturer published material about the risks and how to protect the converter 
in April 2019. This was available to Mr W and offered him the opportunity to identify the risk. 
I would expect a consumer to take reasonable care in making a decision especially with an 
expensive item such as a car. The information was not hidden away and was in the public 
domain and I cannot see that the alleged failure of the dealer to highlight the issue amounts 
to misrepresentation.
In summary I am not persuaded that there has been either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and as such I cannot say that MBNA did anything wrong in that regard. I 
note it has offered Mr W £75 for its handling of his claim and I consider that to be 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman