DRN-3897940
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd to transfer the 
benefits he held in two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr L is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr L.
What happened
Mr L held benefits in three DB schemes. Two covering periods of previous employment and 
one with his current employer.
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme, the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS), from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr L was introduced to Quilter by another financial adviser for advice about his DB pensions. 
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and 
objectives. Mr L was 54, cohabiting with his long-term partner and he had two children, one 
of whom was still financially dependent. While it was noted Mr L had a medical condition 
controlled by medication, it was also recorded that he considered himself in good health. 
Mr L was employed full time and his income exceeded his outgoings. He had a mortgage 
with a remaining balance of approximately £40,000 and personal loans totalling around 
£12,500. And he had savings of around £3,000.
The first of Mr Ls three DB schemes, the BSPS, had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £237,310.37. The second, which Ill call Pension I, had a transfer value of 
£40,135.00. And the third of Mr Ls DB schemes, which Ill call Pension M, had a transfer 
value of £212,806.42.
Quilter said Mr L was aware he needed to make a decision about his BSPS benefits. It said 
although he didnt expect to fully retire until age 67, Mr L was interested in potentially 
clearing all of his debts and increasing the amount he held in savings, using tax-free cash 
(TFC) from some of his pension arrangements, and reducing his hours by moving into a job 
share early the following year, around the time he reached age 55. Quilter said he was 
looking to retain the benefits he held in Pension M and take these from age 60. But he was 
interested in moving his BSPS benefits and Pension I to access TFC. Quilter noted that 
while he had lived with his partner for more than a decade, they had no plans to marry.
Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk. It said Mr Ls attitude to risk 
was assessed to be that of a moderate investor. But it went on to say it was agreed his risk 
rating would be that of a balanced investor  a lower risk classification than moderate 
based on the information Quilter has provided. 
Quilter advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits from the BSPS and Pension I into a 
personal pension and invest in one of the providers managed funds. Quilter set out its 
analysis in a suitability report, which said the reasons for this recommendation were that 
Mr L expected Pension M and his state pension to be enough to meet his income needs in 
later life, so he could afford to give these pensions up to achieve his other objectives. And a 
transfer would provide Mr L with the flexibility to be able to draw the TFC he wanted and 
would improve the lump sum death benefits available. 
Mr L accepted Quilters recommendation and transferred his funds from the BSPS and 
Pension I to the named personal pension.
Mr L complained in 2022 to Quilter. He said he didnt think the advice hed received was 
suitable and that Quilter hadnt explained he was very unlikely to match the guaranteed 
benefits hed given up. 
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it thought the transfer was suitable as it met 
Mr Ls objectives. It acknowledged that Mr L couldve released the TFC he wanted by taking 
benefits early under the two schemes he transferred. But it said this wouldnt have given him 
the flexibility he wanted and wouldve left him with an excess income in retirement. And it 
said Mr L had made an informed decision to transfer.
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. His representative said 
Mr L has not retired or changed his working pattern, doesnt plan to do so and hadnt 
accessed benefits from his pension to clear his mortgage. So, they suggested those stated 
objectives were generic and that he didnt need flexibility or alternative death benefits. They 
said Mr L was an inexperienced investor with a cautious approach to risk and went to Quilter 
for advice. Quilter hadnt explained to Mr L that he was highly unlikely to match the benefits 
he was giving up and Mr L doesnt recall alternative options, for meeting the objectives 
Quilter said he had, being discussed. Rather he was just told to transfer. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He noted 
that reducing hours and clearing debt had only been recorded as something that Mr L might 
do. So, he didnt think these were confirmed objectives at the time of the advice  and noted 
Mr L had not taken these actions. He also said there was nothing to suggest that Mr Ls 
mortgage or loans were unaffordable. So, he didnt think the recommendation that Mr L give 
up guarantees and the security this offered just to repay these debts was in his interests. He 
thought Mr L was always unlikely to improve on the benefits his DB schemes offered by 
transferring. And he didnt think any of the other things Quilter had said the transfer helped 
achieve meant accepting this reduction in benefits was in Mr Ls best interests. So, he 
recommended that Quilter compensate Mr L for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice.
Quilter did not respond to the Investigators opinion, so we have assumed it did not agree. As agreement could not be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ls best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the 
transfer of Mr Ls two DB schemes was in his best interests, for the following reasons.
Quilter was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). 
This included calculating critical yields - how much Mr Ls pension fund, following a 
transfer, would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as 
the DB scheme wouldve done, at retirement. I can see that a TVAS report was 
produced for the BSPS benefits and those of Pension I.
Pension I had a normal scheme retirement age of 60. To match the benefits it 
guaranteed to provide at that age Mr Ls equivalent pension fund to those benefits 
would need to grow by either 14.5% if he took TFC and a reduced pension or 21.3% 
each year if he took a full pension.
Under the BSPS the normal scheme retirement age was 65. Mr L couldnt though 
have retained benefits in the BSPS as it was. To remain a member of that DB 
scheme he wouldve either needed to join the BSPS2 or the PPF. To match the 
benefits the BSPS2 would provide from age 65, the critical yield was 7.7% or 9.2%. To match the benefits the PPF would provide at 65, the critical yields were 5.5% or 
6.3%, depending on whether or not Mr L took TFC.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. At the time, 
the discount rate for 5 years to retirement (age 60) was 3.1% and for 10 years to 
retirement (age 65) 3.8%.
Given Mr Ls balanced or moderate attitude to risk, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% 
for low medium and high rate returns respectively, I think he was always likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value at the normal retirement age of the two DB 
schemes than hed have otherwise been entitled to, by transferring.
The TVAS reports also looked at the critical yields required to match the benefits 
Mr L couldve taken under both schemes from age 56  as taking benefits shortly 
after a transfer was something that Mr L was apparently considering but the analysis 
had to allow at least some time for growth. 
The report said to match the benefits Pension I would offer from age 56 the critical 
yields were all in excess of 29%. 
To match the benefits that the BSPS2 or the PPF would provide from age 56, in 
respect of the benefits Mr L currently held in the BSPS, the critical yields were all in 
excess of 32%.
The relevant discount rate for 1 year to retirement was 2.5% and the regulators 
standard projections were as already noted above. So, I also think Mr L was always 
likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower value that hed have been entitled to 
under the DB schemes if retiring early. 
And Quilter acknowledged Mr L was unlikely to improve on the benefits he was giving 
up, noting in the suitability report that the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved.
Quilter said that Mr L could afford to give up the guaranteed benefits Pension I and 
the BSPS would offer. Because Pension M and his and his partners state pension 
would meet their expected needs. But their estimated needs were just that  
estimates. These couldve been incorrect. And so, in my view, it wasnt in his 
interests to give up the guarantees available to him for this reason, particularly as he 
was always likely to be worse off.
Quilter says Mr L needed to access TFC of £68,000 to clear his debts and increase 
the amount he held in savings, in case he needed to provide some financial support 
to his children. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that his debts were unaffordable or 
that he was having any issues in meeting the required repayments. And I dont think 
giving up his guaranteed pension benefits to clear debts that were affordable was in 
his interests. 
While I understand the appeal of having a sum of money available in case of 
unexpected expenditure, I dont agree that this was something Mr L needed. Giving 
up valuable guarantees to achieve this was a particularly high cost to pay for this 
extra security, that may never have been required. And Quilters role wasnt to put in 
place what Mr L mightve thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to give him 
objective advice about what was in his best interests. So again, I dont think that 
giving up his guaranteed pension benefits to achieve this apparent goal  particularly 
given he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value by transferring 
 was in Mr Ls interests. 
Quilter has said that Mr L was interested in potentially reducing his working hours by 
entering a job share. And this would reduce his income  which is why he wanted to access TFC and achieve his objectives. But, as our Investigator noted, while this was 
something that Mr L mightve considered doing, I cant see that hed committed to it 
or made a final decision about taking this course of action. And indeed, Mr L has said 
he hasnt gone ahead with this. So, Im not sure this was a definitive plan at the time 
of the advice.
In any event, I dont think Mr L needed to transfer away from his DB schemes to clear 
his debts and be in a position to reduce his hours, if this had been his intention. The 
TVAS said that if Mr L opted into the PPF in respect of his BSPS benefits, at age 56 
hed be able to take TFC of £62,291 and then receive a guaranteed, annual 
escalating pension income of £6,091 per year. I appreciate that, at age 55, a year 
earlier, those figures wouldve been slightly lower. But the TFC amount would still 
likely to have been sufficient to clear his recorded debts of £52,500 with some funds 
left over to add to his savings if he so chose. And the ongoing income, which 
wouldve been received in addition to his salary, couldve supplemented his savings 
further or be used to enjoy his early years of semi-retirement. And Mr L could also 
have taken his benefits early under Pension I and drawn a further TFC sum from that 
pension of just over £4,500 and an escalating annual pension beginning at around 
£680 per year. 
Quilter acknowledged in its response to the complaint that Mr L couldve achieved his 
objectives of clearing his debts by remaining in the DB schemes and taking benefits 
through them. But it said this didnt give him flexibility and couldve resulted in him 
potentially receiving a surplus income in his retirement. But I dont think potentially 
having more funds than he thought hed need in retirement was a bad thing for Mr L 
 as his estimates of the income he expected to require couldve been incorrect. And 
I cant see that Mr L needed the ability to be able to vary his income in retirement. 
So, I dont think transferring to achieve flexibility, which Mr L didnt have a need for, 
was in his best interest.
Quilter said that the lump sum death benefits available through a personal pension 
were another reason that a transfer was suitable for Mr L. But the primary purpose of 
a pension is to provide for the holders needs in retirement, and the priority here was 
to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement provisions. And Mr L may well 
have come to rely on the benefits of Pension I and the BSPS in his retirement.
Pension I wouldve provided a spouses pension, equivalent to two thirds of the 
income that wouldve been payable to Mr L, in the event of his death. Which couldve 
been useful to his partner, in the event he predeceased her. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated and was not dependent on investment performance. And it appears 
that Quilter confirmed with the trustees that Mr Ls partner would qualify for this 
benefit.
Due to their marital status Mr Ls partner may not have qualified for a spouses 
pension under the BSPS2 or the PPF  although a final decision would be subject to 
the schemes discretion. But while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared 
attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer 
was always likely to be different  so may not have provided the legacy Mr L mightve 
thought it would.
Mr L had death in service benefits through his employer equivalent to six times his 
salary, which in my view appears to have been a more appropriate method by which 
to leave a potential legacy to his family. And if he wanted to leave a further lump 
sum, life insurance couldve been explored. Quilter said in response to the complaint 
that Mr Ls health condition was likely to make this expensive. But I cant see that it 
actually considered this at the time of the advice.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And ultimately 
Quilter should not have encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. Mr L was an inexperienced investor, and I cant see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And the 
recommendation seems to have been on the understanding he was going to take 
ongoing advice about how his pension was invested, at additional cost. So, I dont 
think him having control over his pension was a genuine reason for transferring or 
made doing so in his interests.
The consultation regarding the BSPS mayve given Mr L concerns about how that 
pension had been managed to that point. But Quilter said in its suitability report that 
the funding position of the pension wasnt a reason for its recommendation. And, 
even if Mr L did have concerns about this, the BSPS2 and the PPF both wouldve 
provided guaranteed benefits that Mr L was unlikely to improve upon by transferring.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ls best interest to give up 
his DB benefits under either Pension I or the BSPS and transfer them to a personal pension.
Quilter says that Mr L made an informed decision to transfer and referred to an email he sent 
after receiving the suitability report explaining he understood the reasons for the 
recommendation. So, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr L would always have looked to 
proceed with a transfer. But the email Quilter has referred to appears to have been directly 
requested by it, as part of the transfer process, rather than being independently provided by 
Mr L. And it appears to have simply repeated information about reasons for transferring that 
Quilter had already provided to Mr L. And ultimately, Quilter advised Mr L to transfer. I think 
he relied on that advice. And if Quilter, a professional adviser whose expertise he had been 
recommended and was paying for, had explained why it wasnt in his best interests to 
transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr L received from Quilter was 
unsuitable.
While the information from the time indicates that Mr L was potentially interested in changing 
his working pattern from age 55, I dont think hed made a firm decision about this. And he 
also seems to have been clear with Quilter that he didnt intend to stop working entirely until 
age 67. With that in mind, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't 
necessarily have been offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr L wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme at 
a later time. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, 
Mr L wouldve opted into the BSPS2. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would have most 
likely remained in both of his DB pension schemes, retaining his benefits in Pension I as 
they were and that he wouldve opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
Quilter must therefore undertake redress calculations. Two separate calculations will need to 
be run. One in respect of Pension I and a separate one in respect of Mr Ls BSPS benefits. 
Both should be carried out in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
In respect of Mr Ls BSPS benefits, Quilter should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr L and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with 
supporting evidence of what Quilter based the inputs into the calculator on. 
For clarity, I understand Mr L has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation in both calculations should be based on each schemes normal retirement 
age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
The two calculations should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in 
line with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, these 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr L acceptance of the decision.
If either redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculations that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Quilter may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman