DRN-2722648
The complaint
Mrs W complained about her motor insurer, AXA insurance UK Plc. She is unhappy with 
both the customer service she received, and the time taken by AXA to resolve her claim 
after her car was stolen. Mrs W says delay cost her money as she had to hire a car. 
What happened
 I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and copied here. 
Mrs Ws vehicle was stolen on 6 June 2019 and she reported this to the police who gave 
her a crime reference number, she also contacted AXA. Mrs W then spoke with AXAs 
claim handlers.
Mrs Ws policy includes a courtesy vehicle for 14 days if hers could not be repaired or 
was stolen and AXA provided this. However, there were several delays which meant she 
did not receive the payment for her car until 14 August. First, AXAs claim handlers 
contacted the police on 11 July and were informed the crime reference number Mrs W 
had provided was correct but some details didnt match their records. The police advised 
the claim handlers to request a full crime report, which they did. 
On 25 July, after Mrs W had made follow up contacts with the claim handlers and the 
police the claim handlers told AXA that the police had confirmed they had misinformed 
them previously and there were no inconsistencies with Mrs Ws case and it was closed. 
However, AXA did not register this information and remained unaware until 5 August 
when Mrs W again contacted them for an update, a delay of 11 days. 
The value of Mrs Ws car was agreed by AXA on 9 August and this was paid to Mrs W 
on 14 August.
There were further delays as she was asked to provide a list of items which had been in 
her car when she had already provided this list several weeks earlier.
Mrs W received the final settlement for the personal possessions which had been in her 
car on 12 September 2019, just over 3 months after she made her claim.
In my provisional findings I found Mrs Ws claim was raised on 7 June and the final 
settlement figure for her car was paid on 14 August 2019. Mrs W felt her claim could 
have been settled within two weeks, however on this point I disagreed. It is normal for a 
more complex claim, such as this one to take longer to resolve and the nine weeks her 
claim took to settle is not unusual. Additionally two weeks of delay was the result of the 
police providing incorrect information, I can appreciate this must have been very 
frustrating for Mrs W but it wasnt AXAs fault. 
However, once AXA was given the correct information they didnt act on it for a further 
11 days, and when they did act this was only because Mrs W had chased matters and 
made further enquiries. I can appreciate this must have been very annoying and costly 
for Mrs W and her family who needed a car for travel to work. Mrs Ws policy clearly 
stated a courtesy vehicle would only be available for 14 days so I do not think it is fair to 
require AXA to pay for all of the costs Mrs W incurred hiring a car after the initial 14 day 
period but I do think it is fair and reasonable that AXA pay for the costs Mrs W incurred 
as a direct result of their delays. 
Mrs W paid £717.37 in hire vehicle charges between 20 July and 17 August 2019. As 
AXA should have been progressing Mrs Ws claim between 25 July and 5 August I think 
it is fair they pay for the costs of the hire vehicle for these days. In reaching a figure for 
this I have divided the total cost Mrs W paid for hire vehicles (£717.37) by the number of 
days (28) and multiplied this daily rate by 11, which is the number of days between 25 
July and 5 August when AXA should have been aware the police investigation was 
closed and they could have been progressing Mrs Ws claim. This gives a total of 
£281.82 for AXA to pay to Mrs W.
I can also see Mrs W then had to continue to telephone and email AXA multiple times to 
reach a final settlement for claim regarding her possessions which were in her vehicle. I 
can see the customer service she received could have been better and this must have 
added to her frustration and distress at the situation, Mrs W feels nothing was done 
unless she was chasing it up. For the impact this poor service had upon Mrs W I said I 
was minded to require AXA to pay Mrs W a further £100 compensation in addition to the 
£100 they have already paid her.
Mrs W and AXA both accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld and for the reasons 
I gave in my provisional decision. Mrs W received poor service from AXA and incurred 
additional costs as a result of this. 
 
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should pay Mrs W for the additional costs of a hire car she 
incurred during AXAs delay. They should  also pay Mrs W an additional £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay 
Mrs W £281.82 for the additional costs of a hire car she incurred during AXAs delay 
between 25 July and 5 August 2019. I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs W 
an additional £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman