DRN-3874140
The complaint
Mr J wants to withdraw his fixed term deposit account ahead of its maturity date in response 
to Masthaven Bank Limiteds decision to withdraw from the UK banking market.   
What happened
In September 2021, Mr J deposited £85,000 into a fixed term deposit account which was due 
to expire on 30 March 2023.
In February 2022, Masthaven announced that it would be withdrawing from the UK banking 
market following a review of its business. Masthaven explained this was a strategic decision 
and that it has sufficient capital and liquidity to repay savings customers.
Mr J was concerned. He explained that hed held accounts with firms that had collapsed in 
the past and he didnt like this uncertainty. He explained that Masthavens literature about 
the decision said a maximum term of six months would be applied to retained deposits, so 
he thought he would get his money returned to him within that timeframe.  
In early September 2022, Mr J contacted Masthaven and highlighted that hed not received 
his funds back. He wanted to be able to withdraw his funds without penalty and explained it 
was stressful not being able to plan. 
Masthaven responded to say that Mr Js funds were not a retained deposit, which only 
related to customers that had applied for a new account that was being offered for a 
maximum duration of six months or a reinvestment of an account that was maturing. It said 
that Mr Js account was and is still a fixed term product and that the bank would provide 
more information about how the funds would be returned to him in due course. Masthaven 
said Mr Js savings were protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Mr J made a complaint. He said Masthavens communications had been misleading and 
hed been treated unfairly because the bank had said it was going to return the funds at a 
different date to the maturity date but hadnt said when or how much notice he would 
receive. He said that if Masthaven wanted to alter the accounts term, he should have the 
reciprocal right to do the same and be able to withdraw his money now. He referred to the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website and explained the regulator had said that 
requiring a consumer to fulfil all their contractual obligations whilst letting the firm avoid its 
own was a potentially unfair term. 
In its final response, Masthaven said that customers are unable to withdraw funds before the 
maturity date or change the maturity date of a fixed term deposit account. It said it was 
working with the FCA to confirm plans to return funds back to customers and would take 
every approach to ensure he was not inconvenienced.
Masthaven then issued a communication to all impacted savings customers explaining that 
customer deposits will be returned on or before the contractual maturity date (depending on 
the date of maturity) and interest would be paid in full, even if being paid back earlier than 
the contractual maturity date. 
Mr J contacted this service. He said Masthavens response didnt address his concerns 
because it didnt explain why it could alter the fixed term of the account, but he could not. 
He was concerned that Masthaven was going to go bust. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but did not recommend that it should be upheld. He 
said that fixed term accounts are fixed until the expiry date. He didnt think Mr J was going to 
be financially disadvantaged because Masthaven intends to pay all of the interest his 
account was going to earn during the term hed fixed for whether it runs to its intended 
maturity or not. 
Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said once Masthaven had made 
it known that it was unilaterally altering the terms and conditions of the account, it was unfair 
he was not allowed the same option to choose a different maturity date that suited him. He 
said he still didnt know when his funds were going to mature.
Our Investigator added that Masthaven had said it would give Mr J 30 days notice of when 
the funds would be returned and that this would either be in January or February 2023. He 
acknowledged that there was no set date which made it harder for him to plan, but he 
couldnt see that this was to his financial disadvantage. 
Mr J responded to say hed experienced a lot of stress and uncertainty as a result of this 
ongoing situation. He pointed out that he could have invested the money elsewhere at a 
higher interest rate, so he was losing out. He stressed that the FCA had already determined 
that this type of term was unfair. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was 
referred to me.
My further investigation   
When I started to review the complaint papers, I contacted Mr J to explain that when 
considering a complaint about the application of terms and conditions, my starting point is to 
look at the terms and conditions that were originally agreed to when the account was 
opened, as they govern the relationship between a consumer and a firm. 
I sent Mr J a copy of the terms and conditions that applied to his fixed term deposit account 
and pointed to Section 13, Changes to this agreement. I explained that the effect of this 
Section is that Masthaven is allowed to make changes to the conditions that govern the 
relationship between the parties in certain circumstances. I suggested that what Masthaven 
had said about working with the FCA to exit the market was encompassed by 13.3.4, which 
says that Masthaven can make changes to these conditions to comply with instructions, 
indications or guidance from our regulators or other relevant authorities.  I also pointed to 
clause 13.4 which allows Masthaven to make changes as a result of unforeseen reasons 
too, such as its decision to exit the market. 
I said that Masthavens actions are in line with what the contract says they can do. I was also 
mindful that it was going to pay the full amount of interest Mr J had been due to receive, so 
Mr J wasnt going to lose out financially from any decision that might be taken to end the 
fixed term early. There was no suggestion that Masthaven was going to extend the term. 
Mr J responded to say that he did not dispute Masthaven has the right to make changes to 
the contract. His position is the contract is unfair because it does not allow him reciprocal 
rights. He explained that Masthaven had only recently told him what the final arrangements 
for the maturity of his account were going to be and that, assuming it all happened, he would 
only benefit from having the money back approximately 40 days earlier. He explained that he had been stressed by this matter having lost money when other 
financial institutions had collapsed in the past and was suspicious about why Masthaven 
wanted to leave a market that other institutions wanted to join. He pointed out that if hed 
been allowed to alter the maturity date to suit him, he would have had less to worry about 
and could have earned more interest by investing elsewhere. He wanted to be put in the 
position he would have otherwise been in had he been allowed to end the account early and 
suggested he would have been able to invest the money at around 5% AER instead of the 
1.36% AER the funds had received in the Masthaven account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Js complaint. I know this is not the outcome he was 
hoping for, so I will explain why. 
When a customer opens a fixed term deposit account, they agree that their money is to be 
held in the account for a specified period and, in return, they will be offered a guaranteed 
interest rate. Higher interest rates are usually available to savers who are prepared to tie 
their money up compared to savers who require instant access. This is because banks will 
rely on that commitment to use the funds for the period they are locked in, such as by 
lending the money out to other borrowers. Whilst the precise terms and conditions of fixed 
term deposit accounts will vary from provider to provider, generally withdrawals or early 
closure are not permitted during the fixed term unless an account holder dies. Ive looked 
carefully at the terms of the Masthaven fixed term account Mr J opened and they explain that  
funds cannot be withdrawn until the end of the agreed term. 
There is no debate that at the time Mr J entered into the fixed term account with Masthaven, 
he broadly accepted that he could not withdraw the money or close the account until the end 
of the agreed term and he did not intend to. But, during that term, there were unforeseen 
circumstances that I dont think from what Ive seen Masthaven could have predicted when 
the account was opened. I can appreciate the banks decision to withdraw from the UK 
market would have come as unwelcome and unsettling news to Mr J, especially as he has 
told us of other experiences he has had in the past when financial institutions have 
collapsed. But I do not agree that Mr J should have been given the option to pull out of his 
fixed term deposit account earlier. 
Mr J has provided us with copies of Masthavens communications about the reasons why it 
was withdrawing from the UK market. It states that the bank is well-funded and has 
sufficient capital and liquidity to repay savings customers in an orderly fashion by the end of 
2023, on or before contractual maturity dates. 
Although Mr J was not reassured by this and felt there was a possibility that the bank would 
collapse, I think the information Masthaven provided made it clear deposited funds were not 
at risk whilst arrangements to run off the bank were made. In addition to this, Masthaven did 
point out to Mr J that his deposit was protected by the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.
Mr J feels strongly that Masthavens proposed changes to the contract between them are 
unfair because they let it change the duration of the fixed term when he cannot. Ultimately, 
only a court can decide if any given contractual term is unfair. But the involvement of the 
regulator in Masthavens withdrawal from the UK market is intended to minimise detriment to 
the banks impacted customers. I am not persuaded that the regulator would approve 
arrangements that may be regarded as unfair towards consumers. For the most part, Mr Js fixed term deposit account has run as anticipated at the outset and 
almost for the full duration. He has been given reasonable notice of what was happening 
with the bank and at least 30 days prior notice of the arrangements for the revised maturity 
of his funds. Whilst I recognise that prevailing market conditions have changed during the 
time that Mr Js funds have been on deposit, I dont consider he has lost out financially 
because of Masthavens actions. Masthaven is intending to pay him the full amount of 
interest that his funds were always due to receive for the period hed agreed to lock them 
away for.
I know this is not the conclusion Mr J wanted and it will not feel fair to him, but Im not 
persuaded that Masthaven are at fault here. I believe it has treated him fairly and reasonably 
overall. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman