DRN-2180676
The complaint
Miss D says Newcastle Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss D took out a PPI policy in November 1995 at around the same time as she re-
mortgaged. The policy gave her cover for accident, sickness and unemployment protection. 
The unemployment cover was added in February 1996 as the cover was initially set up 
incorrectly. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. So on what I think it most likely given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our 
website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Miss D says she was told by the third party that arranged her mortgage that PPI was a 
pre-requisite. She was pressured to take it out. And she says the timeline of when she 
applied, received her offer, signed a PPI application and received the funds shows she had 
to have it to get the mortgage. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting, but Miss D didnt select PPI when she completed 
her mortgage application form in August 1995. This set out that cover was optional and No 
was ticked on her form. As Miss D then received a mortgage offer in September 1995, I dont 
think she could have thought PPI was mandatory. 
It seems the society then called Miss D in November 1995. There are no call notes or 
recording so I cant know what was said on the call, but I can see that after it Miss D faxed 
confirmation that she wanted PPI saying I wish to confirm I would like to take up the 
payment protection plan offered by the Newcastle. She then signed a PPI application form 
two days later. And I cant find enough evidence to support her claim that she was pressured 
to do so. It seems at this point she decided she did want the cover. On the form she selected 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Newcastle initially set up her policy incorrectly 
to give only accident and sickness cover, but after she contacted it in February 1996 about 
this it amended her cover to also include unemployment. This also suggests to me the PPI 
was something Miss D knew she had choices about - and wanted.
Overall, based on this series of events, I think Newcastle made it clear the PPI was optional 
and Miss D agreed to take it. And as she was paying monthly Miss D could have cancelled 
the PPI at any stage if she no longer wanted it or her circumstances changed, without 
incurring any further cost.
Nationwide didnt recommend the cover to Miss D, so it didnt need to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got all the information she needed to make an informed 
decision. Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think 
better information would have changed Miss Ds decision. I say this because:
Miss D was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the policys terms and 
conditions. It seems she wasnt affected by any of the things limiting the policys main 
benefits. So I think it unlikely better information on the policys exclusions and 
limitations would have changed her decision to buy it. 
I dont know when the cost was first disclosed to Miss D  but it was made clear in 
the mortgage offer and the PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered. I 
know Miss D said she wouldnt have wanted to increase her outgoings at all, but I 
can find no evidence to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable. 
Miss D was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, 
but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months. 
Miss D was borrowing a large sum of money over a long time secured on her home 
and given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payment, I think the PPI 
wouldve been useful for Miss D if she was sick, had accident or lost her job.
It follows I dont think Miss D has lost out because of anything Newcastle did wrong and I am 
not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman