DRN-4083543
The complaint
Ms G and Mr I complain that the appointed representative of Cornerstone Finance Group Ltd 
recommended that they take out a mortgage product that proved to be unsuitable.
What happened
Ms G and Mr I took advice from a broker, Cornerstone, about a remortgage in June 2022. 
Their mortgage product was due for renewal in October 2022. The broker sourced several 
quotes and in August Ms G and Mr I applied through the broker for a mortgage based on the 
brokers recommendation. The chosen lender issued a mortgage offer in September 2022. 
Ms G and Mr I say that they understood that they agreed a fixed interest rate of 2.25% but 
the rate was changed to 2.75%. The advised mortgage was in fact a discounted variable rate 
tracker mortgage. Cornerstone confirmed that this was the case at the end of September 
and Ms G and Mr I cancelled their application. The broker returned the broker fee of £350 as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Cornerstone didnt uphold the complaint saying that the documentation sent to Ms G and Mr 
I clearly set out what product they were applying for. Our investigator recommended that this 
complaint should be upheld as she felt that Ms G and Mr I may not have understood fully the 
options that were available to them and suggested compensation of £200. Ms G and Mr I 
disagreed as they wish to be compensated for the increase in the interest rate that they are 
now having to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint about a recommendation in the summer of 2022 when Ms G and Mr I 
looked for advice on a mortgage product. The broker recommended to them a discounted 
variable rate tracker mortgage. The broker said the reason for that was is to meet their 
objectives as stated in the Letter of Suitability You wanted a discounted standard variable 
rate in the current situation which is slightly cheaper than a fixed rate . I note the fact find 
also refers to this discounted rate being cheaper than the fixed rate. So, it seems that the 
recommendation was issued because the interest rate on this discounted tracker rate was 
cheaper than a fixed rate that would have been available to Ms G and Mr I.
I noted that other reasons were given by the adviser for Ms G and Mr I choosing this rate 
including avoiding early repayment charges and facilitating their desire to benefit from a fall 
in interest rates. Its not clear to me from the fact find that Ms G and Mr I had a need to avoid 
any ERC or that they imagined that interest rates would fall and wanted to avoid a fixed rate 
to take advantage of that. There is no record of a discussion about future interest rates or 
their attitude to that in the fact find so Im not sure how the adviser could come to that 
conclusion. 
So, my view is that some of the conclusions in the recommendation arent supported by the 
evidence in the fact find. I believe that the adviser considered that in his view the 
recommended mortgage product was the cheapest product for Ms G and Mr I and tailored 
the recommendation accordingly. I believe that in particular he failed to properly consider 
whether this type of discounted tracker product was suitable for Ms G and Mr Is 
requirements  There is no evidence of a discussion about their view of whether interest rates 
would change and in what direction and why they apparently wanted to avoid an ERC. So, I 
intend to uphold the complaint on that basis.
That said, all the documentation sent out fairly states what type of product this is and that 
they were choosing a rate that would change if interest rates changed so Im content that Ms 
G and Mr I should have known what was being offered when they accepted the offer.   
In compensation I agree that it was reasonable for Cornerstone to refund the broker fee. I 
also agree that Ms G and Mr I should receive compensation for their disappointment with 
Cornerstones failure to provide a proper service and I assess that at £200. I dont believe 
that Cornerstone was responsible for any financial loss they may have suffered. Cornerstone 
isnt responsible for the increase in interest rates which would have caused Ms G and Mr I to 
pay more on the current mortgage.  
Putting things right
Cornerstone Finance Group Ltd should pay Ms G and Mr I £200. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Cornerstone Finance Group Ltd to pay Ms G and Mr I 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman