DRN-2734954
The complaint
Mr H complains Vanquis Bank Limited hasnt refunded several payments made with his 
credit card which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only 
provide an overview of the key events here. 
In the evening of 29 September 2020, several payments were made with Mr Hs credit card. 
These were all online payments totalling around £850. All the payments went to a merchant 
who provides an online money transfer service. 
Mr H reported the payments to Vanquis as unauthorised. He said these werent made or 
otherwise authorised by him. He told Vanquis that his credit card and his mobile phone, 
which is only accessible by a passcode or fingerprint, was always in his possession. And at 
the time the disputed transactions took place he was at work doing a late shift. 
Vanquis investigated and declined Mr Hs claim. They said they didnt consider the 
transactions fraudulent because the payments were verified by Visa; and One Time 
Passcodes (OTPs) were sent to the registered mobile number to verify some of the 
payments. Vanquis also said Mr Hs mobile banking app was accessed multiple times 
around the time the transactions were taking place. And so, theyve held Mr H liable for the 
disputed transactions. 
Mr H complained about the outcome of his claim, he also said Vanquis claim outcome letter 
had some errors in it. After looking into the complaint, Vanquis said theyd come to the 
correct decision and maintained their position to hold Mr H liable for the disputed 
transactions. Vanquis apologised for the errors in the letter and paid £25 compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy with the liability decision and brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he concluded its more likely than not the payments were authorised by Mr H and so Vanquis 
was entitled to hold him responsible for them. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintained his position that he was at work when the disputed transactions happened, and 
that he didnt make them nor receive or respond to any messages from Vanquis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why. 
My role is to consider whether Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably in holding Mr H 
responsible for the disputed payments. Mr H says he didnt authorise the payments. If the 
payments werent authorised by Mr H, Vanquis wouldnt generally be able to hold him liable 
for them. 
Here, Vanquis have been able to show each payment was correctly authenticated using the 
correct details of Mr Hs card. Based on this, Im satisfied the payments were authenticated. 
But the regulations say this isnt enough, on its own, for Vanquis to hold Mr H liable for them. 
I also have to think about whether he consented to the payments being made. 
To reach a conclusion on whether or not Mr H consented to the payments, Ive carefully 
considered what hes said as well as the evidence Vanquis has provided. Having done so, 
on balance I think Mr H consented to and therefore authorised the payments, Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt receive or respond to any messages from Vanquis. However, the 
technical evidence shows most of the transactions were verified by additional security 
measures. After the first two transactions, the subsequent transactions were authorised by 
OTP codes. By this, I mean that prior to allowing the payments to be made, Vanquis sent an 
OTP via text message to the number they held on file for Mr H (which I note is the same 
number he provided to our service). The payments were completed by the OTP being 
entered on the merchants website. There isnt a plausible explanation as to how somebody 
other than Mr H (or someone with his permission) was able to enter the codes onto the 
merchants website as it wouldve required access to Mr Hs mobile phone. Mr H says his 
phone was passcode/fingerprint protected and that it was in his possession at the relevant 
time. This would have been required in addition to knowing the details of Mr Hs cards 
personalised security information in order to complete the payments. 
Vanquis records also show that on 29 September 2020, the mobile banking App was 
accessed between 8.57pm and 10.02pm. This was within the period of time that many of the 
disputed transactions took place. But Mr H didnt report the transactions until later  after the 
final disputed payment had been completed. Im not persuaded that somebody else was 
able to access the mobile banking app at the time because it wouldve required access to 
Mr Hs mobile phone and also knowledge of his mobile banking login details. 
In addition to the above, the mobile phone device used to access the mobile banking app at 
the time of the disputed transactions is the same device used to access the mobile banking 
app before and after 29 September 2020. 
With the above in mind, Im more persuaded by the technical evidence and I think on 
balance Mr H more likely than not authorised the transactions hes disputed, and so it follows 
Vanquis is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman