DRN-2830328
The complaint
Mr B complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr B took out two Cashfloat loans as follows:
Loan 
numberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 22/09/2015 01/10/2015 2 £250.00 £162.41
2 18/10/2015 outstanding 4 £600.00 £240.56
Mr B mainly said that if Cashfloat had checked his credit record and looked at his bank 
statements it wouldve seen payments to multiple payday loan companies, various missed 
payments, payments to a debt management plan and (at the time) spending on gambling 
transactions.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Cashfloat told us about these loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Cashfloat saw anything that 
shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our adjudicator didnt 
think that the number of loans Mr B took, the amounts they were for or the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown Cashfloat he mightve 
been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In particular, Mr B felt that taking out loan 2 so soon after paying loan 1, 
especially given the big jump in the amount he was borrowing, shouldve warranted a 
closer look at his loan application. And he sent us credit report information and his bank 
statements in support of what he told us about his financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Ive come to 
the same overall conclusions as our adjudicator and Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons.  
Cashfloat provided Mr B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Cashfloat 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cashfloat was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Bs applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. And it relied on information Mr B provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. 
It says the information it had about Mr B showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Cashfloat, at this early stage, Mr B didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Cashfloat to any underlying money problems. The 
information Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Bs finances suggested that he was well able 
to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr B provided or the other information 
Cashfloat had recorded, which meant that Cashfloat shouldve taken steps to check the 
information Mr B had declared. 
Whilst I think its fair to say that Cashfloat could see that Mr B had some adverse credit 
history, from what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for 
loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit 
history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to be unduly concerned about at this 
stage. 
It was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks were enough for Cashfloat to 
agree to lend. 
So I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr B took out the second loan within a few weeks of paying loan 1  and he 
borrowed a substantially larger loan this time. But I dont think these things on their own 
were enough to make Cashfloat think that Mr B was becoming increasingly indebted or 
struggling with being over stretched financially.Cashfloat asked Mr B to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan. I think its fair to take into account that loan 2 still looked to be 
comfortably affordable for Mr B. He hadnt shown Cashfloat any signs that he was finding it 
hard to pay for his borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Cashfloat 
had collected, seem to support Cashfloats lending decision. There wasnt enough in the 
credit check information that Cashfloat could see that I think wouldve made it realise that he 
couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. And I think it was too soon for Cashfloat 
reasonably to be able to identify any particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested 
Mr B was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or not using the money it lent for its intended 
purpose of providing short-term financial help.
Mr B feels that Cashfloat didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to him. But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Mr Bs 
lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. At this stage of the 
lending relationship, and given these loan amounts, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr B to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. So I dont think Cashfloat did anything wrong when it made its lending 
decisions based on the information it had at the time  without asking to see Mr Bs bank 
statements. 
Im sorry that Mr B has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality it 
looks likely that Mr Bs financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he 
provided or the other information Cashfloat obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint 
I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this 
case, I dont think that Cashfloat did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr B. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr B but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman