DRN-3745801
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was registered in June 2011, which means it was around eight years old 
and had travelled around 61,305 miles when it was supplied to Mr T. The purchase price of 
the car was £4,120. Mr T paid a deposit of £125 and part exchanged a previous car so the 
total amount financed on this agreement was £3,495 payable over 48 months.
Mr T complained that his car has been faulty since it was supplied to him. Mr T said within 
the first few weeks of having the car he noticed the parcel shelf was split and found the 
shock absorbers were leaking. Mr T said both were repaired under the warranty. 
Mr T said his car experienced a number of further issues which included it breaking down on 
at least two occasions and requiring repairs on different components including, but not 
limited to, the steering rack, radiator and exhaust. Mr T said he had to pay for some of the 
repairs because the warranty had expired.
In January 2022 MotoNovo issued their final response to Mr Ts complaint, which they didnt 
uphold. MotoNovo said as Mr T raised the issues with them more than six months after he 
acquired the car, they required an engineers report to evidence the car wasnt fit for purpose 
or not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Unhappy with their decision Mr T brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Mr T 
told our investigator he wants compensation for being sold a faulty car as the whole situation 
has caused him constant stress. Mr T said hes since settled his finance agreement. 
MotoNovo provided a statement of Mr Ts agreement showing it was settled in May 2022. 
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that MotoNovo had acted fairly in 
the circumstances as there was no evidence to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr T, and so our investigator didnt ask MotoNovo to do anything in 
relation to the complaint.
In response to our investigators view, Mr T further described the impact the situation has 
had on him and his family, and advised the car was still experiencing issues. However, as 
our investigators view remained unchanged, Mr T asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that MotoNovo supplied Mr T with a used car that was around six years 
old and had travelled 61,305 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car; and that 
there would likely be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. The car was also priced 
considerably less than what it would have been if it was brand new, which reflects its age 
and condition.
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the invoices provided by Mr T detailing the various repairs carried out. Having 
considered the car had a fault, Ive thought about whether it was of satisfactory quality at the 
time of supply. 
Im in agreement with our investigator, that Mr Ts car having issues doesnt necessarily 
indicate that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to him.
Mr P provided our investigator with invoices for repairs dated September 2019, May 2020, 
January 2021, September 2021, October 2021, November 2021, January 2022, April 2022 
and May 2022. 
The invoice in September 2019 has no details of the issues reported, however Im 
persuaded by the information provided the issue was repaired under warranty as described 
by Mr T. And although this would have been within a month of supply, I have no evidence of 
the actual damage, that it wasnt a successful repair, or that Mr T requested a rejection of 
the car at that point; and under the CRA a repair is considered a fair remedy for goods that 
are faulty.
The other invoices are dated from May 2020 which would have been around nine months 
after supply. Having thought about the issues noted on each invoice, I dont consider that 
any of these indicate the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The mileage recorded on an 
invoice dated in May 2020 shows the mileage as 75,162. This shows Mr T had travelled 
around 14,000 additional miles in the car without any issues, which further persuades me 
that the problems occurring around this time or after would have likely been caused by 
natural wear and tear through its usage. Im persuaded any inherent damage would have 
likely been identified sooner.I dont consider that any of the issues noted on the invoices relate to a component that 
couldnt reasonably have failed when it did, or that any major component has failed in a 
relatively short period of time. For example, on an invoice dated in January 2022, the rear 
brake shoes were noted as being worn, the exhaust pipe in a poor condition and both rear 
tyres were perished. However, the mileage on the invoice was recorded as 107,578, which 
was an increase of around 46,000 miles since supply. The car was also around 11 years old 
at that point. Considering the circumstances, and usage of the car, Im not persuaded its 
necessarily unreasonable for those issues to have failed at that point.
I acknowledge what Mr T says about the numerous issues hes experienced, and I recognise 
his strength of feeling about the impact this situation has had on him and his family. 
However, considering the condition of the car and the distance travelled at the point of each 
issue, Im satisfied, from the information provided that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr T.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require MotoNovo to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman