DRN-2456482
The complaint
Miss C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Miss C bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out dual credit cards. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Barclaycard made Miss C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because she did tick the box on her credit card application form to 
show that she wanted the cover. There was a box directly underneath that she 
couldve ticked if she didnt want it. So from what Ive seen, I think Miss C wouldve 
realised she had a choice about buying the PPI.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C, so it didnt have to check whether it 
was suitable for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means she 
might have had to cover her repayments. 
But even if Barclaycard had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for Miss C based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss 
C says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work. But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Miss Cs employer benefits and wouldve been 
useful to her if she couldnt work. And it wouldve meant she could use her employer 
sick pay to cover other expenses.
So I think Miss C wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But its unlikely Miss C would have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman