DRN-3776033
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him money that he lost as a result of 
fraud. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here.
In summary, Mr Z fell victim to an impersonation/ safe account scam and transferred £4,400 
in December 2020.
Mr Z says on 17 December 2020, he received a call from someone purporting to be from 
another bank, who he held an account with. He said he was told his account had been 
compromised with unusual activity. Mr Z recollects going through security on this call  
where he was asked to confirm his date of birth, address and full name. He was asked to 
confirm if hed made specific transactions on his account and after being placed on hold, he 
says he was told all seemed fine. 
He recollects around an hour later he received another call from someone claiming to be 
from Monzo. Unbeknown to Mr Z, he was in fact speaking with a fraudster. Mr Z said the 
caller knew his name and went on to ask him security questions which he answered. Mr Z 
was told his account had been compromised. He was told his account had been blocked but 
to make sure his money was safe he needed to send his funds to a new account which 
would be activated once he was sent a new card.
Mr Z was given the new account details and he proceeded to send £4,400 to this account. 
Mr Z says he was panicked on receiving this second call. He was worried about his Monzo 
account as this held his savings. The day before, on 16 December 2020, Mr Z requested a 
withdrawal from his savings account with Monzo to his current account. Mr Z said this was 
intended to be sent to a close family member to help make a payment for a specific purpose. 
It was later the same day that Mr Z said he started to worry and question what had 
happened. He said on thinking back he realised the bank wouldnt ask him to move his 
money to a safe account. He adds that he checked the account details he sent his money to 
and saw it was not an account with Monzo. It was at this point, Mr Z realised hed been the 
victim of a scam. 
That evening Mr Z contacted Monzo on the in-app chat function to raise the scam claim. 
Based on the initial information, it appears Monzo asked questions in relation to an account 
takeover. But after asking further questions, it was the early hours of 18 December 2020 that 
Monzo recognised hed fallen victim to a scam. Monzo reached out to the receiving bank to 
see if any funds could be recovered. Unfortunately, it received a response to say no funds 
remained. 
Monzo responded to Mr Zs claim and said it couldnt refund the money hed lost. Monzo 
said it felt Mr Z didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and for what. 
Unhappy, Mr Z brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
evidence provided by both parties but concluded Monzo should have fully reimbursed him 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
In summary:
She said the warning provided prior to the payment didnt meet the definition of an 
effective warning as set out in the CRM Code. When considering the warning 
Monzo said Mr Z wouldve seen had he selected the correct reason for transferring 
the money, she also didnt think this warning was effective even if hed seen it. So, 
she wasnt satisfied Monzo had established Mr Z shouldnt be reimbursed on the 
basis that he ignored an effective warning.
She also didnt think Monzo had been able to establish Mr Z didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was making a legitimate payment to his own, newly set up 
Monzo account. 
For the above reasons, the Investigator found that Mr Z had met his requisite level of care. 
Therefore, Monzo were unable to decline reimbursement under the CRM Code. For 
completeness, our Investigator also considered the payment Mr Z made to be an out of 
character payment for his account. She felt Monzo should have stopped and questioned the 
payment and if it had done so, the loss couldve been prevented. 
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment. Monzo remained of the opinion that 
Mr Z isnt entitled to a refund under the CRM Code because:
Mr Z was shown a high friction warning at the time the payment was made. It 
considers Mr Z ignored the warnings which it feels shows Mr Z was grossly negligent. 
It added Mr Z had a confirmation of payee (CoP) mismatch which meant he wouldve 
had a message to check who he was paying. 
Our Investigators position having considered Monzos further points remained the same. As 
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to reimburse its customer, 
even though the payment was authorised. In considering this, I have taken account of whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Mr Z 
under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have done more to protect 
him from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a level of care on Mr Z, 
and so I have considered whether he met this. 
The CRM Code 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
The customer has been grossly negligent 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Monzo has argued that Mr Z has been grossly negligent. It says that he didnt have 
reasonable grounds to believe that the reason to move the money was genuine. This is 
because the call length was too brief and wouldnt have built up enough of a relationship to 
make him believe this was a legitimate call. 
But I dont think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose to not fully reimburse 
the payment Mr Z made under the terms of the CRM Code. Im not persuaded any of the 
listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code apply in the 
circumstances of this case.
Was there an effective warning?
The CRM Code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum the CRM Code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific. 
Ive looked carefully at Monzos high friction warning screens that it says would have been 
shown to Mr Z at the time he was making the payment to decide whether he ignored an 
effective warning. 
Monzo say Mr Z confirmed that he didnt fully read the warning due to being pressured and, 
it also says he didnt select the correct reason for making the payment. Mr Z told our 
Investigator that whilst he wasnt told by the fraudster what to select, he felt selecting 
something else was the best option. He also said he always uses the option something 
else when making a payment. Whilst Mr Z might wish to give this more consideration in the future when making payments, I cant say this in and of itself is enough to show that Mr Z 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk and was grossly negligent. 
By selecting the payment purpose as something else, this does mean that Mr Z did not see 
the warning most relevant to his circumstances. But in any event, even if Mr Z had seen the 
warning in full, Im not satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were 
met in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why. 
The information that was presented to Mr Z at the top of the something else warning 
prompted him to think about whether a deal seemed too good to be true or not. This wouldnt 
have resonated with Mr Z at the time as it did not apply to the particular scam, he was falling 
victim to. I do note the something else warning also says that the name and phone number 
of legitimate companies can be spoofed or faked. Whilst Mr Z has said he doesnt recall 
seeing this particular part of the warning because he was stressed, Im not persuaded the 
warning would reasonably have prompted Mr Z to reconsider the payment as a result. 
In short, I dont think the information in the warning brings to life what safe account scams 
look and feel like. The warning doesnt explain that fraudsters pose as banks and other 
genuine companies and apply pressure to convince their victims that the money in their 
account is at risk if they dont move them to a safe account. Nor does it talk about the 
prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be. For 
example, it doesnt explain that fraudsters often know personal information and mimic the 
banks processes as a method to convince them that they are genuine. 
Im also mindful that in order for the warning to meet the CRM Codes minimum 
requirements of an effective warning it should clearly set out the consequences of 
continuing with an irrevocable payment. I dont find the warning explains this or makes this 
sufficiently clear. 
Overall, I dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM 
Code. It follows that Monzo has not established it can fairly apply the exception to 
reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mr Z make the payment without a reasonable basis for belief?
I have also carefully thought about Monzos representations about whether Mr Z had a 
reasonable basis for belief. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. I say that 
because:
Prior to the scam call, Mr Z had received a call from someone claiming to be from 
another bank (who he held an account with). Mr Z has said this earlier call was 
similar to previous calls hed received from this bank about activity on his account  
he was asked security questions and asked about specific transactions on that 
account. Mr Z also recollects being placed on hold and hearing hold music  
mimicking a banks processes in this call. When Mr Z received the second call, hes 
explained he was again asked his name and asked to answer security questions. I 
appreciate Monzo feels Mr Z didnt do enough to verify the person he was speaking 
with was from the bank. But in light that Mr Zs experience was similar in both calls, I 
think this likely wouldve added to his belief that this was a legitimate call with his 
bank.  
Im also mindful that in these types of scams, they are designed to generate and instil 
panic in consumers. Taking into account Mr Z had already received a call in relation 
to another of his accounts being compromised that day, I think the second call 
wouldve caused Mr Z concern and added to his belief that his accounts were/might be compromised. Mr Z, himself, has said because of the first call he panicked and 
thought his money was at risk. I dont find this unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr Z made a withdrawal from his Monzo saving account to his current account the 
day before the scam call. This meant at the time of the scam call from Monzo, Mr Z 
was mindful of the higher balance in his account. Because of this, I dont think it 
unreasonable that Mr Z felt his Monzo account was more likely to be at risk of fraud 
and that this wouldve added to him believing his account may have been 
compromised. Im persuaded his awareness of the savings hed recently moved into 
his account, likely wouldve added to his panic and his urgency to protect his money.  
I note Monzos concerns about the duration of the call between the fraudster and 
Mr Z  that the length of the call was brief and so it doesnt think there wouldve been 
enough time to have built up a relationship to believe this was a legitimate call. The 
duration of the call was under 20 minutes and the payment was made in under 10 
minutes into the call. Ive carefully considered this. However, Im mindful that these 
comments/findings are made with the benefit of hindsight. Mr Z had received two 
calls in the same day telling him that his accounts might be at risk. I have to keep in 
mind that the convincing nature of these scams can often have a negative effect on a 
persons thought process and make them take steps that, in the cold light of day they 
might not otherwise take. In the moment and amongst the panic that his money might 
be at risk, I dont think it unreasonable that Mr Z believed he was speaking with his 
genuine bank.   
The fraudster told Mr Z that he was moving his money to another Monzo account in 
his name which would be activated once he received the new card. He was asked to 
put his name as the payment instruction and to use his mothers maiden name as the 
reference. Mr Z has told us that this was one of the answers to his security questions 
on his account, which further persuaded him that he was speaking with the genuine 
Monzo. Monzo has said when Mr Z entered the payee details, he was shown a CoP 
warning that said the payment details were a mismatch. That he wouldve been given 
a message to check who he was paying. The evidence provided, indicates CoP was 
not supported by the receiving bank. Within Monzos submissions it said Mr Z likely 
wouldve seen a message stating it couldnt match the account. Monzo feel Mr Z 
shouldve attempted to check the account details. Ive thought carefully about this 
point, but I dont consider a message stating it could not match the account details to 
be the same as a messaging telling Mr Z that the account details did not match. In 
the absence of any other factors, such as, being asked to make a payment to an 
account in a different name, Im not persuaded Mr Z missed an obvious red flag here. 
The evidence provided by Mr Z shows the number he was called from when making 
the payment to the fraudster was a spoofed number for the other bank, he has an 
account with and not Monzo. Mr Z has said he didnt check the number at the time of 
the call but later that day when he started to question what had happened. Mr Z isnt 
clear how this is the case and maintains at the time of the call he believed he was 
speaking with Monzo. I accept that this might have been a factor that ought to have 
given Mr Z a pause for thought, but as Ive said above, these types of scam can be 
convincing in nature and can often impact a persons thought process. It follows that I 
dont think this aspect in isolation is enough to say Mr Z didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was speaking with his genuine bank when combined with the 
aspects Ive already set out above. 
When weighing everything up, on balance, Im not persuaded Monzo has established Mr Z 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that he was making a legitimate payment. It follows that Im not persuaded the exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to the payment 
Mr Z authorised and that Monzo can choose not to reimburse him.
Has Mr Z been grossly negligent?
Monzo considered Mr Z was grossly negligent. A finding of gross negligence would require a 
very significant degree of carelessness on Mr Zs part. Having considered everything Ive 
seen and been told; Im not satisfied Mr Zs actions or inaction in this case goes far enough 
to meet that very high bar. I dont think he disregarded or acted with indifference towards the 
risk of his bank account being compromised and money being stolen. Mr Z believed he was 
speaking with his bank and that he had to move his money to a safe account in order to 
protect his funds. For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr Zs belief was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Could Monzo have done more to prevent the scam? 
Im mindful that when Mr Z made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably have 
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Our Investigator, having reviewed Mr Zs bank statements considered the payment of £4,400 
to be out of character for his account and noted the payment cleared the majority of the 
available balance. Because of this, she thought Monzo ought to have got in touch and asked 
Mr Z about the payment. Had it done so, she thought the scam couldve been prevented. 
Ive thought carefully about this point. The effect of making a finding on this point is limited, 
given Im upholding the complaint. It primarily affects whether Monzo should pay interest on 
an award. In this case, Mr Z told us he moved the money from his savings account with 
Monzo into his Monzo current account as he was intending to send the money to a close 
family member. So, had Mr Z not lost this money as part of the scam  the money still would 
have left his account as he intended to make the payment to his family member. With this in 
mind, I dont make an interest award recommendation on the money to be refunded to Mr Z. 
And because of this, I dont think I need to make a finding as to whether Monzo should have 
intervened to stop this payment, as Im satisfied it should reimburse Mr Z under the 
provisions of the CRM Code.   
Recovery of funds
Our Investigator, as part of her investigation into this complaint, contacted the receiving 
bank. Following this, she explained £34.23 remained in the receiving account which 
shouldve been returned to Mr Z. £2.55 of this amount was returned to Monzo. Monzo 
refunded this amount on 1 November 2022. Our Investigator arranged for the difference of 
£31.68 to be refunded to Mr Z directly by the receiving bank, which has now been paid to 
him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to;
Reimburse Mr Z the money he lost as part of this scam - £4,400 minus the amount 
recovered of £2.55 and the subsequent further payment of £31.68 which has been 
paid directly to Mr Z by the receiving bank.There was a delay in returning the £2.55 to Mr Z. So Monzo should pay 8% simple 
interest on this amount from the date it ought to have been refunded to Mr Z to the 
date it was paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman