DRN-3021973
The complaint
Mr S complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the misinformation he was 
provided when he enquired about making a balance transfer on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with NWB. In July 2019, NWB offered Mr S a promotional 
0% interest rate on balance transfers to this account. Mr S called NWB to discuss this asked 
whether this balance transfer would impact the interest he was charged on any purchases 
made using the card. Mr S says he was told it wouldnt and so, he transferred £7,000 onto 
the account. But Mr Ss account began to accrue interest. And he wasnt happy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr S didnt think NWB had made it clear to him that having a balance transfer amount on the 
account would cause him to accrue interest on purchases he made. So, he wanted any 
interest charged to be refunded to him. Mr S was also unhappy that payments hed made 
into the account intended to clear his purchase amount had been used to repay some of the 
balance transfer.
NWB responded and didnt agree. They thought the interest had been charged correctly, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. And they thought these terms made it clear 
how any payments made into the account would be used to clear Mr S outstanding 
balances. But as gestures of good will, they refunded Mr S £76.92 worth of interest and 
applied five months worth of interest wavers between September and June 2020 to allow Mr 
S time to reassess his finances and move any balances if he wished. 
In a separate complaint response, NWB also offered Mr S an apology and £50 to 
compensate him for the delay in providing him with a call transcript as hed requested. But 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think NWB had made it 
clear enough to Mr S exactly how the balance transfer would impact the way interest would 
be charged on any purchases he made after it was received into the account. But they 
thought the interest itself had been charged correctly, in line with the terms of the account. 
And they thought the payments Mr S made had also been used to repay his outstanding 
balances correctly.
So, while they didnt think the interest should be refunded, they thought NWB should pay Mr 
S £150 to recognise their failure to provide him with the correct information on the call held in 
July and the upset this caused Mr S.
NWB accepted this recommendation. But Mr S didnt. He didnt think the £150 was enough 
to compensate him for the financial impact of NWBs failure, which left him paying around 
£130 in interest on the account each month. Mr S didnt think hed be paying this had NWB 
acted fairly as he wouldnt have utilised the balance transfer. So, Mr S wanted the 
compensation to be increased. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise that NWB accepted our investigators initial view and recommendation. Within 
this view, our investigator explained they felt NWB didnt make it clear to Mr S on the call 
held in July 2019 that the balance transfer would impact the interest charged on any 
purchases he made. As NWB accepted this and agreed to pay Mr S £150 compensation to 
recognise the upset this failure caused, I think its reasonable for me to assume they 
accepted they acted unfairly. So, I dont intend to discuss this in detail as I dont think this 
point is in dispute.
But for completeness, I can confirm Ive listened to call between Mr S and NWB. And I think 
Mr S made it clear he intended to continue using the card for purchases, referring to a 
holiday he had coming up at the time. While I dont think the information NWB gave Mr S 
was incorrect as they confirmed any payments would be made towards the balance with the 
highest interest rate, I dont think they made it clear that having a balance transfer on the 
card counted towards the total outstanding balance. So, interest would be charged on any 
purchases he made, whether or not these purchases were cleared by payments he made.
And I also dont think it was made clear on this call that any payments Mr S made would be 
counted towards the previous statements balance. So, any purchases made after the 
statement had been generated wouldnt be counted. Because of this, I dont think NWB 
made Mr S reasonably aware that if he made payments higher than the purchase amount 
shown on the previous months statement, the surplus would go to his balance transfer.
For these reasons, I think NWB failed to provide Mr S with reasonably clear information in 
answer to the questions he asked. And I think this influenced his decision to proceed with 
the balance transfer. So, as I think NWB acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think 
NWB should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Im aware Mr S doesnt think the £150 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
enough to recognise the financial impact hes felt, due to the amount of interest hes been 
charged. But for me to say this interest should be refunded, Id need to be satisfied that it 
was charged incorrectly. And I dont think it was.
Although I dont think NWB were clear enough in their phone conversation with Mr S, I think 
the terms and conditions of Mr S account are. And these explain:
 Your statement will show a balance and a payment date. If you pay the full balance and 
also paid the full balance on the previous months statement by the relevant payment dates, 
you will not have to pay interest on Purchases. 
As Mr S balance transfer was outstanding on the account, Mr S was not paying the total 
account balance in full. So, I think this makes it clear to Mr S that any purchases he made 
would accrue interest. And I think NWB acted fairly, and correctly, by charging interest as 
this term explains.Despite this, Ive seen that NWB waived a total of five months interest, as well as refunding 
£76.92 in interest charges as a gesture of good will, in order to allow Mr S to restructure his 
finances and clear his outstanding balance by payment or transfer if he wanted to prevent 
future interest charges. I think this action was more than reasonable, considering the interest 
had been charged on the account in line with its terms.
Im aware Mr S interest charges per months increased and he states hes now paying 
around £130 a month, so the £150 only reflects on months interest payment which he feels 
is unfair. But I think Mr S was told in September 2019 why he was being charged interest 
and he was given sufficient time to restructure his finances if he wanted to do so. And I can 
see that Mr S balance transfer promotional rate was for a period of 12 months. So, the 
balance has been accruing interest since this expired and I think Mr S wouldve been aware 
this would happen. And I can see that this balance transfer amount, and the interest its 
accruing, accounts for most of the interest Mr S is paying per month. So, I think it was Mr S 
own decision to allow the balance transfer to remain on the account and accrue interest after 
the promotional rate expired and I wouldnt expect NWB to refund this interest nor do I think 
this should be a factor when I consider what a fair amount of compensation should be.
The terms and conditions also explain:
You cannot choose how a payment is applied to your account. We apply any payments you 
make to your account in the following order:
 to reduce sums shown on your most recent monthly statement, according to their interest
rates, with the highest rate paid first; and
 if any payment exceeds your most recent monthly statement balance, the excess will then 
be applied to reduce sums charged to your account but not yet shown on any monthly 
statement.
So, when Mr S made payments onto the account greater than the previous statements 
purchase amount, the surplus was then used to pay his balance transfer balance as this was 
also shown on the previous statement. And I can see this is what NWB have done, so I think 
theyve acted in line with the terms.
I recognise Mr S may not have been aware of this and he assumed payments he made 
would be used to pay the purchases he was making. But I think these terms make it 
reasonably clear if Mr S made a payment intended it to cover a purchase that had not yet 
been billed on a statement, this would go to any outstanding balance on the previous 
statement in order of interest rate.
So, while I dont think NWB made this information reasonably clear to Mr S in the call they 
held, I do think the interest charged on the account and the way payments were allocated fell 
in line with the terms of the account. Because of this, I dont think any refunds should be 
applied to Mr S account and instead, I think NWB should compensate Mr S for any upset 
hes been caused.
And I think its clear Mr S has been left confused by the way interest has been charged and 
how the balance transfer impacted this. And I think Mr S wouldve been left frustrated when 
he realised he couldnt use his account as hed intended when hed made the balance 
transfer. 
But I also have to consider the fact Mr S has been given the chance to restructure his 
account without interest being applied and has chosen not to do so. And the interest now 
being applied is largely due to the balance transfer remaining on the account after the 
promotional rate has expired. So, when considering all this together, I think the £150 recommended by the investigator is a 
fair one and in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. So, I think 
NWB should pay Mr S £150 to recognise the upset hes been caused by the situation.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But I hope my reasoning clearly 
explains my rationale regarding the compensation amount and why I think its fair in these 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr S £150 to recognise their failure to explain clearly the impact making a 
balance transfer would have on the use of his account and the interest it accrues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman