DRN-3501334
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Zurich Insurance Company has recorded a fault claim against him after 
his car was hit whilst parked.
What happened
Mr S car was damaged whilst parked. The party responsible left the scene and it 
wasnt possible for them to be traced.
Mr S made a claim through his insurer, Zurich, who settled the claim. But because 
Zurich was unable to recover its outlay from the third party, the claim was recorded 
as a fault claim, affecting Mr S no claims bonus.
Mr S doesnt feel this is fair. He said he wasnt at fault and its unfair hes been 
affected in this way. Hes suggested Zurich should record the claim as non-fault and 
pursue the unidentified driver through the Motor Insurance Bureaus (MIB) Untraced 
Driver Agreement.
Mr S also complains about the customer service he received from Zurich. He says he 
wasnt told the claim would be recorded as a fault claim and there were delays in the 
handling of his claim.
Zurich has accepted the level of service it provided fell short and has paid Mr S £150 
compensation. But it maintains the way the claim has been recorded is correct in the 
circumstances.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said Zurich had recorded the claim correctly and the compensation it had paid 
was enough to fairly reflect the level of service Mr S received.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Whether or not a fault claim is recorded depends on whether the insurer has 
recovered its outlay or not. A non-fault claim is always a zero cost to the 
policyholders insurance company.
Zurich settled Mr S claim and was unable to recover its costs. So, its normal that the 
claim would be recorded as a fault claim, and that Mr S no claims discount would be 
affected in these circumstances. This is supported by the terms and conditions of his 
policy, which explain that his no claims discount will only be protected in the event 
the third party can be traced and costs recovered.
Mr S was covered, under his insurance policy, for the damage to his car. This means 
the MIB Untraced Driver Agreement would not cover the claim, despite it not being 
his fault. So, Zurich hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not exploring this 
further.
I agree that there were some service and communication issues. But the outcome of 
the claim and the way its been recorded are correct. And although there were some 
delays, the claim was settled in around three and a half months. So, taking 
everything into account, I think the £150 paid by Zurich is sufficient to compensate 
Mr S for the impact of its mistakes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Zurich Insurance Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman