DRN-3845009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim 
for storm damage under their home insurance.
Mr and Mrs P bought their policy through an insurance intermediary. The intermediary used 
a third party company to handle Mr Ps claim. Most of Mr Ps correspondence has been with 
either the intermediary or the claims handling company, rather than directly with Acromas. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Acromas includes its agents, including the 
intermediary and the claims handling company.
Both Mr and Mrs P are named policyholders on their Acromas policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr P, Ill refer mainly to Mr P from here onward.
What happened
Mr P had an Acromas home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In June 2002, 
he noticed damage to the fascia and soffit on the roof at the rear of his home. When the cost 
of repairs was higher than he expected, Mr P made a claim on his home insurance. 
Mr P believed the damage must have happened during the storms that hit the UK in early 
2022. However, Acromas declined the claim. It told Mr P there were no storm conditions 
around the time of his claim. It concluded the damage was due to poor maintenance and 
wear and tear, not a storm, so wasnt covered by his policy. Mr P was unhappy with this and 
brought his complaint to this service. He wants Acromas to settle his claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
the damage had been mainly caused by the storm, so she thought it was reasonable for 
Acromas to decline the claim. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mr Ps cover only makes Acromas liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events, listed in his policy. Page 17 of Mr Ps policy booklet shows hes covered for 
loss or damage caused by a storm. The booklet defines a storm as, among other things, 
wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph). 
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Acromas has maintained there were no storm conditions at the time of Mr Ps claim. 
However, when Mr P first reported the damage  and in all subsequent correspondence  he 
was clear that he thought it happened during the UKs winter storms. So Acromas argument 
that there were no storm conditions around the time of Mr Ps claim isnt entirely relevant.
The Met Office information for the 2021/22 storm season shows that storms Corrie, Dudley, 
Eunice, and Franklin hit the UK in January/February 2022. Weather records for the area 
where Mr P lives show winds of 67mph on 18 February 2022 (storm Eunice), as well as 
around 50mph on 20/21 February 2022 (storm Franklin). So Im satisfied that there were 
storm conditions where Mr P lives.
Second, I think its reasonable to think a storm might cause damage to a roof. Local news 
reports of storm Eunice mention damage to roofs, as well as trees and power lines brought 
down.
So the last question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Generally, its for the policyholder to show that damage was caused by an insured event. 
Thats particularly important in this case because Mr P said he believes the damage 
occurred over four months before he reported it. 
Mr P hasnt provided an expert report showing that the damage was caused by a storm. We 
asked him to send any evidence from the builder who carried out repairs, for example a 
schedule of works or an invoice. The only thing Mr P was able to provide was the original 
quote from his builder, dated 5 July 2022. This says: Quote for repairs to storm damaged 
rear fascia at [Mr Ps] property. 
Although the quote mentions storm damage, I dont see how Mr Ps builder could have 
concluded this without inspecting the roof. I also note that the only other work listed in the 
quote is to replace guttering. Theres no mention of damage to roof tiles which might be 
expected following a storm.
Ive thought about what was discussed during the initial call to report the claim. Acromas told 
Mr P it would send its supplier to inspect the damage. It didnt do this. It told us this was 
because it concluded the damage was caused by wear and tear, based on photos it received 
from Mr P. 
Ive studied these photos and find it difficult to see how Acromas could have reached that 
conclusion. While they show the soffit has come loose, Im not sure how it could have 
concluded this was due to wear and tear rather than a one-off storm event.
However, as Ive said, its up to Mr P to show the damage should be covered by his policy. I 
dont think hes done so. On balance, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that the 
damage was caused by a storm more than four months earlier. While Mr P says he hadnt 
noticed it before, its just as possible the fascia/soffit had come away from the roof more 
recently. While I think Acromas could have handled Mr Ps claim better, I dont think its 
decision to decline it was unfair. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman