DRN-2311745
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited because it didnt pay his 
claim in full. 
What happened
Mr S was afforded income protection by his employer. The insurer is L&G. Mr S became 
unwell in February suffering with extreme stress, he did manage to return to work in January 
2020. He claimed on the policy, but it was initially declined. Then L&G changed its position in 
May 2020 and made a retrospective payment to cover the period from 11 July  25 October 
2019. 
Mr S said L&G should pay the whole claim, from when the deferral period ended up until he 
was well enough to return to work in January. 
L&G said, in summary, that on reflection, Mr S met the definition of incapacity, but only for 
the period mentioned above. It clarified that stress is not an illness, which is why it initially 
declined his claim, and that it stopped paying Mr S claim because after a desktop 
assessment, it was satisfied Mr S was well enough to return to work. 
Our investigator didnt think this was right. He said that the evidence L&G relied on to stop 
making payments didnt demonstrate that he was able to carry out the duties of his role. He 
recommended L&G pay Mr S claim in full from 28 May 2019, which means the deferral 
period begins the day he became unwell and up until 6 January. He also awarded £250 
compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused.  
L&G disagreed. In summary, it stood by the information it discovered on social media 
because it felt strongly that this proved Mr S was able to return to work. It suggested he was 
perhaps avoiding work because of perceived problems at work. It also mentioned that mile 
or moderate symptoms related to Mr S medical condition should not preclude him from 
work. And so, its for me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint because Im satisfied Mr S evidence 
showed that he met the medical threshold of severity due to the on-going medical condition 
he was suffering. I think L&G treated Mr S unfairly by stopping his benefit. Ill explain why.
L&Gs terms say an individual must be incapacitated by illness or injury from carrying out 
their own occupation throughout the deferred period. It accepted, retrospectively, that Mr S 
was incapacitated. Mr S suffered, initially, from extreme stress which caused symptoms of 
memory loss, anxiety, emotive behaviour and worry. This was further defined by the CBT 
specialist as a severe level of depression and moderately severe levels of anxiety. Because 
of this, Im also satisfied that Mr S was suffering with a medical condition and given 
comments of the CBT specialist, this was severe enough to preclude him from work. 
The issue here is that L&G decided not to pay benefit beyond October 2019 because of the 
information it discovered on social media. Mr S had effectively advertised his services in an 
occupational capacity to his contacts. L&G said this was enough to demonstrate that he was 
no longer incapacitated and so when it made its retrospective payment, it didnt pay benefit 
beyond that point. 
I think its important to consider the wider context of what was happening around that time. 
L&G had declined Mr S claim saying he wasnt incapacitated which wasnt the case. Mr S 
had been suffering with severe depression and anxiety  alongside the extreme levels of 
stress. This was triggered by his marriage breakdown, the loss of his children, additional 
family problems, and dealing with some serious health concerns. Mr S, his GP and the 
occupational therapist felt he was too unwell to fulfil his obligations as a Strategic Director. 
Mr S said his job required a high level of concentration and was mentally very demanding. 
The reason Ive highlighted this is because Mr S, by October, had been without a salary and 
was falling behind with his priority bills. L&G had unfairly declined his claim and so I think he 
had little choice but to try and find an income. I note the evidence also said that he was 
happy to work for minimum living wage, or less. I think this adequately demonstrates that he 
was in a desperate position and was willing to take any work he could find to try to stabilise 
his difficult position. Mr S subsequently explained that he felt he had no choice but to try and 
find a job that paid significantly less because this would likely have meant lower levels of 
work-related stressor attached. 
I see the connection L&G is attempting to make here, but Im not persuaded this means Mr S 
no longer met the definition of incapacity for the reasons Ive explained. I also think its 
important to note that Mr S didnt work any other occupation during that time. Further, the 
policy is an own occupation policy. This means Mr S incapacity is assessed against the 
criteria of his insurer occupation. And given Mr S was effectively seeking lower-level jobs, for 
considerably less money, I think that shows he was still unable to fulfil the demands and 
requirements of his role as Strategic Director. 
So, without any persuasive evidence that shows Mr S was no longer incapacitated from 
October 2019 I think its fair that L&G pay the remainder of the claim. L&G said that mild or 
moderate symptoms should not preclude Mr S from work, but Im unclear on the medical 
grounds that statement would stand. The symptoms Mr S experienced were enough to 
preclude him from work. Therefore, I agreed with our investigator that the deferred period 
should also begin from the first date of absence.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr S complaint and Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must now 
pay the outstanding claim as described above. It must also pay £250 for the overall trouble 
and upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman