DRN-1722598
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited (BG) changed his communication 
preferences, leading to threats of debt collection after he missed its payment requests.
What happened
Mr S had Homecare with Central Heating cover with BG. He made a claim under his policy 
which had a £50 excess. Although BG usually takes payment of the excess when a callout is 
requested, on this occasion it didnt.
Mr S paid his premiums by Direct Debit as usual but two months later, while on holiday, he 
received a payment demand by text message. He immediately paid the £50 excess.
On his arrival home, Mr S found that BG had sent him a payment demand before it sent him 
the text. The letter said that the outstanding amount would be passed for debt collection if 
not paid within seven days. Mr S contacted BG and found out that it had sent him an invoice 
and chaser by email before sending the letter, followed by the text. 
Mr S complained that the process was flawed and should be changed. He said that if BG 
had sent him the invoice by post in the first place, he wouldve paid immediately. BG looked 
into his complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It told Mr S that he had an 
online, paperless account so sending the invoice and payment reminder by email was 
reasonable. He disagreed, saying that hed never asked for an online account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although she initially thought that BG hadnt done 
anything wrong, Mr S disagreed. He provided further evidence showing that the email BG 
sent to him about an online account was for his gas supply. Mr S also provided emails from 
BG showing that he hadnt accepted an online account. So, our investigator thought that 
BGs failure to use Mr Ss preferred method of contact had caused him inconvenience and 
upset, which warranted £100 compensation. 
BG disagreed because it thought the amount was excessive and offered £50. Mr S declined 
its offer.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
I understand that Mr S would like BG to change its process for debt collection and Im aware 
that our service has already explained that its not something we can require. However, I 
dont think its a flawed process which caused this complaint. BG requested payment by 
sending two emails, one letter and a text in that order. I think four requests by three different 
methods over one month is a reasonable process, and I dont necessarily think Mr S would 
disagree with that. The first two requests - the invoice and the reminder  were sent by 
email. His preferred method of contact was letter. BGs third contact was by letter, but the 
timing was unfortunate, and it arrived at Mr Ss home while he was away on holiday. But Mr 
Ss point is that if BG had used his preferred method of contact from the start, he wouldve 
received the invoice and paid it immediately. 
I cant agree with Mr S that the process itself is flawed  the process BG followed seems 
reasonable for someone with a paperless preference. But Mr S preferred contact by letter, 
so I dont think it was a reasonable process to follow here.
That brings me to the next point, which is why BG communicated with Mr S using paperless 
methods. I can see that BG provided evidence that it had Mr Ss account set as online. 
However, Mr S has provided several emails from BG dating back as far as 2010 which show 
that he repeatedly ignored requests to move to an online account. The final email says that 
as he didnt activate an online account, BG would continue to communicate by post. This 
evidence persuades me that he didnt want, or think he had, an online account, so BG 
shouldve contacted him by letter. 
BG says Mr S received annual policy renewal emails. I accept that point. However, having 
his communication preference set as letter doesnt mean Mr S would refuse to open emails. I 
think its fair to say it just means he wouldnt necessarily see the emails promptly, or place as 
much importance on them as he would for letters. He found the two unread emails after 
seeing the demand letter and after he had already paid the excess on receipt of the text 
message. So Mr S isnt saying he didnt receive the emails  hes just saying he wouldnt 
have been looking out for them.
Mr S was concerned about the impact this matter wouldve had on his credit file. BG 
confirmed that it didnt send any information to external organisations, so the delayed 
payment isnt documented on his credit file. BG also said it has returned his communication 
preference to letter.
In summary, I think BG followed a reasonable process for an online account, but it failed to 
make sure that Mr Ss communication preferences were set up correctly. Because of this, 
the payment demand and debt collection process used here was applied incorrectly. Mr S 
was concerned about the impact on his credit file and I can understand that, even though BG 
later confirmed that it didnt refer the matter externally for debt collection. 
For the reasons Ive given, I think Mr S wouldve experienced unnecessary worry and upset 
throughout this matter. So I think its appropriate for BG to pay compensation. BG offered 
£50 after our initial investigation, but I think £100 is fair in the circumstances. Ill be asking 
BG to pay £100 in recognition of its failure to maintain communication preferences on Mr Ss 
account properly, leading to unnecessary worry about payment demands which couldve 
been avoided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that British Gas Services Limited should 
pay Mr S £100 compensation in recognition of the unnecessary worry and upset caused by 
its failure to maintain accurate communication preferences on Mr Ss account, leading to 
payment demands which couldve been avoided.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman