DRN-2741234
The complaint
Mr G complains that when he applied to open a student account with Nationwide Building 
Society, they cancelled the application in error. He made a subsequent application that 
Nationwide declined due to the number of credit searches on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G applied for a student account, but Nationwide cancelled the application in error. Mr G 
re-applied again shortly after, but Nationwide declined this application because of the 
number of credit searches on his other accounts. Mr G spoke with Nationwide on the 
telephone and they said they would investigate things for him but didnt call back as agreed.
Mr G complained to Nationwide and they upheld his complaint. They apologised for 
cancelling his initial application in error and agree they hadnt called him back after reviewing 
the second application to provide him with an update. Nationwide accepted Mr G had raised 
concerns about the way theyd dealt with his applications and apologised they hadnt dealt 
with them as a complaint at the time. Nationwide told Mr G he should apply to open a basic 
account as this would prevent further searches being registered on his account. And 
Nationwide confirmed they would remove the searches already completed from his credit 
file. They paid Mr G £200 to recognise the inconvenience and worry they had caused him 
during the application process.
Mr G later complained to Nationwide that a further credit search had appeared on his credit 
file and that the previous searches hadnt been removed as promised. Nationwide 
responded to Mr Gs further concerns and apologised that theyd incorrectly told him no 
further search would be needed to open his student account. Nationwide paid Mr G a further 
£50 to recognise the additional impact this had on him.
Mr Gs student account was opened shortly after Nationwides final response.
Mr G didnt think the combined payment of £250 from Nationwide was a reasonable remedy 
and brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Mr G 
and thought the amount Nationwide paid him fairly recognised the inconvenience he 
experienced.
Mr G doesnt agree that £250 was enough to adequately compensate him for the catalogue 
of Nationwides errors over a three-month period. He says that Nationwide told him to close 
an interest paying account as a pre-requisite of opening his student account. Mr G says that 
if he had done this he wouldve lost interest and its likely a further credit search wouldve 
been required. Mr G says the compensation appears to have no regard for the 10 hours or 
more of time he spent on telephone calls with Nationwide trying to resolve the matters. He 
feels the whole episode was chaotic and stressful and asked that an ombudsman decides 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances surrounding this complaint arent in dispute. Mr G applied for a student 
account with Nationwide, who already held another type of account for him. It took from the 
end of August to November for the account to be opened. Nationwide accept they cancelled 
the first application in error, provided Mr G with wrong information and didnt delete the credit 
searches as quickly as they shouldve. Where Mr G and Nationwide disagree is whether the 
amount of compensation Nationwide paid adequately reflects the impact on him.
I understand Mr G will be disappointed, but Im satisfied the compensation of £250 
Nationwide paid him was reasonable and is a fair remedy in the circumstances of the 
complaint. I will now explain why.
I would expect Nationwide to put matters right as quickly as they could, but their errors on 
the first two applications meant that Mr G had to contact them on several occasions. 
Nationwide accept this included several telephone calls that Mr G shouldnt have needed to 
make if things had gone smoothly. So, I would expect any remedy offered to reflect the 
inconvenience this caused Mr G. And Im satisfied from reading the responses to Mr Gs 
complaints that Nationwide recognised this in the compensation they paid.
Mr G says that if hed followed the advice from Nationwide to close his interest paying 
account, he wouldve suffered a financial loss. I appreciate the point Mr G makes here, but 
he didnt close the account, so there was no loss of interest and therefore no financial loss. 
But I would expect the compensation paid by Nationwide to reflect the information they 
provided was incorrect. Ive seen the responses from Nationwide explain they took this into 
account within their payment of £250. Therefore, Im satisfied the compensation paid by 
Nationwide also reflects the incorrect information they provided to Mr G during the 
application process.
Ive seen that Nationwide have removed two of the searches they recorded against Mr G; 
one from August and one from September. In this regard, this puts Mr G in the position he 
wouldve been in if the application had proceeded without any errors from Nationwide. I 
consider that this is also part of the remedy Nationwide completed, but I would expect them 
to recognise the inconvenience and upset this caused Mr G. And, Im satisfied that the 
responses from Nationwide reflect this inconvenience was considered when they paid him 
£250.
Mr G feels the compensation Nationwide paid doesnt reflect the impact on him. However, 
taking all the circumstances of this case into account, Im satisfied the £250 reflects the 
inconvenience Mr G suffered was more than just minor. It reasonably reflects the application 
process went on for several weeks before it was resolved, that Mr G had to spend more time 
than he shouldve chasing Nationwide to resolve the issues of the applications, and for 
confirmation the searches had been removed from his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman