DRN-2872490
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have unfairly declined his legal 
expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr K holds a legal expenses insurance policy with Amtrust. He made a claim for assistance 
with a legal dispute he had with his employer for discrimination. Amtrust initially declined his 
claim, but subsequently agreed to reassess it following intervention by this service in 
September 2020. 
However, after reassessing Mr Ks claim, Amtrust said it still did not meet the policy 
requirements for cover as it didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success due to the three-
month Employment Tribunal deadline having passed.
Mr K complained that it was Amtrusts wrongful declination of his claim that caused him to 
miss the Employment Tribunal deadline. He says that if they had accepted his claim sooner, 
he would have been able to register his claim within three months. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Amtrust could fairly be held 
responsible for the time limit expiring because Mr K could have taken action himself to 
protect his employment claim while awaiting the outcome of his case against the insurer for 
legal funding. Mr K disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that Mr Ks claim could potentially have been made within the 
Employment Tribunal deadline if Amtrust had accepted his claim sooner. However, I 
cant ignore that Mr K could have also acted within the time limit himself to protect his 
claim with the Employment Tribunal; he didnt need a solicitor to do this for him. So 
while I acknowledge that he was waiting for the outcome of his claim with the insurer, 
Im not persuaded that he has reasonably acted to mitigate his losses in these 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mr K had contacted ACAS to begin the conciliatory process, and 
had also received his early conciliation certificate. However, this would not have 
stopped the time limit from running for registering his claim in the Employment 
Tribunal, but is a necessary preliminary step that needs to be taken before a claim 
can be registered. I also appreciate that he was told his case would incur costs of 
around £30,000. But this was in relation to legal fees. Mr K did not have to pay a fee 
to make a claim to the Employment Tribunal, and just had to submit an ET1 claim 
form to register his claim, which he wouldve been able to do after receiving his 
ACAS early conciliation certificate. 
There are various free online resources that offer advice and guidance on submitting 
an ET1 form, such as the Citizens Advice Bureau and ACAS, whom Mr K consulted. I 
can also see that after issuing its early conciliation certificate, ACAS told him on 
3 March 2020: It is your responsibility to ensure that any tribunal claim is submitted 
on time. So Im satisfied it would have been possible for Mr K to have registered the 
claim himself while awaiting the outcome of his legal expenses claim, and I also think 
he ought reasonably to have known that it was his responsibility to do this based on 
what he had been told by ACAS. I therefore dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold the insurer responsible for his lost opportunity of registering his 
claim with the Tribunal when he didnt take act to protect it. 
Amtrusts panel solicitors advised that they didnt think the Tribunal would exercise its 
discretion to extend the limitation period, so they didnt think the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success, which is a requirement for cover under the policy. 
Amtrust is entitled to rely on the advice of appropriately qualified legal professionals 
about whether his claim had reasonable prospects. And Mr K has not submitted any 
contrary evidence to suggest that his claim does have reasonable prospects of 
success. So Im satisfied that Amtrust has declined the claim fairly and reasonably as 
Mr Ks claim does not meet the requirements for cover in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, and Im sorry to hear of the difficult 
circumstances he has experienced. But Im not persuaded that Amtrust have done anything 
substantially wrong here, so I will not be directing them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman