DRN-3439249
The complaint
Mr S complains about not being permitted to trade shares  buy and sell GameStop (GME) 
and Alpine 4 Holdings Inc (ALPP) shares  using his Trading 212 Limited share trading 
account. As a consequence, he says hes suffered significant financial losses. 
What happened
Mr S says that on 27 January 2021, he couldnt access his account which prevented him 
from trading. This resulted in him being unable to buy and sell GME and ALPP shares, which 
meant he lost out financially. He believes Trading 212 had manipulated market prices. 
Trading 212 explained that there was a period of downtime on the trading platform, for some 
users on 27 January 2021. This was due to unprecedented demand on the service 
corresponding with the opening of the US market. This particularly effected GME (and AMC) 
shares. 
Trading 212 also explained that on 28 January 2021 it made the decision to prevent clients 
from purchasing and selling GME shares (and some other instruments) which were 
experiencing irregular volatility. 
It said these actions had to be taken due to reasons outside of its control. It doesnt accept 
that it had breached its terms and conditions, and it wasnt the only business taking this sort 
of action either. 
Mr S still feels that Trading 212 have acted illegally against the industry regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)  regulations, and that it doesnt have the right to 
mitigate consumer risk. To put things right, Mr S would like compensation for losses arising 
from his inability to trade. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Trading 212 provides a trading platform for shares. Mr S wouldve agreed to Trading 
212s terms and conditions before setting up his account. 
In January 2021, several social media platforms cited high interest in certain shares, 
in particular GME (and AMC), which resulted in the stock market being extremely 
volatile. 
The unprecedented interest in GME caused an extreme strain on the entire trade 
execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading platform. 
Trading 212 explained that outsized trading volumes in shares like GME (and AMC) 
generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Many big 
brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary had to stop accepting buy 
orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This means that 
Trading 212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and 
therefore was unable to offer these shares on its platform.  
Mr S provided screenshots of his attempts to buy GME shares and a thread of an 
email conversation of where other Trading 212 clients couldnt login on 27 January 
2021. 
Based on evidence supplied by Trading 212, it seems there was a period of around 
five hours on 27 January 2021 when it couldnt trade on behalf of its clients. The 
business (repeatedly) contacted its liquidity broker to try and resolve the issue after it 
was made aware. Trading 212 took reasonable steps to execute trades  so meeting 
its obligations to its clients  but there was nothing more it could do. 
On 28 January 2021, due to increased capital requirements of the broker, it informed 
Trading 212 that GME shares would be restricted to sell only. Mr S sent a screenshot 
which reflected this. This restriction was subsequently removed on 29 January 2021. 
Trading 212 also supplied evidence that shows Mr S bought 88 GME shares 
between 25/26 January 2021 including a screenshot of his account which shows that 
he placed numerous limit orders to sell on 26 and 29 January 2021. These sell 
orders were unsuccessful as the price was set between £1,000 and £2,600 which 
wasnt achieved. Mr S eventually sold the shares on 4 February2021. The market 
order was executed as requested but the price achieved wasnt at the high point 
price he was trying to achieve. 
Mr S said that the failings of Trading 212 left him unable to buy/sell his ALPP shares. 
Additional information provided by Trading 212 shows that Mr S purchased ALPP 
shares on 12 January 2021, and sold varying amounts until 20 January 2021, and on 
5 February 2021. 
Mr S concedes that he doesnt have any evidence to show attempts to trade ALPP 
shares during this time, so she cant conclude that Trading 212 is responsible for any 
losses during this time.  
Mr S wasnt able to sell shares during 27 and 28 January 2021. The terms and 
conditions show how Trading 212 can act when matters are outside of its control:
oClause 5.12 states: We shall have the right to introduce new Financial 
instruments and Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to 
suspend and/or remove from the Trading Platform any Financial instrument 
and Market Hours at our sole discretion. 
oClause 5.4 states: We shall not accept Instructions to Deal when: the 
relevant market is closed for trading; or you do not have enough money in 
your account to execute the Transaction; or there are events described as 
Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Trading 212 also provided a statement from the FCA, published on 29 January 2021, 
which said: Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They 
might withdraw their services, in line with customer term and conditions if, for 
instance, they consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to 
greater risk and therefore more likely to need to take such actions during periods of 
abnormally high transaction volumes and price volatility. 
Trading 212 suspended trading of all specific shares due to unforeseeable and 
volatile market conditions. The business hasnt breached its regulatory obligations 
and customer terms and conditions and did all it reasonably could for its clients.      
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said that personally he wasnt satisfied with the investigators view and wanted 
a second opinion, if possible. It wasnt the first time the business has done this  it should 
get a more robust system to cope with increased traffic. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same 
reasons. The view covers all the pertinent points leaving little for me to comment upon. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, in the circumstances, and on 
balance, Im satisfied that it behaved fairly, in accordance with its terms and conditions, and 
in line with the FCA statement issued at the time.
 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S, and Trading 212, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business behaved in the 
way that it did, in response to what could only be described as unprecedented 
circumstances, during which even the FCA issued guidance permitting businesss like 
Trading 212 to act in the way that it did  rather than it behaving in a way that was merely 
convenient to it, because it was permitted to do so by the virtue of its terms and conditions. I 
cant say that it deliberately acted in a way that was contrary to the free market. 
I note that the unprecedented interest and market activity in GME caused an extreme strain 
on the entire trade execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading 
platform. Arguably it was two days with the most trading volume ever in the history of GME, 
so Im sure Mr S will agree that the circumstances were far from normal market conditions. 
Im unable to safely say that even a new system at that point wouldve been able to 
adequately cope what was happening to Trading 212 (and similar businesses) globally. 
I note Trading 212 explained that outsized trading volumes in shares like GME (and AMC) 
generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades (my emphasis). So 
that many big brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary, had to stop accepting 
buy orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This means that Trading 
212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and therefore was unable 
to offer these shares on its platform. I appreciate that Mr S doesnt necessarily agree with 
this, but this explains why the business behaved in the way that it did, rather than this being 
just a whim of its own. On balance, this is also likely to have impacted Mr Ss position 
regarding the ALPP shares. 
The above notwithstanding, I also note Trading 212 supplied evidence that shows Mr S 
bought 88 GME shares between 25/26 January 2021, including a screenshot of his account 
which shows that he placed numerous limit orders to sell on 26 and 29 January 2021. I note 
these sell orders were unsuccessful as the price was set between £1,000 and £2,600 which 
wasnt achieved so couldnt have been actioned. Mr S eventually sold the shares on 4 February 2021. In short, the market order was executed as requested but the price achieved 
wasnt at the high point price Ms S was trying to achieve. 
Im aware Mr S also said that the failings of Trading 212 left him unable to buy/sell ALPP 
shares. I note he explained that theyre his largest holdings on the platform, and that 
combined with market volatility and Trading 212s inability to provide a service the share 
price has dropped by 15%.   
Additional information provided by Trading 212 shows that Mr S purchased ALPP shares on 
12 January 2021, and sold varying amounts until 20 January 2021, and 5 February 2021  
Mr S will be aware that Trading 212 makes clear isnt responsible for market conditions, and 
that overall he may have made a profit.  
This, or the evidence of frustrated Trading 212 users on Twitter notwithstanding, Mr S 
concedes that he doesnt have any evidence (such as screenshots) to show attempts to 
trade ALPP shares during this time, so like the investigator, I cant safely conclude that 
Trading 212 is responsible for any losses he may have suffered during this time.  
I aware that Mr S might have his own theories about why the FCA was involved, and/or why 
Trading 212 did what it did. Im mindful he thinks that it was done to try and deliberately 
reduce the share prices for two days (or some other way to influence the GME share price) 
thus affecting the value of his own portfolio  but thats not something I am able to comment 
upon in this decision. Given the unique and unprecedented set of circumstances, I cant see 
how the FCA, as the industry regulator, couldnt have got involved and issued an urgent 
statement in January 2021. 
I note Trading 212 has an obligation to its clients to take reasonable steps to execute 
orders, but I dont think its actions in this instance contravened that obligation. In other 
words, Im satisfied that Trading 212 did what it reasonably could to try and carry out its 
customers instructions, but due to circumstances outside of its control (as well as Mr Ss 
prices set) simply couldnt fulfil them. In the circumstances I cant blame Trading 212 for this. 
I note that as result of the restrictions on 27 January 2021 (mentioned by the investigator 
above), Trading 212 repeatedly contacted its liquidity broker to try and resolve the issue after 
it was made aware. This is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable steps to execute 
trades  and in my opinion meeting its obligations to its clients  but there was nothing more 
it could do. 
   
I also note, Trading 212 didnt guarantee that it will execute every order, under all 
circumstances, so it hasnt done anything wrong by not being able to do so in this instance. 
As long it has acted fairly, which Im satisfied it has, I dont think Trading 212 has done 
anything wrong. Besides, its terms and conditions, which its entitled to set and which Mr S 
agreed to at the outset, allowed it to suspend trades. Even if I were to find the business had 
done something wrong  which I dont  I couldnt order the business to guarantee access to 
the account for Mr S and all its customers. 
Mr S might also be unhappy that the business suspended only part of its service, removing 
the ability to buy GME shares. Firstly, I think thats a decision that the business is entitled to 
make, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. Its not something 
that I can get involved in. Secondly, and in any event, I think Trading 212 probably had very 
little practical choice in the matter in this instance, as it was reacting to an unprecedented 
global event which was outside of its control.
Im mindful that many big brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary had to 
stop accepting buy orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This means that Trading 212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and 
therefore was unable to offer these shares on its platform.  
I appreciate what Mr S suggests about the question of legality, but Im not specifically 
looking at the legality of the businesss actions, in the same way that a court or arbitration 
panel might. As an informal service which is an alternative to the courts, we decide what is 
fair and reasonable based on all the circumstances.
Despite what Mr S says, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im broadly satisfied that the 
business acted reasonably and in accordance with its terms and conditions. On balance, Im 
not sure that it couldve done things differently. I cant safely say that 
 
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman