DRN-3957962
The complaint
Ms M complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) handling of her travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Ms M had a travel insurance policy insured by IPA. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the claims handler. As IPA has accepted its accountable for the actions of the 
claims handler, in my decision any reference to IPA includes the actions of the claim 
handler.
While Ms M was on a trip abroad in December 2021 she lost her passport and incurred  
accommodation, travel and other costs to obtain a replacement passport. She claimed for 
those costs on the policy.
In April 2022 Ms M complained to us that shed sent many chasing emails to IPA but it hadnt 
given any substantive response or paid her claim. She wants IPA to pay her claim. 
After Ms M complained to us IPA accepted it had delayed in assessing the claim and paid 
her £150 compensation for her distress or inconvenience caused by its delay. IPA said it 
would assess the claim.
In September 2022 IPA paid Ms M a total of £375 for her claim. The breakdown of the claim 
payment was:
£100 for the costs of the replacement passport, which IPA said was the policy limit, 
and
£400 for Ms Ms additional travel and accommodation costs due to replacing the 
passport, which IPA said was the policy limit 
minus the £125 policy excess. 
In addition IPA offered Ms M a further £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience due to its further delay. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said her costs had included hotels, meals, return travel and costs to 
the embassy for a replacement passport. Shed also lost her wallet and bag.
Our investigator said:
The policy limits meant IPA had fairly settled the claim for the replacement passport 
and related additional travel and accommodation costs.
IPAs new total offer of £250 compensation for Ms Ms distress and inconvenience 
was reasonable.
IPA said Ms M hadnt included a lost bag and wallet on her original claim form. Our 
investigator sent IPA those details Ms M had sent us for IPA to assess. 
Ms M remains unhappy and wants an ombudsmans decision so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide if:
IPAs settlement of Ms Ms claim for her replacement passport and related 
accommodation and travel costs was fair and reasonable, and
IPAs new offer of compensation for Ms Ms distress and inconvenience due to its 
delay in assessing her claim was fair and reasonable.
We dont assess claims, thats for an insurer to do. IPA has told us it will assess Ms Ms new 
claim for her bag and wallet. IPA should contact Ms M to tell her its decision about that claim 
for those items. If shes unhappy about IPAs decision about that claim she will need to make 
a new complaint to IPA. If the parties cant agree she can ultimately make a separate 
complaint to us about that matter.
I think IPA fairly and reasonably settled Ms Ms claim for the costs of her replacement 
passport and related accommodation and travel costs. Ill explain why.
The policy terms, conditions and limits set out the contract of insurance between Ms M and 
IPA. The policy document under the heading personal money, passport and documents 
says:
What is covered
1. We will pay you up to the amounts shown below for the accidental loss of, theft of 
or damage to documents
The maximum we will pay for the following items is
c. £100 fordocuments (including the cost of the emergency replacement or 
temporary passport or visa obtained outside your home area)
2. We will pay you up to £400 for reasonable additional travel and accommodation 
expenses necessarily incurred outside your home area to obtain a replacement of 
your passport or visa which has been lost, stolen or destroyed outside your home 
area.
So the policy terms are clear that IPA is only liable for:
Up to £100 for Ms Ms costs for an emergency replacement or temporary passport, 
and 
Up to £400 for Ms Ms costs for additional travel and accommodation she paid to 
obtain a replacement passport.
Those policy limits are also clearly set out in the benefit table in the policy document. The 
benefit table is also clear Ms M has to pay a £125 excess under this policy section.
The policy doesnt cover the food and drink costs Ms M has claimed.
Ms M paid more for her replacement passport and related accommodation and travel costs 
than IPA paid her. But Im satisfied that IPA acted within the policy terms, conditions and limits and fairly and reasonably in settling Ms Ms claim for those costs at £375. IPA doesnt 
need to pay more than its already paid for those costs. 
Ms M made the claim at the end of December 2021 and IPA assessed the claim in 
September 2022. IPA accepts the nine months it took to assess Ms Ms claim was much too 
long, and I think it was too long. IPAs already paid Ms M £150 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience due to its delay. After Ms M complained to us IPAs now offered another 
£100 in compensation, so a total of £250 which I think is a fair and reasonable amount in all 
the circumstances. As IPA made the offer after our involvement I partly uphold this 
complaint. 
I should add that IPAs payment/offer of compensation for Ms Ms distress and 
inconvenience is completely separate to its claim payment of £375.
Putting things right
IPA must pay Ms M £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its delay 
in addition to the £150 compensation its already paid, as IPA has now offered to do.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Ms M £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its delay in addition to the £150 
compensation its already paid, as its now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman