DRN-4033984
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and the decision to decline 
part of the claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Mrs M has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made by either Mrs M or 
Mr M as Mrs M throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs M held a home insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. Unfortunately, in January 2022, 
Mrs M discovered significant moisture in her loft which had caused mould to grow on the 
items being stored within it. Upon investigator, a cannabis farm was found in the 
neighbouring loft and it was found this is what has created the increase in moisture.
On 24 January, after the farm had been found, Mrs M contacted UKI to make a claim on her 
policy for the contents that had been damaged. This included a significant Lego collection, 
that Mrs M and her family had been storing as an investment. 
UKI instructed a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as S, to inspect the property. S compiled a 
report and during this process, offered Mrs M 25% of the Lego value. But Mrs M wanted the 
total collectors value of the Lego and she compiled a spreadsheet detailing what she felt this 
Lego was worth.
UKI considered this aspect of Mrs Ms claim at length. But they noted Mrs M had disposed of 
the boxes which had been damaged by the moisture. And they noted Mrs Ms admittance 
that she had removed the Lego bricks from both the box, and its plastic packaging, to clean 
it due to the mould that had been caused by the moisture. So, UKI felt the Lego could no 
longer be valued as collectible, as it had been removed from its packaging and so would 
now be classified as used. And as Mrs M was unable to provide evidence that showed the 
Lego had been stored sealed, in its original boxes, they didnt think they were able to 
validate Mrs Ms claim for the Legos worth as a collectible. So, they declined Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M raised a complaint about this. She didnt think UKIs decision to decline the claim was 
fair and she referred to UKIs decision to pay her claim for her TV stored in the same loft, 
without needing to show a TV was actually in the box she sent a photo of. She didnt think 
UKI were reasonable to expect her to provide evidence of how the Lego was stored, and she 
thought that as it was accepted she had the Lego in her possession, her claim should be 
accepted and paid.
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined the 
claim fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, based on the specific situation. 
But they did explain that should Mrs M be able to provide any evidence of the Lego sets in 
an unopened/unsealed condition prior to the insured event, she could send it through to 
them for their consideration. Mrs M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt dispute Mrs Ms 
testimony, or the circumstances that led to the claim. And they recognised the damage to the 
contents in Mrs Ms loft was caused through no fault of her own. But they didnt think UKI 
had acted unfairly when declining the claim, based on the terms and conditions of the policy 
Mrs M held. They explained theyd expect UKI to want to validate a claim before paying it. 
And as Mrs M had disposed of the boxes and had no evidence to show the Lego was stored 
within these boxes unopened, they didnt think they could say UKI should do anything more 
on this occasion.
Mrs M didnt agree, providing extensive comments detailing why. These comments included, 
and were not limited to, her belief it was unreasonable to expect her to have photos of all 
the sets before the damage occurred. Mrs M also stated that, if UKI were unwilling to settle 
her claim for the sets as if they were unopened, she thought it was unfair for them not to 
consider paying the value of the sets as opened. And she referred to other aspects of the 
same claim that had been upheld without validation and she queried why additional 
validation seemed to be needed for the Lego sets. As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M. I recognise the 
damaged caused to the contents stored in her loft occurred through no fault of her own. And 
I recognise the upset this wouldve caused, as I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to assume 
her contents would be safely stored within the confines of her own home. So, when UKI 
decided to decline the claim relating to the Lego sets, which had been purchased and stored 
for the investment purposes, I can understand why Mrs M would feel unfairly treated as 
essentially, shes been left with a financial loss she was unable to control.
But for me to say UKI should do something differently, such as accept the claim and pay it in 
part or in full, I first need to be satisfied UKI have done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied UKI failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M held when 
declining the claim. Or, if I think UKI did act within these, that they acted unfairly when doing 
so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly how Ive considered the complaint. Its not my role, nor the role of our service, to re-
underwrite the claim Mrs M made as we dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, its my 
role to consider the actions UKI have taken and decided whether I think these actions were 
fair and reasonable, based on the evidence available to them at the time.
In this situation, I dont think its in dispute that Mrs M was in possession of the Lego sets 
she has claimed for. Or that there was an insurable event for Mrs M to make a claim on. 
What is in dispute is the value of these Lego sets, and whether Mrs M has been able to 
provide sufficient evidence to validate the claim she made.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M held. And I can see under the Claims 
Conditions section it explains that for any claim, Mrs M must Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership or value of the lost or 
damaged item as well as allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the 
damaged items and/or property. 
The policy then goes onto explain that If you dont follow our claim conditions, and this 
negatively affects our position we will reject your claim or be unable to deal with it or we will 
not pay your claim in full.
In this situation, UKI asked Mrs M to provide them with evidence to show the condition of the 
Lego, and whether the boxes were opened or sealed before the damage occurred. And Mrs 
M, at the time of UKIs claim decline, hadnt been able to provide this information.
While I understand why Mrs M feels as though this was an unreasonable request, I think UKI 
were entitled to ask for information as the value of the Lego was impacted significantly by 
whether the boxes were sealed or opened. And without evidence to show the boxes were 
unopened and so, held a collectible value, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly 
when not paying Mrs M the value she feels the Lego held before the damage occurred. And I 
think they acted within the terms of the policy when taking this decision, as I dont think Mrs 
M has been able to follow the claim conditions here.
I also note its not in dispute that after the damage, Mrs M took the decision to open the 
boxes and clean the pieces inside. Mrs M has explained she did this as the pieces 
themselves became mouldy and I can understand why she would do this considering she 
had purchased and stored the Lego for investment purposes. UKI have commented on this 
testimony, explaining their belief that, had the pieces been contained in unopened 
packaging, they wouldnt have encountered mould damage due to the sealed plastic packing 
inside the boxes.
While I cant say for certain whether or not the pieces inside were mouldy, I can understand 
why UKI would take the view that they have. And I also feel that, for Mrs M to realise the 
pieces were mouldy, she wouldve most likely needed to open the boxes to see this. And, 
whether or not the pieces were mouldy, I think it was Mrs Ms own decision to open the 
boxes. By doing so, I think this altered the value of the Lego. UKI have explained their belief 
this opening changed the classification of the Lego sets from collectible to used, and I think 
the opinion theyve reached regarding this is a fair one. And I think this is accepted by Mrs 
M, whose provided her own spreadsheets showing the Lego value before and after a box 
was opened.
I also note Mrs M had disposed of the original boxes that had been damaged by the mould, 
as shed opened the boxes to clear the Lego which Mrs M has said was also impacted by 
the mould. So, these boxes werent able to be quantified or inspected by S when they 
attended the property on UKIs behalf. Because of this, I dont think UKI were allowed to 
access or inspect the damaged items, as the box was a crucial part of the sets and their 
value. And so again, I think UKI have acted fairly when deciding that Mrs M has failed to 
follow the claim conditions set out within the policy.
I do appreciate Mrs M disputes this. And Ive considered all of the comments shes raised at 
length, including her points regarding the validation of other items stored within the loft, such 
as a television. But crucially, the items that were paid out during the claim process wouldnt 
have been able to be used due to the damage they sustained. I dont think the same can be 
said for the Lego, as Mrs M still had all of the pieces available.
And I recognise Mrs M has questioned why UKI wont make a payment for the value of the 
Lego, without the boxes. But I wouldnt expect UKI to do this, as Mrs M still has the Lego 
pieces. So, if she was to receive a payment for the value of these pieces, she would be left in a position of betterment. I would only expect UKI to consider a payment for the value of 
the pieces if these pieces had been lost, stolen or could no longer be used. And I dont think 
thats the case here.
I also want to note Ive seen UKI took a great deal of time and consideration when thinking 
about Mrs Ms claim regarding the Lego. Ive seen notes to show several internal 
conversations where the value of the Lego, and the fact Mrs M was unable to prevent the 
damage, have been thought about at length. But ultimately, without evidence to prove the 
Lego was definitively stored unopened and so, held a higher value than the value the pieces 
themselves are now worth, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly.
Because of the above, while I do recognise the upset that has been caused to Mrs M, and 
the potential financial loss she has suffered due to the damage caused by the moisture in 
her loft, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy, 
when declining the claim. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman