DRN-3957649
The complaint
Mr L complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited allowed more initial fees to 
be taken from a personal pension it set up for him with Aviva, than he agreed it could take.
What happened
Mr L originally took out an Aviva pension on advice from a partner of Positive Solutions 
now Quilter. Ill refer to the business as Quilter in this decision. The suitability of the
investment advice Mr L received is not the subject of this complaint.
An Aviva personalised illustration for Mr L dated 24 September 2012 shows him making a
£80pm net contribution, made up to £100pm by tax relief. The initial fees to the adviser were
stated to be £20 taken from each regular payment for 5 years from the payment start date,
but 0%pa of the fund on an ongoing basis. At that time fees were more commonly known as
commission, so Ill refer to either term in this decision.
It appears that the adviser then applied for Mr Ls pension online. The printout of the data
entered on 25 September shows a fee of 20% of the £100 premium  but there is no field for
an end date to be displayed, or any clarification as to whether the stated premium is net or
gross. The printout contains a declaration that the adviser is applying on Mr Ls behalf and
concludes with an instruction: Please now print off this confirmation and ask your client to
complete and sign the declaration documentation.
Mr L signed the declaration on 25 September that he understood and agreed to Avivas
adviser charge agreement, which said this would be in accordance with your most recent
illustration or as otherwise directed by you and your financial adviser. The agreement
clarified that Aviva made these payments on Mr Ls instruction, and that Aviva was not liable
for interest on late payment. It said any queries regarding those charges including
entitlement to a refund should be referred to the adviser  and that if Mr L unilaterally
stopped the charges he may still be liable to pay them to the adviser. Aviva would give him a
statement every six months showing the charges paid, so that he could alert it to any errors.
My understanding is that the adviser would have posted the signed forms to Aviva. I can see 
he did on 25 September for Mrs L, who was also applying for a pension at the same time as
Mr L and has experienced the same issue in this complaint. Enclosed would have been the
application summary, but not a copy of the illustration. The direct debit mandate was not
required to state what Mr L would be contributing (net) to the pension.
Mr L has only sent us a partial screenshot of a further illustration Aviva generated dated 28
September 2012. But I have seen a full copy of the one issued on that date for his wife,
whose application was largely identical to his. That shows Mrs L would make contributions of
£100pm net (rather than £80), so tax relief would make this up to a gross contribution of
£125pm. Therefore at the same rate of 20%, the monthly fee payable would be £25. No end
date was shown for this fee.
In the advisers suitability letter to Mr L on 2 October 2012, he referred to an illustration he
had given Mr L. He said that the charges had been explained verbally and were outlined in
the illustration. The letter referred to a £100pm premium without specifying if that was net or
gross. But it referred later on to the affordability of Mr L contributing £1,200pa of his own
money to the pension, and said that tax relief was available on the premiums. So, Im
satisfied that the adviser was now referring to £100pm as the net premium in the letter.
Mr L signed a separate fee agreement with Quilter on 12 October 2012 which said it would
collect 20% of Gross premiumsfor a period of five years on a monthly basis.
The adviser later sold his business to a different adviser at around the time the five year
period should have ended. However that adviser was also a representative of Quilter. The
new adviser noticed that the continuing fees were being taken in error when a new system
was introduced in February 2021, giving him easier access to this information. By that time
contact with Mr L had already broken off. So, he instructed Aviva to stop the fees on 11
February. This resulted in Aviva sending confirmation to Mr L.
Quilter says this happened whilst the new adviser was arranging to return the excess
payments to Aviva. However, I can only see that the new adviser emailed Aviva about the
excess amount about an hour after Mr L got in touch to query why hed received the letter
and theyd discussed it on the phone. There is no reference in that email to an ongoing
query. So its not entirely clear what wouldve happened had Mr L not contacted the adviser.
Initially, Avivas response to Quilter  about a month after the issue was logged - was that it
was unable to establish the root cause as to why the [ongoing fees] continue to have been
paid. It later added we may never be able to establish why. It calculated that the
overpayment came to £880 and invited Quilter to return that sum. Quilter immediately
agreed to do this and I understand that it has been credited against Mr Ls policy.
Mr L disagreed with the refund as it was not a multiple of £25 and he thought it should be
£1,000  as he had paid 40 extra payments of £25. It doesnt appear that Quilter took up that
particular dispute on Mr Ls behalf, but Mr L was already in contact with Aviva about it. Mr L
was also seeking the loss of investment growth, and Aviva later told Quilter that it was
arranging for loss assessments to be calculated.
Later, on 10 May Aviva informed Mrs L that it had located the original illustration from its
storage area showing the initial fee ran for a period of 5 years and had added it to the case
file. On 11 May Aviva decided it needed to see further evidence of Quilters original fee
agreement with Mr L. Quilter provided essentially the evidence Ive summarised above. This
led to a final response from Aviva to Mr L on 16 July in which it said Quilter was responsible
for any further losses  on the basis that the printout of the online application didnt specify a
date for the fees to cease.
Some of Avivas final response went into the terms of its own business agreement with
Quilter, which I dont see is relevant to Mr Ls own client relationship with either firm. But it
also suggests that on some of Avivas policies there is no indicated end date for a regular
payment fee (also known as a spread initial adviser charge...)  which would continue until
contributions stopped, the client or adviser cancelled it or Mr L reached age 75. (However, I
can see that Avivas internal notes indicate that it might have stopped the initial charge at an
outer limit of 10 years, rather than the longer term to Mr Ls normal retirement age.)
Quilter disagreed. It said it was Avivas responsibility to ensure the performance of Mr Ls
pension hadnt been affected by the deduction of excessive charges. But Aviva remained of
the view that the onus was on the adviser to stop the fees if his instruction had been wrong.
Quilter told this service that Aviva, not it, had calculated the amount of the fee refund due to
Mr L. It remained of the view that it had given Aviva a clear instruction only to collect them
for the first five years, and thought Aviva had taken responsibility for the resulting investmentlosses when it said at an earlier stage that it was carrying out a loss assessment.
Our investigator essentially agreed with Avivas position on the complaint. In particular, he
was satisfied that Mr L had received an illustration dated 28 September 2012 (as Mrs L had
received the same). And that illustration did not mention the five year period. So, he
considered that meant Aviva was complying with its terms to pay the fees in
accordance with the most recent illustration.
However, in his view to Aviva the investigator acknowledged that Quilter had in effect
already given its agreement to that firm for any overpaid fees to be reclaimed so that they
could be credited to Mr Ls pension. He was unable to establish why Aviva had calculated
the amount at £880, and invited Aviva to provide its reasons for this. Otherwise, he said that
the full £1000 requested by Mr L should be credited back to the pension. From what I can
see, Aviva did not provide any argument against doing this. However, the complaint against
Aviva has been closed and did not progress to a final decision.
The investigator thought Quilter was ultimately responsible for ensuring that a loss
assessment was carried out on the missing investment returns resulting from these fees.
Quilter didnt agree with the investigator, as it never received the illustration of 28 September
2012: Mr L did. It thought its own commission agreement with Mr L should be the pivotal
document, as well as the illustration of 24 September 2012. It also disagreed that it was
practicable for the adviser attached to the pension to be aware of the ongoing charge, given
his retirement and sale of several hundred clients business at around the same time as the
five year period ended. As Mr L had never sought advice from the new firm, there wasnt an
opportunity for it to identify the issue sooner  and in regulatory terms there wasnt an
obvious error with an ongoing commission payment that had started before January 2013.
Confusingly, Quilters records showed that from 9 November 2017 to 5 February 2021, Aviva
had actually paid commission totalling £956.68 from Mr Ls pension plan  i.e. not a round
figure of £1,000 either. It said that so far, Aviva had only asked it for £880 and a further £50
back. It was however happy to refund the additional £26.68 of commission that it had
received. In addition, it could not find a reason why Aviva had been deducting a further £5pm
fee in addition to the original £20pm on the 24 September 2012 illustration, so it was also
willing to refund five years worth of this fee to Mr L (£300), plus £250 for the distress and
inconvenience caused to him.
As Mr L decided not to accept this offer, the investigator issued a further view on the
complaint. He thought in all likelihood, Quilters adviser had generated the illustration of 28
September 2012. Quilter hadnt objected to the collection of a £25pm fee instead of £20pm 
until now, and its head office (rather than individual advisers) should have been aware of the
total amount of fees it had accumulated. So, that suggested it had originally been satisfied
this illustration was correct and superseded the 24 September 2012 illustration. However, if
Quilter was now saying this illustration was wrong and there was no agreement with Mr L to
collect the additional £5 per month, he thought it should additionally do a loss assessment
on the extra £5 per month.
Again, Quilter wouldnt accept this. It said that its fee arrangement with Aviva was like a
standing order, and it was for Aviva to cancel this at the end of the five year period - as
Quilter had no ability to directly debit Mr Ls pension. It pointed out there was also no
evidence that the adviser generated the 28 September 2012 illustration, which in any case
did not reflect what actually happened: it said that the gross monthly premiums paid to date
had been £100; not £125.
As agreement couldnt be reached, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 December 2022. I explained (for the reasons set out further below) that Quilter didnt 
actually need to have made its further offer to Mr L. I thought its offer of £250 for distress 
and inconvenience was sufficient, but the other sums were not necessary - as this service 
would be willing to look into the matter of the loss assessment and the question of any 
further upset caused again, in the complaint against Aviva.
Quilter accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr L wanted Quilter to honour its offer in full, but also agreed that this service should 
reconsider the issues for which Aviva was responsible. Since then Aviva has agreed to the 
loss assessment part of the compensation and to pay compensation to Mr L for distress and 
inconvenience  an offer which he has accepted.  So it remains for me here to respond to 
Mr Ls request for Quilter to honour the rest of its offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This dispute began as one about the duration of the fee Quilter had received from Mr Ls
pension. Mr L had also observed that the refund paid by Aviva was not a multiple of £25,
reflecting his understanding that the fees he was paying were meant to be £25 per month.
However Quilter has now raised the suggestion that the fees should only have been £20 per
month, so Ive considered that issue first.
What monthly amount should have been paid in initial fees?
Mr Ls original illustration (24 September 2012) was based on £100 being his gross premium
 that is, with tax relief included. But as Ive already said above, the suitability report was
issued on the understanding that Mr L would be contributing £100 himself and HMRC adding
tax relief of £25 to that each month, giving a gross premium of £125.
If Mr L had only expected to pay a net premium of £80 himself each month, I would have
expected him to question this long before now. Obviously, the more he pays into the pension
the more tax relief he gets and the more potential the gross amount has to benefit from
investment growth. I note the adviser discussed the affordability of Mr L paying £1,200pa 
(which is £100pm) rather than any lower figure in the suitability report, which acts as a 
record of the advice. So Im satisfied that Mr L would have understood he was paying 
£100pm net and therefore £125pm gross, once the tax relief was added on.
Mr L signed a fee agreement for Quilter to take 20% of his gross premium. And what Aviva
collected from the plan to remit to Quilter was 20% of a total gross premium of £125  so at
£25 per month, Aviva was collecting the agreed amount.
Quilter says that the 28 September 2012 illustration is incorrect because it shows £125pm
gross premiums but only £100pm gross premiums have been collected. We only have
complete statements for Mrs L, but her plan was set up on an identical basis to Mr L and
show total annual amounts of £1200 in premiums plus tax relief of £300. Where they are
itemised, the contributions show a £100 premium plus a £25 tax relief credit each month. So,
thats consistent with what the 28 September 2012 illustration did show. I asked that if Mr L 
had different figures to this on his own statements, he could provide them in response to this 
provisional decision. He hasnt shown me anything different.
The investigator said that this illustration was likely generated by the adviser, but I think
thats wrong. Product providers will always send out a new illustration when theyve receivedan application, as this accompanies the customers cancellation rights. I have no reason to
doubt this is why Mr L had a copy of this illustration, part of which he sent to us with his
complaint. And whilst some providers might also send a copy of this to the adviser, Im not
aware that Aviva was under any obligation to do that. 
In any event, I dont think the amount of the premium on this illustration was wrong, for the 
reasons Ive given above. The only issue is that unlike the previous illustration, it no longer 
showed an end date for the fees. So I dont think Quilter actually owes Mr L a refund of the 
additional £5 per month fee. The issue is that the fees totalling £25pm should have 
stopped in 2017.
Who is responsible for there being no end date for the fees?
Unlike the investigator, I think Aviva initiated the 28 September 2012 illustration as a result of
the adviser submitting the electronic application (of which he had printed out a summary) to
Aviva on 25 September. In my view, there are potential shortcomings in the way this
application summary is presented which werent originally explored by the investigator
when this service was considering the Aviva complaint. 
It doesnt seem that Aviva retained its own records of the electronic application that were 
more extensive than the summary Quilter has, because it hasnt now challenged the matter 
further and now settled its part of the complaint. To my mind, on a matter as important as 
whether the initial fee is ongoing or has an end date, the application summary should have 
either captured a date or not applicable, or made some other distinction to make this clear.
I cannot reasonably expect Quilter to provide screen shots of what the adviser saw when
entering the online application, and again no such evidence was produced by Aviva. Without 
such persuasive evidence I cant fairly say that the adviser either intentionally or negligently 
failed to put in an end date for the initial fees. I also cant fairly say that he should have 
noticed that the application summary was potentially misleading either, because it remains 
possible that it looked clear what he was asking for when he entered it on the screen.
Who should refund Mr L the overpaid fees after the five-year point?
Aviva now has a copy of the fee agreement between Mr L and Quilter which clearly post-
dates even its final illustration on Mr Ls plan. Furthermore that final illustration was
generated on the basis of an electronic application, which is not in my view summarised in a
robust enough way on the printout Aviva generated at the time.
There are also potential questions to be addressed as to why Avivas system was able to
accept an instruction for ongoing fees taken from each premium with no end date, rather
than a percentage of the fund with no end date. The latter was a common basis of
commission at the time Mr L applied for his plan, but the former would strike me as decidedly
unusual. It seems from comments Aviva has made in its own file that it may in actual fact
have had checks and balances to stop such payments after ten years, but the question could
be asked why not after five or six years  which reflects a far more common fee arrangement 
for advisers to enter into.
So, I think there would always have been an issue here for Aviva to consider accepting - on
the basis of the evidence it now has - that it has the primary responsibility to refund the
£1,000 worth of premiums Mr L is claiming for to his plan. It already has its own contractual
arrangements with Quilter to recover any such overpayment, but I dont consider that should
have delayed Aviva making the refund to Mr L. To do otherwise would be to forget that Mr L
is also its customer.In any event, I also dont see why Quilter would not return the amounts it has actually
received from Aviva in respect of fees charged after the five-year period ended  on receipt
of a proper demand from Aviva. I note that Quilter has a somewhat different figure (by some
£40 or so) to Mr Ls, but that is something that needs to be resolved between Quilter and
Aviva privately. It does not need to be resolved through this service and should not affect the
amount of the refund Mr L receives from Aviva. So I dont require Quilter to pay the sum it 
has identified of £26.68 directly to Mr L. It should resolve this with Aviva because the money 
needs to go back into Mr Ls plan  not to him.
Who is responsible for assessing any investment loss?
On the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I think Aviva was in a better position to prevent the 
overpayment of fees than the adviser. And after Aviva saw a copy of my provisional decision 
in this complaint, it agreed to do the loss assessment and Mr L has accepted that offer.
I havent seen evidence that the commencement illustration of 28 September 2012 was sent
to the adviser as well as Mr L - and even if it was, the adviser wouldnt necessarily have
anticipated that Aviva had interpreted his instruction the way it did. 
This service considers any dispute on the basis of what is fair and reasonable. Whilst I am 
bound to take into account the nature of the Aviva declaration Mr L signed, which suggested 
any dispute about fees was the advisers responsibility alone, that does not prevent me 
deciding whether it would be fair and reasonable to find Aviva responsible to some degree 
once all the wider evidence had been considered. I did not ultimately need to do that, as 
Aviva has now accepted responsibility to correct the value of Mr Ls policy.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I thought Quilter had caused further confusion during its 
investigation of Mr Ls complaint by  not understanding or explaining as clearly as it could 
have done  either when the policy was sold or subsequently  that the extra £5 was 
because a separate payment of tax relief was going into Mr Ls plan.
That muddied the waters further, and I also didnt think it helped for Quilter to begin offering 
partial further refunds of fees to Mr L that only reflected the actual sums Aviva paid to it, 
rather than what was wrongly taken out of his policy. I thought it had begun to confuse its 
dispute with Aviva, with its dispute with Mr L. Overall, I thought that this would have been a 
confusing experience for Mr L, and it was fair that Quilter honoured the £250 payment for 
distress caused  because it was consistent with awards this service might otherwise have 
made for the upset caused to him.
However I didnt think it was necessary for Quilter to repay the £300 of fees it took as a 
portion of the tax relief, as Im satisfied this was always contemplated in the arrangements 
that were made. Nor did it have to repay the sum it has identified of £26.68 directly to Mr L, 
as instead it needs to resolve any outstanding amount directly with Aviva - so that once 
Aviva has done its loss assessment, Mr Ls policy value is restored to the correct amount.
I appreciate that Mr L is disappointed to lose out on the amounts Quilter had offered him 
over and above the £250 distress payment. However he had the option to accept Quilters 
offer before the matter was referred to me for a fresh review. Ive also reviewed the offer 
Aviva has made Mr L, which he accepted. My overall aim is to put Mr L  and the value of 
his policy  back in the position it would have been in if the pension plan had been set up 
correctly. I dont see a basis for Quilter to put Mr L in an improved position than that, other 
than by way of a payment for distress and inconvenience. I proposed a settlement that was fair and reasonable to both sides. And I think the £250 
payment for the upset Quilters actions caused Mr L is reasonable. So, whilst this is 
frustrating for Mr L I hope he can now see that the actions of Quilter and Aviva working 
together will put him back in the position he should have been in, if none of these errors had 
been made.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited and award him 
the sum of £250 for the distress and inconvenience Quilter has caused.
To the extent that it has not done so already, I also direct that Quilter completes the refund 
to Aviva of any amount of fees it has collected that exceeds the commission based on 
agreed amounts of £25 per month for the first five years.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman