DRN-3447237
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In January 2021, Mr S account received two credits of £35 and £15 from one payee and a 
third credit of £25 from another payee. These funds were immediately transferred to another 
of Mr S account. Shortly afterwards, Monzo received a notification from the two banks, 
responsible for sending the payments, stating that the payees of the funds had reported 
being the victims of purchase scams as Mr S hadnt provided the items as agreed. Monzo 
decided to review Mr S account. It decided to close to close the account and also record a 
fraud prevention marker against Mr S.
Mr S eventually realised that Monzo had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him 
and made a complaint. Monzo looked at Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that although Monzo ought to 
have obtained more information from Mr S during the course of its investigation, nonetheless 
there is sufficient evidence for the fraud marker to have been recorded and for it to remain. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr S has said that these payments were for items he sold online using two different sales 
platforms. He said that one of the two buyers got in touch to say that they hadnt received 
the items and he responded to say that he wasnt willing to issue a refund. Mr S said he 
believed that he sent the items using the postal service. But he didnt have any proof of 
postage and he could no longer access the messages or had any information about these 
sales. Mr S was however able to provide some records of feedback that other buyers had 
left for him for other sales on one of the platforms.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But Im mindful that two different banks reported 
customer not having received items theyd paid Mr S for. So the fraud marker wasnt 
recorded solely on the basis of what one individual had said. Im also concerned that Mr S 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence of having sent the items he says he sold, any 
messages from the time, or anything at all relating to the sale of these items. 
I know Mr S says he feels he being penalised for Monzo not asking for this information when 
it carried out its investigation as it he had it then, or he might have even chosen to return the 
funds at this point. But I have to question why Mr S wouldnt have retained any of this 
information given he says one of the buyers had already contacted him to dispute receiving 
the items. And Mr S initially complained to Monzo not too long after this all took place. 
Furthermore, its also difficult to understand how and why Mr S has been unable to provide 
any evidence relating to these sales when hes been able to provide evidence of sales, for 
other items sold, on one of one of the platforms used. Some of these records go back a 
number of years and there are even some from after the sale of these items. So it seems a 
bit odd for Mr S have records going back for an extended period yet not have any records at 
all for these sales.
Given the fraud reports from two different customers with two different banks and Mr S not 
having anything at all to corroborate his version of events, its difficult for me to place too 
much weight on Mr S has said.
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr S was more likely than not complicit in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account. So I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr S when 
recording a fraud marker against him and Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the fraud marker is having on him. But even taking into account the impact he says 
the marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that Mr S appears to have been complicit 
in fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr S will understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Furthermore, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman