DRN-1615433
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy because Zurich Assurance Ltd refused his critical illness claim. Instead, it 
cancelled the policy altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation.
To resolve his complaint, Mr L wants Zurich to pay his claim in full.     
What happened
Mr L took out a decreasing term assurance policy with Zurich alongside his mortgage 
lending. It offered him an initial sum assured of £122,000 for an eleven-year term. The policy 
was taken out through an independent financial adviser. It was issued on standard terms on 
23 September 2011.
In 2019, Mr L contacted Zurich to make a claim on his policy as he sadly suffered from a 
heart attack at the start of the year.
Mr L then lodged a complaint regarding the amount of time the claims decision was taking.
In April 2019, Zurich told Mr L it could not pay the claim. It said Mr L had failed to inform it 
about records relating to high blood pressure and cholesterol, which had resulted in a 
hospital referral that he did not attend. If it had known that at the time he applied for the 
cover, then it would have had to postpone the application until Mr L had either attended the 
referral or been back to his GP for further assessment. It noted that it felt Mr Ls actions were 
reckless. 
Further, Zurich said it had not taken an unreasonable time to review the complaint  
additional investigation had been required because the information given as part of the claim 
contradicted the answers on the application, and that required further assessment. It told Mr 
L that if he was unhappy with the decision, he could bring the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr Ls IFA appealed the decision. It said Mr L had indeed attended his GP surgery in 
December 2010, when suffering from tennis elbow. It was during his consultation that he 
was invited for a further health check two weeks later, which he did attend. This showed he 
had raised blood pressure and cholesterol but he was led to believe this was due to his 
injury.
Mr L did not receive any further invite for a referral to the hospital and it was never followed 
up by his GP. The GP notes record he was due to be going overseas for his employment 
shortly afterwards. He was therefore unaware of any concerns held, any familial diagnosis or 
the need to follow up the matter anywhere.
The IFA also explained that at no time since 2011 had Mr L been advised regarding blood 
pressure or cholesterol, and his GP records confirmed as such. 
Zurich considered the appeal, but was unwilling to change its view. It said even if Mr L hadnt 
been advised about high cholesterol and high blood pressure, he had suffered from them  and the question asked him about that too. Zurich said the medical evidence did not support 
the argument that Mr L was unaware of these conditions and therefore he should have 
disclosed them.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated that he was seeing a nurse at the 
time the cover was taken out, hence why he disclosed he had tennis elbow. He did not 
intentionally mislead Zurich, and genuinely believed he was seeing his nurse for that reason. 
He also disclosed his drinking and smoking status. Mr L said if he was going to lie when he 
took out insurance, then it would not follow that he had disclosed those but disregarded 
something else. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said he thought Mr L ought to have 
answered questions differently on his policy application. This was because he felt Mr L 
would (or should) have been reasonably aware that he suffered from raised cholesterol and 
blood pressure. And If Zurich had known about this, it couldnt have insured him without 
postponing the application. As Mr L had never been back to his GP to address these issues, 
Zurich could not have offered cover. He therefore felt it was right to refuse the claim.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said he had never lied, he merely 
forgot about it. And he answered all of the other questions accurately  this shows he did not 
act frivolously or with disregard for what Zurich asked of him. 
Zurich said it had nothing else to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn about Mr Ls poor health and I do wish him well. I can see this has 
been a difficult time for him and his family. I appreciate he feels that Zurich has let him down 
at the time he needed to rely on the policy.
But, I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint. I cannot require Zurich to pay a claim 
merely because Mr L held a policy on standard terms. Zurich says it couldnt have offered 
those standard terms if it had an accurate picture of Mr Ls circumstances, so I must look at 
what ought to have happened at the time Mr L applied for his cover.
Having done so, though I disagree with some of the reasoning used by Zurich, I do agree 
with the outcome reached by our investigator. Im not going to order Zurich to pay the claim, 
because I dont find it to have acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done.
When it received the medical information to process Mr Ls claim, it was prompted to review 
Mr Ls medical records, because the report given by his treating consultant referred to both 
hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia.It is therefore correct to look at what Mr L was asked when he completed his application with 
the IFA on 21 September 2011. He was asked:
In the last five years, unless already disclosed, have you suffered from or been asked 
or advised to have any test or investigation for:
High blood pressure?
In the last five years, unless already disclosed, have you suffered from or been asked 
or advised to have any test or investigation for:
Chest pains, irregular heartbeat, heart murmur or raised cholesterol?
 
Mr L answered no to both these questions.
Like our investigator, I believe he should have answered them positively. I have reviewed Mr 
Ls medical records carefully. On 5 January 2011 when he attended the health check, his 
blood pressure was recorded as being too high. It was also noted that he had significantly 
elevated cholesterol with increased LDL suggestive of familial hypercholesterolaemia. Both 
of the records noted a follow up appointment was needed. Five days later, a referral was 
made to hospital for further biochemical investigations.
I accept and appreciate that Mr L didnt attend the follow up arranged for him later that 
month, nor did he attend the hospital appointment made for him of May 2011. This was 
understandable since he went to work overseas for several months.
However, I do believe that Mr L was aware of his high cholesterol and blood pressure. These 
were raised at the appointment of 30 December 2010 and he was given patient information 
leaflets about how to reduce them. He was also aware that he needed to return for blood 
tests for that reason on 5 January 2011, which he attended. 
And though Mr L says this was connected to his tennis elbow, that is not what his medical 
records say. He reported in September 2010 with his elbow injury and had minor surgery the 
following month. The appointment of December 2010 was unconnected  he had been 
invited to attend the surgery for an NHS health check, offered to him on 15 December 2010.
On balance, I believe Mr L was aware of the raised blood pressure and cholesterol. I accept 
he may not have seen the hospital letter that said he had possible familial 
hypercholesterolaemia. But, the question put to him wasnt about a diagnosis. He was asked 
if he had suffered from, been advised about or asked to have a test for high blood pressure 
or raised cholesterol. And Mr L had suffered from them (his results were higher than they 
should be on both 30 December and 5 January) and he had been referred for tests that he 
had on 5 January 2010.
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless.
Zurich believes that since the policy application was only nine months after the GP report 
that Mr L must have acted recklessly. I disagree. Mr L has given a credible explanation 
regarding his specific offshore employment, which meant he didnt attend his GP or hospital 
further, and that he didnt know he had missed appointments. 
I therefore understand why Mr L may have not properly thought about the question or 
appreciated what he was being asked. And I believe that he did not intend to deceive or mislead Zurich. But, he needed to show more care when answering and checking the 
question because he did have something additional to disclose.
Zurich relied on Mr L answering questions accurately. As he applied through his IFA, he was 
sent a copy of his answers to reflect upon. I recognise it was an oversight to disregard his 
medical history, but I dont think it was so proximate to the application that this demonstrated 
reckless disregard for what Mr L was being asked. As he explained, he also made other 
disclosures. So, I think Mr Ls actions best fit the careless category.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it would not have been able to insure the applicant, it can void the 
policy.
Zurich has provided underwriting guidance which shows it could not have offered him the 
term assurance policy without a postponement. This is because of the medical records 
relating to possible familial hypercholesterolaemia. Mr L may not have known of this, but 
Zurich would have sought his medical records because he had not completed follow up 
hospital investigations.
So, if Mr L had answered the questions positively in 2011, it would have awaited his re-
attendance at hospital before it could have insured him. Since this did not happen, it has 
ultimately had to void the policy and return Mr Ls premiums because it cannot be known 
(within a reasonable period after September 2011) what the outcome of the hospital 
investigations would have been.
Zurichs actions are consistent with industry guidance. The Association of British Insurers 
issues periodic Codes of Practice setting out best practice for insurers on Misrepresentation 
and Treating Customers Fairly. The Code suggests that where an insurer has established 
careless misrepresentation, it must as far as possible work out what the ultimate 
underwriting outcome would have been. However, where the underwriting decision would 
have resulted in a deferred decision and insufficient information exists to ascertain what the 
decision would have been, the insurer can treat this as a decline.
Even though I disagree with the categorisation of the type of misrepresentation, the outcome 
would have been the same in both circumstances  in reckless misrepresentation the insurer 
can cancel the contract altogether. And though careless misrepresentation has a 
proportionate remedy, if the insurer cannot establish what would have happened after a 
postponement it can also cancel the contract and return the premiums. 
It is therefore fair and in accordance with the relevant law and guidance for Zurich to void the 
cover as it cannot have reached an underwriting decision without Mr L having sought further 
medical assessment in 2011. That means I cant ask it to pay his claim because it couldnt 
have insured him at all. 
My final decision
I know this decision is not what Mr L has hoped for. However, I dont find Zurich to have 
done anything wrong and therefore I cannot uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.Jo Storey
Ombudsman