DRN-4242638
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complain that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus wont refund an unauthorised payment taken from their account. Mr S, a 
director of H, brings this complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), H is generally liable for 
authorised payments from their account and Cashplus is generally liable for 
unauthorised payments.
The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment was 
authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them.  
It seems to be agreed that the disputed payment was properly authenticated. 
Whether Mr S (on behalf of H) consented to it depends on whether he completed the 
agreed steps to make a payment. Or if someone else acting on Hs behalf used those 
agreed steps.
Its my understanding that, in order to make this payment, Hs card details were 
entered or presented. Then, as prompted by a 3DS security check, a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) was entered. 
Im persuaded it wasnt Mr S who used or presented his card details  and, so far as 
Im aware, that isnt disputed by Cashplus. Mr S received a scam call from someone 
posing as Cashplus. I believe that scammer had already obtained Mr Ss card details 
and initiated the payment transaction, as is common in these types of scams. It 
appears to have been targeted at Cashplus customers. 
So, Mr S didnt complete  or consent to someone else completing  the agreed form 
and procedure to make a payment. It was initiated using his (likely stolen) card 
details. He says, during the scam call, the scammer claimed to be Cashplus and 
warned him fraud was being attempted on Hs account. He was told he needed to 
share a security code with them to stop it.
Although Mr S says he thinks he stopped and didnt share the last digit with the 
scammer, on balance I think he did. And the scammer then entered this code to 
make the payment. But it wasnt Mr S who entered the details, nor did he share the 
code in order to allow someone else to make a payment for him. So the payment is 
unauthorised. 
Ive considered the circumstances of the scam which led to Mr S sharing the OTP. 
As, even though Im satisfied the payment was unauthorised, Cashplus can still hold 
H liable if Mr S failed with intent, or gross negligence, to abide by the account terms 
or keep Hs personalised security credentials safe  and that allowed the payment to 
be made.
I dont think Mr S intentionally failed to keep the security details safe. While he likely 
did share the OTP, he did so on the understanding he was providing this to 
Cashplus, in order to protect the account. He didnt realise he was handing it to a 
third party, or that they could and would use it to make a payment.
While I agree there may have been some negligence on Mr Ss part, the bar Im 
considering here is whether he was grossly negligent. That would mean identifying, 
but disregarding, an obvious risk. Or showing a very significant degree of 
carelessness.
I can see why, in the circumstances, Mr S was caught off-guard and believed the 
caller. As mentioned, they were clearly targeting Cashplus customers. They knew 
details about Hs account, as well as Mr Ss name. So I can see why he accepted 
they were Cashplus, as they claimed to be.
The tactic of telling Mr S that fraud had been attempted on the account created a 
sense of pressure and urgency, to persuade Mr S he needed to quickly act on the 
callers instructions to protect Hs account. In the heat of the moment, I dont think he 
recognised the risk of following the callers instructions.
I dont think Mr S disregarded very obvious warning signs. I think he was alive to 
signs of risk  as he did realise, albeit seemingly just after reading out the code, that 
the background noise didnt sound right for a call from his bank. But before that, he 
thought the callers communication, as well as the information they had, credibly 
suggested they were from Cashplus. In the circumstances, I dont think it was very 
significantly careless to share the code.
In response to the investigators view, Cashplus argued Mr S should have realised 
something was wrong as the OTP message warned him not to share the code with 
anyone. But hes shown us the message and thats not correct. It just said it was to 
verify a transaction. And he cant recall if he read the full message or not. 
Ive now seen several cases where Cashplus has asserted a warning was given 
without checking what the individual message said. I understand it has since added 
an improved warning to its messages, but it should know to check what actually 
happened in each individual case. 
As the message only said it was to verify a payment, and didnt warn Mr S not to 
share the code, I dont consider  in the circumstances  that he was grossly 
negligent to do so. In saying all of this, I do want to acknowledge there are some unknowns around 
exactly how this scam occurred. But, where Mr S disputes authorising this payment, 
Im not persuaded Cashplus has done enough to justify why its holding him liable. 
On balance, Im satisfied Mr S didnt consent to the payment. While Cashplus asserts 
Mr S should be held liable as it believes he shared the OTP, thats not enough under 
the PSRs. In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it has shown he failed to keep 
the security details safe through intent or gross negligence. And so I dont think he 
should fairly be held liable for this transaction. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Hs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus must:
Pay H the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded  I understand this to be £12,330.52; and
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it H accept my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman