DRN-2096754
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002 in one of the banks
branches. It included life and critical illness insurance as well as PPI. The PPI gave them 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
This complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent aware they had PPI. Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from 
the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. Based on what we know about the 
banks sales process at the time, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs L completed a TMPP 
application form selecting which elements of the cover they wanted, after discussion with the 
bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when selling 
TMPP at this time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard 
sales process here. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs L had a choice about PPI - 
and they opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to make sure it was suitable. I think 
the PPI seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. Mr L was entitled to 18 weeks full pay followed by half pay for up to 24 months if 
he was sick. Mrs L says she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if 
she was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 
months. It also gave them up to 24 months redundancy cover  again this would have paid 
out in addition to any employee benefit allowing them to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment at an already difficult time. Mr and Mrs L said they had savings worth around 
£10,000 but the PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.
Overall, given the consequences for Mr and Mrs L of defaulting on a high-value, long-term 
debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if they 
were sick or lost their job(s).
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs L all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know when Halifax first pointed 
out the main things the policy didnt cover, like medical exclusions or limitations for certain 
types of employment contract. But Mr and Mrs L dont appear to have been affected by any 
of those things. I am aware Mr L had a pre-existing medical condition but from what hes told 
us it was under control and not something I think he would have expected to need to make a 
claim for. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman