DRN-2929961
The complaint
Ms C complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has treated her unfairly by refusing to admit a 
critical illness claim after she suffered a cardiac arrest. 
What happened
Ms C holds two life and critical illness insurance policies with Zurich. The policies are 
designed to provide lump sums payable in the event Ms C were to die or be diagnosed with 
a listed critical illness during the policy terms. 
Ms C sadly suffered a cardiac arrest in May 2019. She checked Zurichs website and saw 
that cardiac arrest was covered and so attempted to claim. Zurich advised that while cardiac 
arrest was included on its newer policies it wasnt included on Ms Cs policy. Ms C 
complained to Zurich that it had treated her unfairly. She believed Zurich should have 
informed her that it had updated its policies and given her an opportunity to upgrade her 
cover. She also noted that whilst cardiac arrest wasnt listed on her policy, it also wasnt 
expressly excluded.  
Zurich explained that the policies only provided cover for the conditions expressly listed 
within the policy terms and conditions. It explained that while its policies changed over time, 
it was under no obligation to inform existing customers of these changes. It explained that it 
wasnt permitted to give financial advice and, in some cases, it wouldnt be in a customers 
interests to take out new cover. 
Ms C remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied Zurich had acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining Ms Cs claim on the grounds that cardiac arrest wasnt listed within 
the policy. She also agreed Zurich was under no obligation to keep Ms C updated about 
changes to the policies it offered. Our investigator noted the policies offer cover for 
cardiomyopathy, which Ms C has also been diagnosed with, but that Ms C hasnt yet met the 
policy definition for a claim to be accepted. She advised Ms C to ask Zurich to reconsider the 
claim in the future if she believed her condition met the policy definition. 
Ms C disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. She explained her condition was life threatening and that 
shed nearly died. She had an expectation that this would mean her claim would be paid. 
She also referred us to news articles where other insurers had accepted claims where the 
policy terms and conditions hadnt been met. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Ms Cs ill-health. Its clear shes had an incredibly difficult time since 
she became unwell. And I can only imagine her disappointment when she discovered her 
policy didnt provide cover for cardiac arrest, particularly given the serious nature of her 
diagnosis.
Ive given very careful consideration to all the information weve been provided, and Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator for largely the same reasons. I realise this 
will come as a huge disappointment to Ms C. But for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont 
think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking it 
to do anything further in this case. 
The policies Ms C hold provide cover for a finite number of critical illnesses that are listed 
within the policy document. Sadly for Ms C, cardiac arrest isnt one of the listed conditions. 
While I appreciate this must have been incredibly disappointing to learn, I cant say Zurich 
acted unreasonably by not including it in the cover it offered Ms C in 2009. 
Critical illness policies are designed to provide cover for certain specified critical conditions. 
No policy provides cover for every potential critical illness a person could have  to do so 
would make policies prohibitively expensive. Its up to each individual insurer to decide which 
conditions it will and wont cover.
At the time Ms C took out her policies the ABI Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness 
Cover April 2006 was in force. The Statement of Best Practice was designed to help 
consumers compare critical illness policies by standardising the way critical illnesses were 
defined and the words used in policies. It also set out three core conditions that all critical 
illness policies must cover  heart attack, cancer and stroke. But beyond these three 
conditions it was up to individual insurers to decide what conditions they would or wouldnt 
cover. Im satisfied there was therefore no requirement on Zurich to provide cover for cardiac 
arrest within its critical illness policies in 2009, or indeed at any time since. 
Its important to note that policies such as these are long-term contracts. Ms Cs were 
designed to run for 27 and 30 years respectively. The terms and conditions are agreed at the 
outset and cover continues throughout the term of the policy. While insurers often make 
changes to the products they offer - which can involve adding or excluding additional 
conditions - these changes wont be reflected in existing policies. If a policyholder wants to 
take advantage of a newer policy then its for them, most likely with the support of a financial 
adviser, to decide this and arrange new cover. 
Theres also no requirement for insurers to advise existing policyholders about changes to 
the products they offer. Indeed, as Zurich has explained its not licenced to give financial 
advice. And in many scenarios, it wouldnt be in the policyholders best interest to take out 
new cover to replace existing cover. While new policies often add new conditions, its also 
true that the cover thats available for other conditions can become more restricted. Changes 
to the policyholders age, health and lifestyle can also mean that the cost of cover can 
increase, and an insurer may seek to exclude pre-existing conditions making new cover less 
comprehensive. So, I cant say Zurich acted unfairly or unreasonably by not advising Ms C 
when it introduced new products into the market. 
I can understand why Ms C had her hopes raised when she saw on Zurichs website that 
cardiac arrest was a covered condition. But I dont think Zurich acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in refusing to consider Ms Cs claim, as cardiac arrest wasnt included on 
either of her policies. I also cant say Zurich acted unreasonably by publicising the cover it 
currently offers on its website. The information was intended to advertise its products to new 
customers, rather than being used by existing policyholders to assess their level of cover. 
Im aware Ms C has directed us to news articles which report on other insurers making 
ex-gratia, or goodwill payments to policyholders whove suffered cardiac arrests even though their policies didnt include cover for that condition. I understand why Ms C feels the same 
generosity should be extended to her given the seriousness of her illness. But I can only 
consider if Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms. I cant 
fairly ask Zurich to pay a claim for a condition that it never assumed the risk for. Only an 
individual insurer could make that decision. So, while I realise it will be deeply disappointing 
to Ms C, I wont be ask Zurich to make a payment that falls outside the terms of the policy.  
I understand that as well as suffering a cardiac arrest, Ms C was also diagnosed with 
cardiomyopathy, which is a listed critical illness. Zurich has advised that Ms C doesnt meet 
the policy criteria for a claim to be admitted at this stage. Zurich has said the medical 
evidence doesnt support that shes suffered permanent impaired ventricular function such 
that the ejection fraction is 35% of less for at least six months when stabilised on therapy 
advised by the consultant. But it has confirmed that a future claim could be considered if 
Ms Cs ventricular function deteriorates to the extent that she meets the above definition. 
Ms C hasnt disputed Zurichs assessment, so I havent considered this in any further detail. 
But I would urge Ms C to contact Zurich to reassess the claim should she feel she meets the 
policy definition at some point in the future. 
In summary, while I can see why it was very disappointing for Ms C to discover she wasnt 
covered for cardiac arrest, I cant say Zurich acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further in respect of Ms Cs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman