DRN-2828569
The complaint
Mr E is represented by his partner, Miss R in bringing this complaint. He complains that 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has unreasonably refused a terminal illness 
claim he made under his life assurance policy. To resolve the complaint, Miss R says Mr E 
wants the claim payment to be made without further delay.   
What happened
Mr E took out a term assurance policy with L&G in 2002. It offers level life cover for a twenty 
year term to 30 May 2022. The policy also included terminal illness benefit until 18 months 
before the end of the term  so, 30 November 2020.  
In August 2020, Mr E was sadly confirmed as having a type of advanced metastatic prostate 
cancer, diagnosed after he had a lump on his head and suffered from spinal cord 
compression which affects his ability to walk. 
On 15 October 2020, Miss R made a claim to L&G for terminal illness benefit. L&G sought 
further medical information as well as medical opinions from two chief medical officers 
(CMOs).  
In January 2021, L&G refused the claim. It said the medical information it had received from 
Mr Es consultant, Dr A, did not show that the policy definition had been met. 
It explained to Mr E that though a precise prognosis was difficult, it took into account factors 
such as progression of a policyholders disease, current treatment options, response to 
treatment and future treatment options available.
It also explained how some illnesses can be terminal illnesses upon diagnosis; however this 
doesnt necessarily mean the life expectancy is only a matter of months  some terminally ill 
people survive for many years. L&G explained how terminal illness benefit is designed to 
pay out when the terminal illness is in the final stages and so life expectancy can only be 
measured in terms of a few months, specifically, less than 12 months. In order for a terminal 
illness claim to be valid, the evidence has to show Mr E had a life expectancy of less than 12 
months prior to 30 November 2020. 
L&G said that Dr A confirmed his diagnosis of metastatic prostate cancer. She went on to 
confirm he was currently receiving hormone therapy; Gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
(GnRH) injections and Enzalutamide. On that basis, L&G took the view that it was too early 
to be able to evaluate Mr Es response to this treatment.  and therefore the life expectancy 
requirement of the policy wording had not been met.  
L&G said it had asked two CMOs that were specialists in oncology for their opinions, and 
they had also confirmed it was currently unclear as to whether Mr Es life expectancy was 
less than 12 months - this depended on how he responded to the treatment. 
Miss R asked L&G for a subject access request and also pursued a complaint. 
The following month, L&G rejected the complaint. It said its decision was made after 
considering all of the evidence it obtained from Mr Es consultant. The evidence was also 
reviewed by its CMO and the CMO of its reinsurer  so it was satisfied the correct decision 
had been reached, that a claim was not met for terminal illness benefit. L&G did, however, 
offer Miss R £200 for the fact she had to call for updates on the claim process. 
Miss R brought Mr Es complaint to this service. She explained that Mr Es cancer was 
extremely advanced and he had been informed that he had a life limiting terminal illness by 
his oncologist on 14 October 2020. She also explained that though he was receiving 
treatment, this was palliative and he could no longer undergo chemotherapy. 
Miss R also said that she had returned L&Gs claim form information on 19 October 2020, 
yet it took until January 2021 to provide an outcome on the claim, following many attempts 
on her part to chase L&G for an answer. She had been told on 15 October that this would 
only take eight weeks at most. She had accepted the £200 compensation for this. However, 
Miss R said it had also still not provided a response to her subject access request so issues 
with delays were ongoing. Finally, Miss R explained that the lump sum terminal illness 
payment would greatly assist Mr E in receiving full time care at home. 
An investigator considered the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She said 
whilst she did not dispute Mr E was suffering from a terminal condition, she didnt think the 
medical evidence showed that his life expectancy was less than 12 months. Whilst the 
consultant had said Mr Es life expectancy was likely to be less than a year, she also noted 
that Mr E was being offered treatment with a view to extending his life expectancy by a few 
months. 
When she weighed this assessment against the clinical trials of the same treatment referred 
to by one of the CMOs, she believed that Mr E had an increased life expectancy and 
therefore the definition hadnt been met. 
She also explained to Miss R that (despite her belief otherwise), the CMOs hadnt been in 
disagreement over the claim outcome. The internal assessment evidence showed that both 
CMOs had felt that it was too soon to establish if Mr E had responded to treatment and 
therefore it couldnt be said that Mr E had less than 12 months to live In light of the treatment 
options. 
Miss R said Mr E disagreed with the view from the investigator. They said:
they had experienced issues attaching evidence to the complaint form, so they were 
not sure how the investigator could conclude she had considered all the relevant 
information about the complaint;
Dr A was clear that Mr E had less than a year to live;
she also said that the hormone therapy would extend his life by a few months;
it is not fully understood how the hormone therapy may prolong survival;
the consultant has also factored Mr Es disability and immobility into his prognosis 
and no mention of this has been made by L&G;
an online article concerning a different terminally ill L&G customer showed how L&G 
had unreasonably refused a claim on the same basis that the consumer might live 
longer;
that article confirmed how The Financial Ombudsman has repeatedly told insurers 
they must have an exceptionally good reason for overruling the medical opinions of a 
customers own doctor;
and a Financial Ombudsman Service spokesperson confirmed that a patients 
prognosis is rarely clear-cut. We expect insurers to act in the spirit of a contract and not look for reasons to avoid paying out. Terminal illness cases are tremendously 
sensitive and no insurer should look to drag out the process of paying a claim.
Our investigator explained she had considered all of the evidence that Miss R had supplied 
as a chronological list  as L&G had copies of the same. However, her view on the complaint 
remained unchanged. 
L&G said it didnt have anything further to add. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I was very sorry to hear of Mr Es diagnosis, and Id like to send my best wishes to 
both him and Miss R at this difficult time. 
I dont underestimate the severity of Mr Es illness and I can see how Miss R has explained 
the impact it has had on them both. However, I am also of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. Ill set out my reasons for my conclusions below.  
I know Miss R has referred to a different L&G complaint published by a national newspaper 
which involved a similar terminal illness benefit claim. But the facts of that case were 
materially different. Further, one complaint does not set a binding precedent as to how I 
must deal with another complaint. That is because no two complaints are factually identical. 
Its for that reason that I must look at the specific evidence here and reach a determination 
that is, in my view, fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of Mr Es 
policy. That is the start point. The policy schedule under the section marked BENEFIT says:
On the death of the Life Assured before the Expiry Date, or upon diagnosis of a 
Terminal Illness at least 18 months before the Expiry Date there shall become 
payable the Sum Assured of £63,450.00.
The policy terms and conditions go further and define Terminal Illness. That says:
If the Life Assured has an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness, where 
in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life 
expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will make an advance 
payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will not be available during the 18 months 
immediately before the Expiry Date. Once payment has been made the policy will 
terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
As stated, the benefit will not be available during the last 18 months of the policy so in Mr Es 
case that definition must be met by the evidence that exists (or is retrospectively measured) 
before 30 November 2020.  
So, for the purposes of a valid claim, terminal illness as set out above requires before 30 
November 2020, 1) evidence that the illness is incurable and either advanced or rapidly 
progressing 2) the two required medical opinions and 3) that those opinions give a life 
expectancy of less than 12 months.
Clearly, Mr Es condition is extremely advanced, given the high staging of his type of cancer and point one is not disputed by L&G. However, I dont believe either of the other two points 
are satisfied on the information Ive seen.  
I accept that a CMOs opinion needs to be reasonably held, based on the evidence 
available. And it could conceivably be the case that there is a difference of professional 
opinion between the CMO (or CMOs) and Mr Es treating consultant. In scenarios such as 
those where opinions and evidence are finely balanced, Ill decide which I think is the more 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
That notwithstanding, I dont take the same view as Miss R in terms of Dr As report on Mr 
Es prognosis and therefore dont consider point three has been met. When asked to 
comment on Mr Es life expectancy, Dr A did confirm that unfortunately [it] is likely to be less 
than 1 year. She gave a number of relevant factors that she considered when making that 
clinical assessment and I have no reason to doubt her professional judgement.  
However, Dr A confirmed that the hormone injections Mr E was placed on from 17 August 
2020 has improved his Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) from abnormal levels (1082ng/mL) 
to normal levels of 0.9ng/mL. I understand that a reduction in PSA levels is usually an 
indicator that a certain line of treatment is working.  
Dr A also said in the same report when asked about any further treatment options that the 
hormonal therapy drug which was started on 14 October 2020 may prolong survival buy a 
few months. When asked about Mr Es response to that treatment, she said only been on 
this 1 month. On that basis, I dont believe on the evidence it had before it that L&Gs 
CMOs were unreasonable in concluding that there wasnt a clear assessment of Mr Es life 
expectancy being less than 12 months at that time.  
It follows that without a measure of Dr As view of Mr Es prognosis taking into account any 
treatment option open to Mr E, I cannot say that the assessment he may likely live for less 
than one year is sufficient to meet the definition Ive set out above in full. By that, I mean that 
it is fair for an insurer to give consideration to any reasonable treatment option that may 
extend a terminally ill persons life expectancy. 
I should note that I accept that a treating consultant is more likely to hold the most informed 
view of their patients prognosis. However, in order for Mr E to make a valid claim, Dr A 
would need to have stated that, before 30 November 2020, Mr E had less than 12 months to 
live, with that assessment being given including a consideration of the treatment Mr E has 
had or will have. As it stands, Dr A has not set out clear evidence of that. 
Miss R and Mr E remain free to submit any further retrospective evidence to L&G, should Dr 
A provide any fresh assessment of Mr Es prognosis. If this is the case, Dr A may also wish 
to take account of the clinical data which L&Gs CMO has referred to  as it took the view 
that the data on the specific type of hormone therapy provided a significantly longer 
prognosis of 80% survival at three years. Consideration of new evidence would not prevent 
Mr E pursuing another complaint, if so required.  
My final decision
I know my decision will be incredibly disappointing for Mr E. However, I do not believe L&G 
has acted unfairly here. In my view it has reasonably refused the claim as the evidence 
supplied thus far has not met the terminal illness wording under Mr Es term assurance 
policy. I therefore do not uphold the complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman