DRN-2972180
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited administered her personal loan.
What happened
Miss W took out a personal loan for £7,500 with Shawbrook in 2017. The repayments were
£210.52 a month, over a 42-month term. Miss W managed the loan well but in late 2019 she
started having issues with her repayments due to a change in circumstances. She kept
Shawbrook informed and it agreed to reduced repayments while she looked for a new job
and sought to sell a property. It also sign-posted her to debt charities for advice.
Miss Ws plan was to sell her property in late March/early April 2020, and then settle the loan
in full. Unfortunately, the sale couldnt go ahead because of the Covid pandemic. Miss W
asked Shawbrook for a Covid related payment deferral, meaning she wouldnt need to make
a repayment towards the loan for up to three months. Around this time she also made
Shawbrook aware she wasnt happy with how things were being handled and made a
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
When Miss W first asked about the payment deferral in late March 2020 the scheme had
been mentioned, but guidance from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
hadnt been issued. In early April 2020 Miss W was invited to apply for a payment deferral,
which she did. She received an acknowledgment by text message saying the FCA were due
to issue guidance the following week. And the following week, on 11 April 2020, she
received a further text message saying the guidance had been issued and her application
would be processed.
On 27 May 2020 Miss W was sent a text message saying her payment deferral had been
declined. But in the meantime, Shawbrook sold Miss Ws account to a third party, which Ill
call A. It migrated on 23 May 2020. So when Miss W called Shawbrook to ask why her
request had been declined she was told shed need to speak to A.
Miss W had made Shawbrook aware of her dissatisfaction with how things were being
handled at a number of points. Shawbrook issued a final response letter in June 2020. It 
apologised for how long it had taken for a decision to be made on Miss Ws request for a 
payment deferral and said it had been declined because she had been in arrears before the 
scheme came about.
Miss W referred her complained to our service but had some further communication with
Shawbrook. In August 2020 it confirmed the DSAR information had been sent and paid
Miss W £300 compensation to apologise for the poor service shed received. Later in the
year Miss W raised some concerns about the information Shawbrook had reported to the
credit reference agencies  Im not aware of this being addressed.
Our investigator concluded, in summary, that Shawbrook had treated Miss W fairly as she
wasnt eligible for a Covid related payment deferral and Shawbrook was entitled to sell the
debt on. Miss W didnt agree. She remained of the opinion Shawbrook hadnt acted as it
should. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide and 
it was following this some of the latter developments came to light. I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my thoughts. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly say Ive summarised Miss Ws complaint in less detail than she has 
presented it. And my findings will focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint 
and so wont be as detailed as she might like. Neither of these actions are meant as 
a discourtesy. Instead, they reflect the informal nature of our service. But I can 
assure Miss W (and Shawbrook) that Ive considered the whole file. If I dont mention 
something, its not because Ive ignored it  I havent  its just that I dont think doing 
so is necessary to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
Late 2019 to Miss Ws request for a payment deferral
When Miss Ws circumstances changed in late 2019 she kept Shawbrook informed 
and from its records Im satisfied it sought to understand her situation, sign-posted 
her to debt charities and agreed to reduced payments. So I think it treated her fairly 
here. Its very unfortunate her property sale couldnt proceed as this would have 
allowed for the account to be settled and therefore brought things to an amicable 
conclusion.
The payment deferral
When Miss W first asked Shawbrook for a payment deferral the relevant guidance 
hadnt been issued. So I think it was reasonable for it to decline her request until the 
guidance had been issued, and when it had been Shawbrook agreed to consider it. 
Shawbrook has explained it had a high volume of applications and each needed 
reviewing. It says it did them as quickly as it could, and approved requests were 
backdated (seemingly to mitigate the impact of delays).
I accept Shawbrook had a challenge on its hands at what would have already been a 
difficult time from an operational point of view as a result of the pandemic. But I think 
Miss W ought to have received an answer sooner given Shawbrook was already 
aware of her circumstances and it had a call with her to discuss her arrears on 14 
May 2020.
When Shawbrook reviewed Miss Ws request for a payment deferral it was declined 
because she had existing arrears on the account. Miss W has argued she was in 
arrears because her payment deferral hadnt been actioned/accepted. I dont think 
thats right though as the account history shows she was in arrears from January 
2020 onwards. Payment deferrals were meant as a short-term measure for people 
impacted, or likely to be impacted, by the pandemic. As Miss Ws difficulties 
pre-dated the pandemic, she wasnt eligible for a payment deferral. It follows that it 
was fair and reasonable for Shawbrook to decline her request.
That didnt mean Shawbrook had no responsibility to support Miss W in other ways.
However, by the time the decision has been made to decline her request for a 
payment deferral the account had been sold on, which Ill come on to next.
The sale of the accountShawbrook has explained Miss Ws account was part of a large portfolio sale and 
that the individual status of each account had no bearing on whether it was included 
in the portfolio or not. I havent seen anything to persuade me this wasnt the case, 
so I dont agree with Miss W that Shawbrook decided to sell her account to avoid 
dealing with her.
Miss W has also suggested that Shawbrook had no right to sell her account. From 
looking at the loan agreement, however, it did. But having the right, and exercising 
that right fairly, arent the same thing.
In this particular case Shawbrook knew Miss W was going through a difficult time 
both financially and personally. It also knew she was unhappy with how her account 
was being handled and that she had an outstanding request for a payment deferral. I 
dont think selling the debt was the right thing to do here and Im satisfied doing so 
had a detrimental impact on Miss W. I say this because my understanding is A didnt 
know what had happened previously regarding Miss Ws circumstances and Miss W 
was asked to make her full contractual payments initially, which would have been 
frustrating and concerning.
The DSAR
Miss W made a DSAR in April 2020. She had to chase it several times and received 
the information in August 2020. Its not for me to enforce data protection regulations 
 thats for the Information Commissioners Office. But I can consider the customer 
service Shawbrook provided. Having done so, I think it could have done better here.
Information reported to the credit reference agencies
Miss W has provided a screenshot of her credit report updated on 12 May 2020. This 
shows she missed payments in March, April and May 2020. I think this is an accurate 
reflection of the account history as by March 2020 Miss W was more than a full 
payment behind. Had Miss Ws payment deferral been agreed in April 2020, her 
credit file would show differently as arrears arent reported during a payment deferral. 
But for the reasons set out above she wasnt eligible for a payment deferral so thats 
not relevant here. I have also considered whether things would have worked out 
differently had Miss W been told her request for a payment deferral had been 
declined sooner. I dont think they would have. I say this because Miss W wouldnt 
have been able to pay the arrears regardless. It follows that I dont intend to
require Shawbrook to amend Miss Ws credit file.
In late 2020 Miss W was concerned that despite the account being sold to A, 
Shawbrook was still reporting adverse information about it to the credit reference 
agencies. Shes provided a screenshot. This shows a record of the account updated 
on 18 October 2020, with six months of missed payments in each of the previous 
three months. But the screenshot doesnt make it clear which firm has reported the 
information. I asked Miss W for a copy of her credit file but she declined my request, 
so I must make a finding on what I think is most likely based on the information 
available to me. Given the history only goes back three months, and because 
ordinarily the firm selling an account would stop reporting it, I think the screenshot 
most likely shows information provided by A. If Miss W thinks its incorrect, shell 
need to take that up with A.
OverallAs set out above, there were times when I think Shawbrook could have handled 
things better. I dont think these things would have made a material difference to the 
position the account was in and Im pleased Miss W has since released equity from a 
property and repaid the loan, bringing an end to this matter for her. I do think 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused throughout is 
appropriate. But, looking at things in the round, Im satisfied the £300 compensation 
Shawbrook has already paid Miss W fairly recognises the impact its actions had on 
her. So I dont intend to require it to pay her more than that.
Shawbrook accepted my provisional decision. Miss W didnt accept it and provided further 
comments for me to consider, which broadly fall into the following points:
- She wasnt treated fairly when she made Shawbrook aware of her financial 
difficulties;
- She should have been given a payment deferral at the point she asked for one; 
- Her credit file doesnt accurately reflect what happened on the account; and
- Shawbrooks actions had a significant impact on her and £300 compensation isnt 
adequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Shawbrook to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why and for ease will address the points set out above in turn. 
Miss W wasnt treated fairly when she made Shawbrook aware of her financial difficulties
Miss W has said she remains of the opinion Shawbrook didnt treat her fairly when she 
contacted it about her financial difficulties in late 2019/early 2020. She says if itd taken her 
income and expenditure details, which she had to hand, a payment arrange could have been 
agreed which would have avoided much of what later transpired. 
Ive revisited Shawbrooks contact notes. These are contemporaneous notes taken by 
Shawbrook following contact from Miss W and in my view are valuable insight into what was 
discussed. Having reviewed them in full, alongside Miss Ws comments, I remain satisfied 
Shawbrook treated Miss W fairly. Ill set out a summary of what some of the notes describe 
below.
3 December - 2019 - Miss W said shed been made redundant, had found a new job 
and asked to defer her repayment until the end of the month. Shawbrook agreed to 
this.
31 December 2019 - Miss W explained her situation, made a payment and said she 
was looking to settle the account. The note says financial support wasnt required.
8 January 2020 - a payment was agreed for £100. Miss W said she was selling her 
property and once sold would settle the account. 
27 January 2020 - Miss W explained her situation and said she couldnt make a 
payment. Shawbrook agreed to put the account on hold for 30 days while she sought debt advice. 
27 February 2020 - Miss W said shed received advice from a debt charity to contact 
her creditors to explain shed settle all her debts in early April 2020 through the sale 
of a property. She said she couldnt make any payments as she was on Statutory 
Sick Pay and was behind on her bills and mortgage. And she asked for the account 
to be put on hold until April 2020. Shawbrook was open to this but Miss W declined to 
provide proof her property was for sale which led to further contact.
2 April 2020 - Miss W said she was unable to make any payments and was waiting to 
hear whether she was entitled to Universal Credit. It was agreed when she knew, 
shed call to go through her income and expenditure.
The focus following the above became the Covid related payment deferral, which Ill come 
on to later in this decision.
On each interaction Shawbrook asked Miss W about her circumstances and I think going 
through things chronologically rather than with the benefit of hindsight, Shawbrooks actions 
were reasonable. When Miss W said she couldnt make a payment it gave her breathing 
space. When she said she would settle the debt following the sale of a property, it was open 
to placing the account on hold. When the sale couldnt proceed it was willing to do an 
income and expenditure exercise, albeit this action was superseded by Covid related events.
Miss Ws recollection of events differs to what Ive set out above. She says she asked for 
support though an official repayment agreement from late 2019 but it was refused despite 
her repeated requests for support. Im not persuaded this is the case. Based on whats been 
presented to me I dont think a repayment arrangement was a viable option and I think 
Miss Ws focus was on the sale of her property to settle the account, rather than on a 
repayment arrangement. Ultimately the account was in arrears and an arrangement to pay 
wasnt in place so I dont think I can fairly require Shawbrook to amend her credit file to show 
that one was.
Miss W should have been given a payment deferral at the point she asked for one
Miss W remains of the opinion she was entitled to a payment deferral. Shes provided links 
to FCA publications which she says shows they were available earlier than Shawbrook says 
they were and that she was entitled to one. 
I accept the government and the FCA made proposals about payment deferrals before 
Shawbrook agreed to consider her request on 11 April 2020. But proposals - which is what 
they were - arent the same as published guidance. The FCAs proposal, published on 
2 April 2020, said if confirmed, the measures would start on 9 April 2020 and that Lenders 
do not have to put these measures in place until they come into force. And following a brief 
consultation, thats what happened, with the measures coming into force - and guidance 
being issued - on 9 April 2020. Shawbrook asked Miss W if she wanted to apply for a 
payment deferral off the back of the consultation and agreed to consider it when the 
measures came into force. I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Miss W is of the opinion she was entitled to a payment deferral at the time she applied for 
one. As set out above, when she applied for one and when Shawbrook was obliged to 
consider one arent the same thing. But in any event, I think the proposal and guidance 
made clear payment deferrals were meant for borrowers impacted by Covid, and not for 
borrowers already in an unstable financial position. Miss Ws difficulties pre-dated the 
pandemic and their origins werent connected to it. It follows I remain satisfied Miss W wasnt 
entitled to a payment deferral.Miss Ws credit file doesnt accurately reflect what happened on the account
As I set out in my provisional decision, Miss W has provided a screenshot of her credit report 
updated on 12 May 2020 which shows she missed payments in March, April and May 2020. 
I remain of the opinion thats accurate and as Ive explained above, I dont think I can fairly 
ask Shawbrook to change it to show an arrangement to pay. 
Miss W has explained why she opted not to pay for a copy of her credit file to support her 
view Shawbrook continued to report adverse information to the credit reference agencies 
despite no longer owning the debt. I respect her choice. But as a consequence, I see no 
reason to deviate from the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, namely, that Im 
persuaded the screenshot showing the adverse information most likely shows information 
provided by A. 
Shawbrooks actions had a significant impact on Miss W and £300 compensation isnt 
adequate.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss W. I dont underestimate the difficult situation she 
found herself in both financially and personally. No doubt she had a terrible time and I hope 
things have improved for her. I also accept, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, that there were times Shawbrook let her down. But no matter my sympathies, I 
must approach this matter objectively and bear in mind Shawbrook isnt to blame for all the 
circumstances Miss W found herself in with her work, personal and family life. And although I 
accept this will come as a disappointment to Miss W, my opinion remains that £300 
compensation fairly reflects the impact Shawbrooks failings had on her.
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman