DRN-3061581
The complaint
Miss C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) misled her by 
issuing a notification that her that her finance agreement had been cleared.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Miss C entered into an agreement under which at the end she had the option to return the 
car or pay a balloon payment of £5,687.08.  The agreement came to an end on 19 March 
2020 and she had neither returned the car or paid the outstanding sum due. I gather the car 
had serious mechanical fault and this would have cost a significant sum to repair. I believe 
this meant it wasnt in a suitable condition to return. 
VFS issued two arrears letters on 19 March and 1 April. Miss C asked about her options on 
7 April and VFS told her of these on 14 April. It sent another chaser letter and then a 
Clearance of Obligation letter in April. VFS says this was issued automatically at the end of 
the agreement as it was presumed she would maintain her obligations.  It appears that Miss 
C assumed that she wasnt obliged to pay off her debt and she ordered a new car and paid a 
deposit.
Miss C was next contacted on 1 February 2021by VFS seeking payment of the arrears and 
issuing a notice of default. Miss C subsequently complained. 
VFS sent numerous letters and messages which made it clear that she owed the balloon 
payment or she should return the car and I cannot see how the one notice of clearance can 
be seen as overriding these, or the original agreement. 
I cannot see why Miss C thought VFS had decided to forgo a significant sum without any 
explanation. She chose to buy another car and given that this was a major decision it is 
reasonable to have expected her to ensure she had cleared her debt. I dont think it was 
reasonable for her to have relied on one notice when she had already had a stream of 
communications making it clear she owed payment. VFS had explained her options and I 
believe it would have been clear to her that she owed either balloon payment or she had to 
return the car.
It is regrettable that VFS didnt act sooner to chase the debt after the clearance letter, but I 
dont believe that means it is not entitled to seek payment of the outstanding sum. 
In short Miss C entered into a binding agreement and the issue of the clearance notice does 
not absolve her of her obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman