DRN-3378754
The complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money, were 
wrong to provide him with credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Madison approved Mr Bs application for a credit card in August 2021. The credit limit was 
set at £1,200.
Mr B says the credit card should never have been supplied as the credit was unaffordable.
Madison initially disagreed, they thought that the checks they had conducted showed that  
Mr B did have enough disposable income to afford to repay the credit sustainably. 
Our investigator didnt agree, she thought the credit file showed signs that Mr B was already 
struggling financially at the time of his application. He had other credit cards in long standing 
repayment plans. The investigator thought Madison should therefore refund any interest and 
charges Mr B had incurred as a result of being provided with the card, but she thought Mr B 
had had the benefit of the capital so she didnt think it would be fair to refund that as well.
Madison agreed but Mr B didnt. He said if the card hadnt been provided he wouldnt have 
developed the debt he now had. Mr B therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would agree that Madison shouldnt have approved Mr Bs application for credit. I think the 
checks they completed were proportionate at the time of application, but I think there were 
clear signs from those checks that Mr B was struggling financially as he was in two separate 
payment plans to other credit card providers. I think it should have been clear at the time of 
application that Mr B would be unlikely to be able to manage further credit card commitments 
when he was already struggling with the ones he had. So, I think the credit was 
unaffordable.
In those circumstances we usually tell the business to refund any interest, charges, and 
insurance the consumer may have incurred as a result of the lending decision. But we dont 
ask the business to refund the spending on the account as the consumer has had the benefit 
of that spending. Whilst I understand Mr Bs concerns Im afraid I think thats the case here 
and, whilst Im upholding the complaint, Im not asking Madison to refund the spending on 
the account.
Putting things right
As I dont think Madison ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr B should 
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Madison should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Madison should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Madison should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from his credit file. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison CF UK Limited to deduct tax from any award 
of interest. It must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he 
asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman