DRN-4381750
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed his account. He also 
says HSBC didnt release all the money held in the account back to him. He says this 
caused him financial problems and he wants compensation.
What happened
Mr G had a personal current account with HSBC. 
In August 2022, HSBC reviewed Mr Gs account after two credits of £20,000 and £920 were 
paid into the account.  Whilst it completed its review HSBC blocked the account  which 
meant Mr G couldnt access any money in the account other than any wages or pension 
payments. During its review HSBC asked Mr G to provide information about the two credits. 
In November 2022, Mr G told the bank that the money had come from an account he held 
with another bank. And that it was payment for artefacts hed sold. But he couldnt provide 
any evidence to support his explanation.  
Whilst HSBC carried on completing its review it received a fraud report from another bank 
which identified the two payments as fraudulent. That is the holders of the account had been 
the victims of scams and hadnt authorised the payments. HSBC continued to block Mr Gs 
account whilst it reviewed the information he had provided and the reports from the other 
banks regarding the scams. Following its review, in January 2023, it decided to close Mr Gs 
account immediately, it returned what was left of the fraudulent funds back to the sending 
bank and released Mr Gs closing balance of just over £600 back to him.
Mr G complained to HSBC about the restriction on his account. He telephoned HSBC to try 
and find out what was happening with his account and the reasons behind the banks 
actions. He said that the money paid into his account had come from another of his bank 
accounts and that he intended to send the money on to his business partner who was based 
overseas. He also said he wasnt able to deposit the cheque for his closing balance as he 
wasnt able to open another bank account. But said that the cheque doesnt represent all the 
money that was in his account, so he wants HSBC to return this to him. In response, HSBC 
said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and 
relevant regulations when it had blocked, closed, and returned the funds to source.  
Mr G wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that the restrictions on his account meant his business partners company had 
collapsed due to him not being able to send the money that was intended for her. He also 
said that HSBC didnt update him, allow him access to any money and took too long to 
complete its review. He wants HSBC to release the other money that was in his account and 
pay him compensation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Gs account. She said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And that it hadnt taken too long to complete its review of his 
account. She also said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in not releasing any other money 
that had been paid into the account back to Mr G.
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr G disagreed. He said he wants the rest of the 
money that was paid into his account and a proper explanation for why the bank blocked and 
closed his account in the first place.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. They can 
broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to 
prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these obligations HSBC may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about 
payments, and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and 
obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Gs account also permit HSBC to review 
an account and ask its customers for information. 
Fraud is a serious matter, and one way financial businesses and banks can help to tackle 
fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are 
received into them. And thats what happened here. I should also add that HSBC is not 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of a fraud of financial crime 
before it decided to block his account and carry out a review.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HSBC to block Mr Gs account. HSBC has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so HSBC were complying with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. And it enabled HSBC to consider how best to react to the 
information it had received from the sending bank about the money that had been paid into 
Mr Gs account. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr G inconvenience and 
upset when it decided to block his account and asked him to provide information, I cant say 
the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
From looking at the evidence, I can see that Mr Gs account was blocked from August 2022 
until it was closed in January 2023. I do accept that it was blocked for around six months. 
But I do not consider that it would be right for me to conclude it should not have taken in 
excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter 
of principle  to do what it did. Im also satisfied from looking at the available information that 
HSBC was proactive in completing its review from the time it blocked Mr Gs account. So, I 
cant say HSBC has treated him unfairly in taking the time it has to complete its review. Ive 
also kept in mind that throughout the review Mr G was able to access his pension payments, 
which I can see he did on more than one occasion, so he wasnt left completely without 
funds.
I understand of course why Mr G wants to know the exact reasons behind HSBCs actions. 
And I can see that Mr G has asked HSBC to explain itself on more than one occasion. From 
looking at the banks contact notes I can see that HSBC kept Mr G updated about what it 
was doing by providing him with as much information as it could. But HSBC doesnt disclose 
to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell 
Mr G the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr G this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Mr G says that HSBC have only given back a fraction of the money that was left in his 
account when it was closed. He says the bank still owes him a significant amount of money 
and he has been left out of pocket. Ive looked at the information HSBC has provided 
regarding the money that was paid into Mr Gs account which confirmed the payments as 
fraudulent. Ive noted too that Mr G has said he cant provide anything showing his 
entitlement to the money. Without any evidence to show that Mr G was entitled to the money 
that was paid into his account, I do not find I can fairly ask HSBC to refund the money to 
Mr G. HSBC sent the funds back to source. This ensures the funds are sent back to the 
correct person. Based on the evidence Ive seen I agree that this was the right action in the 
circumstances. So, I cant say HSBC has treated Mr G unfairly in doing so and I wont be 
asking HSBC to refund this money to him. 
 
Ive next gone on to consider whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Mr Gs account. Its 
generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very 
good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or 
require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account in closing the account. The 
terms and conditions outline that HSBC can close a customers account with two months 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case, 
HSBC blocked Mr Gs account, and then closed it. So, I consider HSBC closed Mr Gs 
account immediately, since he wasnt able to use the account following the block. For HSBC 
to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  
and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that HSBC did. So, it was 
entitled to close the account as its already done and end its relationship with Mr G. 
In summary, I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant conclude that HSBC have treated Mr G 
unfairly when it blocked and closed his account, So, I wont be telling HSBC to do anything 
to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman