DRN-2756185
The complaint
Mr G complains he was given incorrect information when he applied for his Lloyds Bank PLC 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr G took a Lloyds mortgage in joint names with his now ex-wife. Following their relationship 
ending, he says his ex-wife stopped contributing to the mortgage. Mr G complained to Lloyds 
as his ex-wife wasnt contributing to the mortgage. Lloyds responded to this complaint on 
4 June 2019. It explained that it couldnt get involved in a dispute between Mr G and his ex-
wife, and that both of them were jointly and severally responsible for the whole mortgage 
and therefore the whole monthly payment.  
Mr G complained again in 2021. This time, he said the mortgage had been mis-sold as he 
had been told he would only be responsible for half of the payments if his ex-wife were to 
stop paying. He said he wouldnt have taken the mortgage had he known he would be 
responsible for the entire monthly payment in the event the joint party were to stop paying. 
Lloyds responded to his second complaint in January 2021. It said its mortgage advisor 
wouldnt have given him this information as it was incorrect. Mr G remained unhappy so 
referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He explained that we couldnt look into 
the complaint about Mr Gs ex-wife not contributing to the mortgage as Mr G hadnt referred 
this to us within six months of Lloyds issuing its final response letter. He thought it was 
unlikely Lloyds wouldve told Mr G that he was only responsible for half of the mortgage and 
half of the payments. And he was satisfied the mortgage offer and terms and conditions 
made this sufficiently clear.   
Mr G didnt agree. He said the mortgage advisor had given him incorrect information, and 
hed relied on this. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has confirmed that he only wishes me to consider the aspect of his complaint regarding 
the mortgage being mis-sold. Hes accepted what our investigator has said regarding the 
other part of his complaint not being referred to us in time. So Ive focussed my decision 
solely on whether the mortgage was mis-sold.
We dont know what was said at the time Mr G and his ex-wife took out the mortgage. Whilst 
its possible he was given incorrect information as he says, this seems unlikely to me. I say 
this as nearly all mortgages in the UK are set up on a joint and severally liable basis. This 
means that both parties are liable and responsible for the full debt and any payments that go 
with it. It seems Mr G and his ex-wife had an agreement with each other to be responsible 
for half each. But that isnt the contract they entered into with Lloyds and Lloyds isnt 
responsible for enforcing any such agreement. I think the mortgage offer and terms and 
conditions are clear how liability is split  jointly and severally. 
Even if Mr G was given incorrect information, Im not persuaded he wouldnt have proceeded 
with the mortgage application as he says. This is because its highly unlikely he wouldve 
been able to go elsewhere and get a mortgage on the basis of how he says he thought this 
one worked  liability split on an equal basis. So, I think he wouldve proceeded regardless.
Ultimately, the loss to Mr G has been caused by his ex-wife no longer contributing to the 
mortgage payments. This isnt the fault of Lloyds, and isnt something this service can get 
involved in. Mr G may wish to consider how he resolves this with his ex-wife through other 
avenues, such as legal options which may be available to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman