DRN-2378911
The complaint
Ms P says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2004.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for 
the sale and this complaint. So Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Ms P applied for a store card in 2004. She completed a leaflet most likely while shopping 
and was sold the PPI. From what Ive seen Ms P paid premiums totalling £20.26 for the 
PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because Ms P told us she suffered 
from mild asthma and the policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators findings. It said that because Ms P had described 
her asthma as mild she would still have bought the policy even if she had been told 
about the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.
In October 2020  I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties 
to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about. 
My provisional findings were that I was intending to uphold this complaint because I didnt 
think Ms P would have been able to make a valid claim for unemployment. In my provisional; 
decision I said:
In July 2004 Ms P was a self-employed business analyst working on a contract basis. 
She has told us she had been working in this position for 12 months on a six-monthly 
contract.
The PPI policy sold to Ms P excluded claims for unemployment as a result of a fixed 
term contract ending unless Ms P had been:
In continuous work with the same employer for at least 24 months and your contract 
has been renewed at least twice
Ms P had not been with the same employer for 24 months and her 6-month contract 
could not have been renewed twice.
So I dont think Ms P would have been able to make a successful unemployment claim if 
she lost her job.
I think it is very unlikely that this important exclusion was made clear to Ms P at the time 
she was sold the policy. And if it had been I dont think Ms P would have gone ahead and 
bought the policy knowing she would not be able to claim under the unemployment cover.
I also set out how AXA should put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither AXA nor Ms P have replied with any new evidence or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
October 2020.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms P wouldve owed when the account was closed if 
the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms P owed when she closed 
the account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms P would have 
owed when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should 8% a year.
C.If  when AXA works out what Ms P would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
P paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms 
P wouldve owed AXA something on the store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Ms P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay 
Ms P compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Steve ThomasOmbudsman