DRN-4358615
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr A received around £27,000 into his Barclays current account. The money 
was then passed between Mr As other accounts and sent on to third parties. One of these 
payments was flagged, and Mr A got in touch with Barclays to confirm it was him making it.
Barclays then received a report that the funds Mr A received were the proceeds of fraud. 
They asked Mr A for proof of his entitlement to the money, but received none. They closed 
Mr As accounts and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr A complained in 2023. He said a good friend had paid the money into his account without 
his permission, then asked him to forward it on to help pay some business bills. Mr A said he 
moved the money to his savings to avoid mixing it up with his normal spending. He said he 
forwarded some of the money on as asked, and kept some until his friend would tell him 
where it came from. He said he had no evidence to back this up.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Barclays were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Barclays did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Barclays received an official report that Mr A had received and paid on fraudulent funds.
At about the same item as this incident, Mr A received another set of fraudulent funds of 
about the same amount into an account of his at a different bank, which he also accessed 
using his phone in a similar way. In that case, Mr A claimed he was hacked. So to be on the 
safe side, Ill consider that possibility here.
Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that the fraudulent funds were paid on using 
Mr As mobile phone  the same device hed used for a long time before and still used after 
 at an IP address which he used for his normal genuine spending. These payments were 
properly authenticated and theres no evidence of any hacking or unauthorised access. Mr A 
has previously admitted to forwarding on these fraudulent funds, and he also spoke to 
Barclays at the time to confirm that it was him paying the money on.
Im satisfied that Mr A was aware that hed received the funds and that he authorised them 
being paid on.
It is not likely or plausible that Mr As friend would simply give him over £27,000 in proceeds 
of crime out of the blue and without Mr As prior agreement, in the hope that hed forward it 
on in time. It would need to be forwarded on quickly, before the fraud gets reported and the 
account gets blocked. So by doing this, the friend would most likely just lose a huge amount 
of money while getting their close friend into serious trouble.
Id also have expected Mr A to be able to evidence what this friend said. They were 
apparently such close friends that they trusted Mr A with tens of thousands of pounds. So 
they would surely have a long history together of texts, emails, social media messages, and 
so on. And Mr A would surely have queried what was going on, and would need to have 
been sent written messages with things like the bank details he needed to send the money 
to. Yet hes said he cant evidence what happened at all. The only thing hes sent us is an 
editable draft of an email asking the friend for help clearing his name, supposedly sent 9 
months after the incident. And Im afraid that doesnt substantiate what Mr A said happened.
Mr A paid most of the fraudulent money to his own accounts, and appears to have benefitted 
significantly from the fraud. And the way he used his account is consistent with what Id 
expect if he was either directly involved in the fraud itself or involved indirectly by acting as a 
money mule.
In summary, Mr A received and benefitted from the proceeds of fraud. The evidence strongly 
supports that the fraudulent funds were then paid on with his consent. His explanation for 
why he had the money is not likely or plausible, and hes not been able to provide any 
evidence which substantiates what hes said. The way Mr A acted is consistent with him 
being knowingly involved in the fraud, and Ive not seen anything which makes it seem 
unlikely or implausible that he was knowingly involved.
So it seems fair that Barclays registered the appropriate marker against Mr A at CIFAS. It 
follows that it was also fair they closed his accounts, which they were allowed to do under 
the terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr A to receive. But given the evidence at hand and the balance of probabilities, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman