DRN-3654417
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard declined to increase his 
credit limit. 
What happened
In March 2020 Barclaycard took the decision to decrease the credit limit on Mr S credit card. 
Mr S complained to Barclaycard and it sent him a number of final responses but didnt agree 
it had acted unfairly. 
In April 2021, Mr S asked Barclaycard to increase it again. But Barclaycard declined Mr S 
request and he complained. Barclaycard sent Mr S a final response on 18 June 2021 but 
didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Barclaycard said it had taken Mr S circumstances and the 
available information into account when deciding whether to increase his credit limit. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said we couldnt consider Mr S complaints that were covered in Barclaycards 
earlier final responses because they werent referred to us within the relevant time limits. 
The investigator said we could consider Mr S complaint about Barclaycards decision to 
decline his credit limit increase which was covered in its final response dated 18 June 2021. 
The investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly by declining Mr S credit limit 
application in April 2021. Mr S didnt accept the investigators view so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to being by confirming that, in line with the investigators letters, this decision will only 
relate to the issues covered in Barclaycards final response dated 18 June 2021 that relate to 
Mr S credit limit increase application. Im not going to discuss issues that werent referred to 
us within the time limits noted in the rules. 
When Mr S asked Barclaycard to increase his credit limit, broadly in line with the previous 
limit, it had to ensure the request met its lending criteria. I appreciate Mr S may feel 
Barclaycard was replacing an existing limit. But any increases in a credit limit, despite 
previous limits, are subject to new checks. 
Barclaycard has confirmed the application was reviewed by the system it uses to assess 
further borrowing like credit limit increases. Barclaycard has confirmed it took information 
from Mr S credit file inti account along with an income and expenditure assessment. 
Barclaycard then applied its lending criteria but declined to increase the credit limit. 
Barclaycard has told us its obliged to ensure all new borrowing is affordable and can be 
repaid in a sustainable way. And Barclaycard says its lending checks are designed to ensure 
it lends in a responsible way. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Barclaycard considered his application in 
line with its normal process and lending criteria. Im satisfied that because the application 
didnt meet Barclaycards criteria it was reasonably declined without mistake. I appreciate Mr 
S managed a much larger credit limit in the past, but Barclaycard carried out a review of his 
circumstances at the time he applied to increase the credit limit. And based on that 
information, which was up to date at the point of application, it declined to proceed. Thats a 
decision Barclaycard is entitled to make. 
Barclaycard told Mr S he can reapply after six months. Mr S should note that each credit limit 
application will be subject to Barclaycards lending criteria. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman