DRN-3448438
The complaint
Mr L complains that Starling Bank Limited has unfairly dismissed his disputed transactions 
claim and has closed his account in the process.
What happened
Mr L has said his laptop was stolen on 16 April 2021, which he reported to the police in 
Ukraine where the theft occurred. Following this, four payments debited his current account 
with Starling Bank and went to his account on a betting website, which Mr L says he uses 
regularly to complete bet exchanges on, totaling £10,000. These were broken down as 
payments of £3,000 and £2,000 on 16 April followed by payments of £1,000 and £4,000 on 
17 April. All were made using his card details. A further payment of £5,000 was attempted 
but Mr L had put a block on his debit card by that point.
Mr L contacted Starling Bank to request a refund of the disputed transactions. Mr L was 
unhappy with the length of time that Starling Bank took to complete its investigation and felt 
that a fraud dispute should have been raised immediately, and not a card dispute which he 
believes was raised. 
Starling Bank confirmed that it had followed the correct process when dealing with the 
disputed transactions claim. And it concluded that due to the spending patterns of the 
disputed transactions matching that of Mr Ls genuine spending, it would not be refunding 
the transactions. It believed Mr L authorised the payments himself. It also made the decision 
to close Mr Ls account in June 2021.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. After looking into the complaint, the adjudicator 
agreed that Starling Bank acted reasonably when it decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions, and that it had closed the account in line with the account terms and 
conditions. She said that she would have expected Mr L to report the matter to the bank as 
soon as he lost his laptop, but he didnt do so for two days. And she could see no benefit 
from anyone other than the genuine cardholder accessing the betting account as any 
winnings would have to be returned to the same bank account. Finally, she felt that the 
pattern of the disputed transactions was not typical of a fraudster as often they will use as 
much of the available funds as quickly as possible. But here just over £9,000 remained in the 
account and only the four payments were made. 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He explained that as he had only lost his 
laptop and not his debit card, he saw no reason to refer the matter to the bank as he didnt 
think anyone would be able to access his funds. And that while the merchant is primarily a 
betting website, he uses it as an exchange, which acts more as a trading platform. Because 
of this, it is possible for someone to use the funds in his online account to drive up odds and 
benefit a third party. Finally, he said that it would seem more logical for a fraudster to try and 
make payments in a pattern that werent typical to fraudulent payments to stay undetected 
for longer. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Starling Banks decision not to refund the disputed transactions is 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Generally, Starling Bank is able to hold Mr L liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This 
position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and 
conditions of his account.
From what Ive seen, both parties agree that the payments were made via the merchant 
website using the genuine card details that had been securely saved onto the website. While 
this is important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr L is liable for the transactions. Starling 
Bank also has to show its more likely than not that Mr L himself made or otherwise 
authorised the transactions.
Mr L has said that his laptop was stolen on 16 April 2021 and that his last genuine 
transaction was a payment to a taxi company that day. Hes said that his laptop had a 
password, but the fraudster was able to bypass this to get into his laptop. Once they had 
access, he believes the fraudster was able to find his online account with the merchant and 
that with enough technical knowledge, could use the web browser in such a way to locate 
the password for his account. Mr L says he discovered the disputed transactions on 18 April 
2021 and contacted Starling Bank via his banking app. He also blocked his debit card to 
prevent further transactions. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what happened, so Ive considered all the evidence 
available to me to consider what I think is more likely than not in the circumstances. 
I accept that its not impossible someone stole Mr Ls laptop and was able to bypass its 
security by hacking his password  therefore gaining access to his laptop. 
I agree that its not impossible, though I think unlikely, that someone was able to hack the 
web browser on the laptop to show them Mr Ls log in details for the betting website and gain 
access to his online account. 
I also agree that it is not impossible someone could find a way to benefit from using 
someone elses betting exchange, though I think this wouldnt be common knowledge to 
most people. 
But in order for me to agree with Mr L, Id have to think its more likely that the individual who 
stole Mr Ls laptop had the technical ability to hack into his laptop, then happen across his 
betting account and also have the technical knowledge to manipulate the web browser to gain access to his account. And that this individual also understood betting exchanges and 
how they work and immediately started crediting the account in order to make use of it. 
When you compile this sequence of events, the testimony becomes less and less likely. In 
addition to this, my understanding is that its more likely the fraudster would also have 
needed the card verification value, or the CVV, which is the three digits on the back of      
Mr Ls physical debit card to complete the payment on the web browser. As Mr L says he still 
had his debit card, this again makes the scenario outlined above less likely.
Mr L doesnt dispute that he regularly uses the betting website, though I do appreciate that 
he doesnt view his activity as gambling. The disputed transactions match with his previous 
patterns of spending in the months leading up to them. A notification was sent to Mr L five 
hours after the first disputed transaction saying that a credit of £6,034.51 from the betting 
website would be applied to his current account when Starling Bank receives it. I understand 
that Mr L has said he didnt receive notifications on his phone, but this shows that the 
individual making the transactions also requested for £6,034.51 to be returned from the 
online betting account to Mr Ls current account. Mr L has said this could be the fraudster 
trying to make the spending look legitimate. But when I consider the series of events as a 
whole, as well as the pattern of transactions looking like previous genuine transactions by  
Mr L, it also looks more likely the credit was as a result of genuine activity on the betting 
website by Mr L. If it were an unknown fraudster in operation, it would seem more likely than 
not they would have tried to recycle any funds credited to Mr Ls account and it would also 
seem that such credits would be counter to what Mr L says the fraudster was trying to 
achieve. 
I note that Starling Bank highlighted Mr L had a similar disputed transaction claim with a 
third-party Bank. This said that a payment had been made to a gambling website from Mr Ls 
account with the third-party bank, after his laptop had been stolen. The claim stated that the 
fraudster accessed Mr Ls laptop which had some banking details on it, and that he didnt 
make the deposit to the betting account himself. But this occurred a month before Mr Ls 
claim with Starling Bank, so they are separate incidents. Mr L has said he doesnt have an 
active account with the third-party Bank, so he cant contact them for further information 
about this incident. While its possible that Mr L could have had another account where 
fraudulent activity occurred - I think its very unlikely that such a similar claim would happen 
in such a short space of time. 
So, on balance, having taken everything available to me into consideration, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr L himself authorised or otherwise made the payments to the betting 
account. So I think Starling Banks decision not to refund the disputed transactions is 
reasonable.
Account closure
I also note that Mr Ls account has since been closed by Starling Bank. Mr L has mentioned 
that this made dealing with the claim for the disputed transactions more difficult. Having 
carefully reviewed the evidence, as well as the terms and condition of the account, I think 
Starling Bank acted fairly and reasonably when it gave Mr L seven days notice of account 
closure. While this may have made the disputed transactions claim more complicated to deal 
with, I dont think Starling Bank has made an error in the circumstances.    
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Staling Bank Limited.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022. Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman