DRN-1787469
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined a claim he made under 
his furniture protection policy.
When I refer to Amtrust, Im also referring to any of its appointed agents or representatives. 
Mrs W made the initial complaint to Amtrust and has been representing Mr W in this 
complaint  but as Mr W is the policyholder, Ive referred to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr W made a claim to Amtrust in May 2019 after a child had an accident on his two-seater 
sofa.
Amtrust sent a technician who said the sofa would require a deep clean, but they only had 
stain removal equipment with them. They suggested Amtrust send a different technician with 
the appropriate equipment. Amtrust initially thought it didnt have somebody available to do 
that. So, it told Mr W it would look into the options for repairing or replacing the sofa instead 
of cleaning it.
Amtrust made enquiries with the manufacturer and found the sofa had been discontinued. It 
began calculating a cash offer to settle the claim but then decided to see if it could find a 
technician with the right equipment who could visit Mr W and clean the sofa. It was able to 
do so, so it contacted Mr W to arrange the visit. Mr W wasnt happy with this because he 
understood Amtrust were going to replace the sofa  and at this point it was around five 
weeks since the accident had happened, and he thought the condition of the sofa was 
worsening. After further discussion Mr W agreed for the visit to go ahead.
After the technician visited and carried out cleaning, Mr W said some staining remained and 
the sofa had an unpleasant odour. The technician said it would be difficult to completely 
remove the stain because of the condition the sofa was in and the time that had passed 
since the accident. Amtrust said it wouldnt do anything further for Mr W and he complained.
In its final response Amtrust said it was correct to decline the claim because the policy didnt 
cover any damage that happened gradually. And it said it had handled the claim in a 
reasonable timescale. Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said Amtrust 
was aware of the cause of the damage from the outset and should have sent a technician 
with the appropriate equipment the first time. Or the first technician should have prevented 
further damage from occurring to the sofa. Because Amtrust didnt do either of these things, 
he thought Amtrust should be responsible for any further damage that occurred. To resolve 
the complaint, he thought Amtrust should replace the sofa, in line with the terms of the 
policy, including the scatter cushions.
Amtrust didnt agree. It said it wouldnt guarantee to attempt to clean the sofa at the first visit 
because the policy contained a term which says it may ask to inspect the sofa. It also said the policy covered stain removal and no other activities were covered, such as deep 
cleaning or removing waste to access a stain. Amtrust went on to say there had been no 
meaningful attempt by Mr W to remove the waste from the sofa. In Amtrusts view Mr W 
allowed the waste to dry into the sofa and that made stain removal impossible.
As Amtrust didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Amtrust was unfair to decline the claim, so Im going to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers the cost of repair in the event of a sudden unintentional incident resulting 
in a stain. Its not in dispute that the original accident or incident was sudden, unintentional 
and caused a stain on the sofa. I think its reasonable for repair to include cleaning  if it 
removes the stain and puts the sofa back to the way it was prior to the incident.
Mr W says the cleaning Amtrust carried out wasnt entirely successful and Amtrusts 
technician seems to have accepted that. Amtrust says the policy doesnt cover odours but I 
think the remaining stains alone were enough to say the sofa hadnt been repaired.
The policy goes on to say that if a repair cant be achieved, the claim will be settled by 
replacing the damaged part, replacing the sofa, or paying cash. In this case a repair hasnt 
been achieved. But Amtrust thinks its reasonable to decline the claim, rather than settling it 
by one of the methods mentioned in the policy.
Amtrust says the policy doesnt cover any damage which happens gradually. I agree theres 
a policy term which says that. Theres no dispute that the original damage in May 2019 
occurred suddenly, so the policy term doesnt apply to that. By the time Amtrust tried to 
clean the damage, it was around two and a half months after the claim had been made. I 
understand Amtrust considers that during this time, additional damage had been caused 
gradually and therefore it was entitled to decline the claim entirely.
Amtrusts technician says that it would be difficult to remove the stain damage entirely by 
that point. They gave two reasons for that  the time that had passed and the condition of 
the sofa. Amtrust thinks Mr W is responsible for both.
Mr W reported the claim on 17 May, the first technician visited in early June and on 11 June 
Amtrust told Mr W it would look at repairing or replacing the sofa. On 21 June Mr W was told 
a second technician would visit him and I understand 2 July was suggested. He questioned 
this as it wasn't what he was expecting, and I dont think it was unreasonable for him to do 
so. On 16 July Mr W agreed for the visit to go ahead and that took place on 31 July.
Even if Mr W had agreed immediately to the second visit, it would have taken place around 
six weeks after the incident, through no fault of Mr Ws. And Amtrust had the opportunity, 
when it visited the first time, two weeks after the incident, to ensure appropriate equipment 
was taken and used. The claim form Mr W filled out is very clear about the nature of the 
damage, so I think Amtrust ought to have been aware about what equipment was likely to 
have been needed. Looking at the timeline, I think Amtrust was responsible for most of the 
time it took to carry out the cleaning  not Mr W.
A policy term Amtrust has mentioned says it may ask to inspect the sofa  thats not the 
same as saying the sofa wont be cleaned so I dont think that term is relevant here.Amtrust says that Mr W should have done more to prepare the sofa for cleaning and keep it 
in good condition prior to the technician visiting. The policy says that in the event of a spill 
the policyholder should blot liquids and remove solids but not rub or use inappropriate 
cleaning materials as this could cause further damage. Mr Ws partner says this is what she 
did.
The only photos Ive seen are from the second technicians visit. In my view the photos show 
Mr W has made a reasonable effort to follow the policy term. Whats left of the waste is 
largely ingrained in the fabric, so I dont think it can be removed without rubbing or using 
cleaning materials. And Im mindful that as these photos were taken two months after the 
accident, the waste is likely to have dried in over time naturally by then. No photos have 
been provided from the first technicians visit, but a report has. It doesnt mention any 
concerns about the way Mr W kept the sofa or his attempts to clean it  and it doesnt 
recommend he take any further action. So, I dont think it would be fair to say Mr W is 
responsible for the sofa not responding to cleaning or that he caused the damage to get 
worse.
Overall Amtrust hasnt persuaded me that its reasonable for it to decline the claim. So, I 
think it should follow the policy terms about settling it. As the stains couldnt be cleaned, Mr 
W has disposed of the sofa, which is understandable. That means the only options available 
to Amtrust are to replace the sofa or offer a cash payment. The settlement should include 
the scatter cushions as they were also stained and have since been disposed of. I 
understand Amtrust have paid £90 as a goodwill gesture whilst investigating the complaint 
and Mr W has accepted that. I think thats a reasonable amount to compensate Mr W for the 
inconvenience caused during the claim, so Im not going to require Amtrust to pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to settle the claim in line with the 
policy terms, including the scatter cushions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman