DRN-2724005
The complaint
Mr T complains about the valuation of his car by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
following an accident.
What happened
Mr T had car insurance with Admiral. Unfortunately, in December 2020 he was involved in 
an accident in which his car was damaged, so he raised a claim. After arranging for the car 
to be inspected by an engineer, Admiral deemed the car a total loss.
Admiral calculated the market value of his car to be £6,350. After deducting his policy 
excess of £850, it offered a payment of £5,500 in settlement of the claim. Mr T didnt think 
this was a fair valuation of the car and so he complained to Admiral. Mr T highlighted that it 
was a very rare specification of a classic car, in very good condition and with low mileage. 
He highlighted that it had been restored with parts from the original manufacturer. He felt a 
fairer valuation was considerably more, around £12,000, which is what hed privately 
purchased the car for in 2020.
In its final response letter Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It advised that valuing second 
hand cars wasnt an exact science. Given the age of the car, it hadnt been able to use the 
motor industry valuation tool it normally used, so it had instructed an independent engineer 
to value the car. It explained the engineer had also researched comparable cars for sale and 
provided evidence which supports the valuation reached. 
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into things and used the valuation tools at our disposal to consider Mr Ts complaint. He was 
of the opinion the valuation was fair so he didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T disagreed as he felt the valuations didnt take into account the unique specification, 
mint condition and low mileage of his particular car. Mr T shared an advert for a car of the 
same make and model but a lower specification which was on sale for £9,990. As no 
agreement could be reached the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy. These state that Admiral will pay the 
market value of the car which it defines as The cost of replacing your car, with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the 
loss. Use of the term market in which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail 
value, will not apply if you bought your car privately or at an auction.
So whilst I can see Mr T purchased the car for £12,000 not long before the accident, Im 
satisfied that this doesnt mean Admiral ought necessarily to pay Mr T this amount for the 
car. The value Admiral has agreed to pay, as stated in the terms and conditions, is the price 
it would cost to buy a similar car at the time of loss. 
As Admiral has pointed out, motor valuation isnt an exact science. When I consider this type 
of case I look at the motor-trade guides and other supporting evidence to see whether I think 
the insurers valuation was reasonable.
Given the age of the car, Admiral wasnt able to use the motor valuation tool it normally 
refers to. So it hired an independent engineer to provide a valuation  and I think this was a 
reasonable approach to take. 
I appreciate Mr T doesnt agree with the valuation given, but the engineers report indicates 
they took into account the above average condition and the low mileage of Mr Ts car when 
reaching their valuation. The report also shows the engineer looked into current market 
trends when valuing the car and provided evidence of adverts for similar cars currently on 
sale. These are all things Id expect an engineer to do when reaching a valuation  as per 
the policy terms and conditions. And based on this, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to 
have relied on the valuation they provided.
In addition, having independently checked the main motor-trade guides, our investigator was 
able to find one guide that provided a valuation for Mr Ts car. It valued Mr Ts car at £5,030, 
so lower than Admirals engineers assessment. The motor-trade guides use nationwide 
research of likely selling prices based on the age, mileage, specification, model and 
condition of the car on any specified date. The price we use from these guides is a retail 
figure (how much the car would usually sell to a customer for), rather than a trade price (the 
price a dealer would pay before adding mark-up). And this more fairly reflects the price an 
average customer would likely pay. So, Im satisfied this tool offers valuations in line with the 
policy definition of market value. And it suggests the engineers valuation was reasonable.
Ive considered the evidence Mr T has sent us in the form of an advertisement for a similar 
car to his, but with lower specifications, on sale at a much higher price of £9,990. But Im not 
persuaded that this one advert for a higher price means his car was worth more than both 
the engineer and the motor-trade guide says it was. Firstly, it is not uncommon for the 
advertised price to be higher than the seller might expect to receive, to allow room for 
negotiation. Indeed, the very same car has since been reduced to a sale price of £8,990.  
And secondly, as outlined above, the motor trade guide takes into account historic sale and 
advertised prices. I appreciate Mr T has stressed his car was a particularly unique factory 
specification, which limits the extent to which this car can be compared with others of a 
similar make and model. But of the nearly 20 advertised prices for this type of car available 
on the motor-trade tool guide, only one was higher than Admirals valuation, at a cost of 
£6,990  still much lower than the advert Mr T has provided. 
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Admirals valuation is 
unfair. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman