DRN-3022970
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
increased his car insurance premium at renewal. 
What happened
Mr W arranged an annual policy with LV in January 2020 and received a 10% discount on 
his premium as he was deemed a new customer. He paid around £747.
When the policy came up for renewal, LV quoted a premium of around £857. Mr W wasnt 
happy with the quote and, in response, LV agreed to offer a lower premium of around £814.
Mr W paid the lower premium but complained to LV that, when he took out the first policy in 
2020, hed been mis-led into believing the discount for new customers would continue to be 
applied even in subsequent policy years. LV replied that it took several factors into 
consideration in assessing and pricing risk, making it difficult to maintain premiums year after 
year. LV added that it felt its website made the application of the discount for new customers 
clear and that it hadnt mis-led him.
Unhappy with LVs responses, Mr W complained to us. One of our investigators looked into 
his complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. They thought Mr W could no 
longer be considered a new customer when the policy renewal came about, meaning it was 
fair for LV to remove the discount for new customers from his policy. The investigator felt LV 
had provided adequate notice to Mr W that the premium could increase and explanation as 
to the factors that could drive premium increases.   
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. Among other things, he maintained that LV 
had mis-led him and said hed have thought this service would be keen to stop such a 
practice. So, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W suggests we have the power to regulate the activities of financial businesses such as 
LV, and that we should use those powers to intervene in this case. Id like to explain that 
although our remits relatively wide-ranging, there are still limits to what we can and cant do. 
One of the things we dont have the power to do is to regulate financial businesses. Thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, we at the Financial Ombudsman Service 
resolve individual financial complaints informally and independently.
Having considered Mr Ws complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
It seems LVs website said there was a discount for new customers when the insurance was 
bought online.
Mr W says he took that to mean the discount would be applied to the first policy he bought 
and that it would continue to be applied to all his subsequent policies. He said the website 
doesnt make it clear that wasnt the case.
Mr W says little or no detail was given in the information about how the discount would be 
applied. I gather there was no separate explanation given as to who was considered a new 
customer or for how long the discount would apply.
Which leaves us with the information provided on LVs website, together with the 
circumstances in which Mr W was arranging the policy. Having carefully considered all of 
this, I cant fairly interpret LVs statement in the way Mr W has. I say that because, in 2020, 
Mr W was clearly a new customer to LV and he quite reasonably expected to be entitled to 
the discount.
I dont think a reasonable consumer in Mr Ws circumstances would have considered 
themselves a new customer by the time the policy was due for renewal a year later. Nor do I 
think a reasonable consumer would have understood that the discount would continue to be 
applied to subsequent renewals. Such a discount could effectively be considered a loyalty 
discount and I dont think thats implied, or was intended to be implied, by the discount 
information. Hence it was explained that the discount was for new customers. 
Mr W says the reason he moved away from his previous insurer was because of gradual 
premium increases. And that LV had assured him it wouldnt do the same thing. But Ive not 
seen any evidence to show LV gave him those assurances or otherwise led him to believe 
that would be the case.
Im satisfied that LV provided Mr W with adequate notice of the possibility of premium 
increases at renewal  for example, in its acceptance letter of January 2020  and an 
explanation of the factors than can lead to such rises. And if he wasnt happy with the 
renewal premium offered it was open for him to negotiate with LV and/or to look for 
insurance elsewhere. I note, however, that Mr W ultimately chose to accept LVs revised 
offer and renew the policy.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe LV treated Mr W unfairly, either when he first 
bought the policy or at its renewal.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman