DRN-3312514
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 73,000 miles. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free and I think theyd expect quite a bit of 
wear and tear to be present.
Mr C has explained that a fault with the flywheel and clutch was identified and repaired on 
the car at no cost to him. There seems no dispute that this fault was present when the car 
was supplied to him and in those circumstances the business were entitled to carry out a 
repair.
Mr C says that within about five months he also had to have the brakes replaced, a hose 
replaced to stop an oil leak, and a suspension arm repaired. Ive not seen any further 
evidence of those repairs but, even if I had, I think they could only fairly be considered 
issues that were related to wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. I dont think they 
would make the car of unsatisfactory quality. And, even if Im wrong about that, I can see 
there were no advisories highlighted on the MOT completed just before the car was supplied 
to Mr C and I think, if the faults were present or developing at that point they would have 
been highlighted.
Mr C says theres been a drive chain warning on screen since he took receipt of the vehicle. 
Hes provided a photograph to show that was the case and I can see that its date stamped 
from around the time of collection. The independent engineer who Ill call S inspected the 
car in March 2021, about nine months after the car was supplied. He noted that the drive 
chain warning was illuminating then as well. But Im not persuaded there is evidence this 
relates to a fault with the car that made it of unsatisfactory quality. Thats because S went 
on to explain he thought the message was being generated because:
 the ABS (Anti-lock Braking System) sensors picking up on the different wear levels of the 
tyres as this has caused a variation in the circumference of the tyres and triggered the 
drivetrain warning light.
He said that the front tyres had different speed ratings and tread patterns but explained that 
they were still road legal. 
Ive seen nothing that would lead me to dispute those findings. I can see the message is still 
being displayed but, on the evidence provided, it doesnt appear to be representative of a 
fault. It simply suggests the ABS sensors are picking up a variation in circumference of the 
wheels that is generated by acceptable variation in tyre tread patterns.
Mr C says there are problems with the high pressure fuel pump and the turbo charger. Hes 
provided a screen shot of a garage diagnostic report dated 10 October 2020 and a copy of 
the invoice for that work. I dont think these documents provide persuasive evidence, I say 
that because the garage diagnostic report is screenshotted from a word processor and is 
editable, the address is different from the address on the invoice as its misspelt, and the 
company registration number is different too (the invoice appears to be the correct one). So, 
whilst the diagnostic report lists the same error code that the second independent inspection 
identified (high pressure fuel plausibility pressure too low) its not clear when this fault first 
appeared.
Ive thought about when this high pressure error code was likely to have first come about. 
The relevant legislation says that if the fault occurred in the first six months it is to be 
assumed it was present when the car was supplied, and the business were responsible for 
the cars quality. I think its been demonstrated that this wasnt likely to be the case. I say 
that because when S inspected the car in March 2021 there were no fault codes of this 
type recorded and because, for the reasons Ive already given, Im not persuaded by the 
diagnostic report Mr C has provided.
So, I am not persuaded it would be fair to hold Startline responsible for any fault relating to 
the high pressure error code.
The diagnostic report Mr C provided also referred to a problem with a blocked turbo. The 
independent investigations didnt identify any such problem. 
Mr C has suggested that the second inspector who looked at the car in September 2021 had 
noted a problem with the turbocharger, but I dont think that was the case. Hed commented 
that There was also a noticeable rattle from the engine which was traced to the exhaustheatshield being insecure above the turbocharger unit. Thats not an issue that had been 
identified earlier and had nothing to do with any potential turbocharger blockage. 
When S inspected the car nine months into the agreement the engine was noted to be 
running smoothly, its performance was satisfactory and there were no abnormal noises. Im 
not therefore persuaded there is sufficient evidence of a turbo fault that was present or 
developing when the car was supplied.
Mr C has suggested hes had so many faults with the car that it cant have proven to be 
sufficiently durable. Hes right to explain that durability is an issue we need to take into 
account when considering whether goods are of acceptable quality. This car was already 
eight years old and had completed quite a high mileage when Mr C took receipt of it. Even if 
I had evidence of the repairs Mr C says he completed five months into the agreement I dont 
think it would be fair to say the issues reported were unusual on a car of this age and 
mileage. Im not therefore persuaded the car hasnt been durable.
Overall, whilst I can see Mr C is experiencing problems with the car, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to hold Startline responsible for those issues.
Mr C also complained to Startline about problems with the servicing of his car. This service 
cant consider all the complaints that are sent to us. We have to follow the rules provided by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. One of those rules is that we can only consider complaint 
referred to us later than six months from the date of the business final response if the 
business give us permission to do so. Mr C referred his complaint about servicing too late 
and the business refused to give us permission to consider it. I understand that our 
investigator has already explained that position to Mr C and as hes not objected I wont 
comment any further on that aspect of his complaint other than to say I agree with the 
investigators view.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman