DRN-2509403
The complaint
Mr M complains that RCI Bank UK Limited told him his interest rate was fixed before later 
reducing it.
What happened
Mr M opened a RCI account and says he received a letter from it telling him the account 
interest rate was fixed. He says as a result he invested a further amount of money into it but 
later was told the interest rate was to reduce. Mr M estimates he lost about £455 interest and 
would like RCI to either honour the agreement or pay him compensation in line with that 
loss.
RCI says it made a mistake in the letter to Mr M by referring to the interest rate as fixed not 
variable. It says its website; the account opening information and account terms and 
conditions make clear the account interest rate was variable. It also says Mr M appeared to 
acknowledge that when he called it. RCI has offered Mr M £20 as a gesture of goodwill but 
says it will not honour the interest rate or pay compensation for the loss of interest.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the website and account terms and conditions both made clear that the account 
interest rate was variable, and that Mr M appeared to accept that when he called RCI. The 
investigator thought the letter made a mistake and Mr M ought to have questioned the 
discrepancy. The investigator also thought the letter didnt override the account terms and 
conditions.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says RCI should be penalised for its mistake 
and says hes not interested in the terms and conditions as he relied on the letter which he 
says he was entitled to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about 
whats taken place.
Im satisfied that having looked at the RCI account opening process it made clear on a 
number of occasions that the account interest rate was variable. Im also satisfied that 
information was clearly contained within the account terms and conditions and would have 
been available to view when Mr M logged into his account. I dont think there can be any 
question that the account was mis-sold, and I also think it likely Mr M knew the interest rate 
was variable when he opened the account.
There is no question that RCI made a mistake in its letter to Mr M by telling him the interest 
rate was fixed. But I think Mr M ought reasonably to have questioned that and could have 
clarified the correct position, as that information would have been the opposite of what ought 
to have been his understanding of the interest rate. I appreciate Mr M says he ought to be 
entitled to rely on a letter from RCI, but I disagree. And I think it ought to have been clear 
that a mistake could have been made as I think it very unusual that a variable interest rate 
account would suddenly become a fixed rate account.
Im satisfied RCI has fairly apologised for its mistake and paid a fair and reasonable gesture 
of goodwill. I make clear to Mr M that we are not RCIs regulator and so its not our role to 
penalise it for its mistake.
Overall, I accept a mistake was made but I think it ought to have been reasonably clear to Mr 
M that it was a mistake and if there was any doubt, then clarification ought to have been 
sought. For those reasons I cant fairly order RCI to pay the compensation Mr M would like 
or order it to honour the interest rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman