DRN-3560208
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct gave him wrong information
about a transfer he attempted and gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr B opened a savings account with a third party building society. He transferred £1 from his
First Direct account to his third party account to ensure a larger transaction would be
successful. As this payment showed on his third party savings account, he attempted to
transfer a further £15,499 on 27 August 2021, from his First Direct account.
As this didnt show in his third party account in a timely manner, Mr B initially thought that the
funds were taking a little bit longer to transfer as they may be subject to additional checks to
ensure the transaction was genuine. Mr B then received a text message from First Direct,
requesting him to confirm if the transaction was genuine. Mr B responded to the text to
ensure them it was genuine, but the transfer still didnt show in his third party account.
Mr B made a complaint to First Direct on 31 August 2021. He said that his balance was
£15,499 more than it should be as his funds disappeared on 27 August, but they werent
transferred to his new third party account. Mr B had included a response from the third party
building society which he received earlier in the day. The message to Mr B said that their
payments platform had yet to pick up a search matching for a payment of £15,499 being
paid into his account. But with the payment from First Direct, this could only be traced from
the senders (First Direct) end.
First Direct responded to Mr B on 13 September 2021. They said that as part of their
payment checks on the transfer, their fraud team sent him a text message to the mobile
number held on their system to confirm the payment to be genuine. But with their fraud team
not receiving any response, the payment was held until close of business, at that point the
payment followed the process of being returned into his account.
Mr B responded to First Direct to explain that while the matter was unresolved, he wouldnt
transfer the money to his third party account in case First Direct transferred the money as
this would cause him to be significantly overdrawn. This meant he was losing out on interest
on his third party account. Mr B explained the impact this was having on him as the worry
had caused him distress and anxiety. He also said that he had to keep track of the matter
and this inconvenienced him. Mr B told First Direct that he responded to the text from their
fraud team only three minutes later to confirm the transaction was genuine. He instructed
First Direct to not process the original transaction as he may have found a better savings
account.
First Direct responded to Mr B on 24 September 2021. They said that the payment had been
reversed by their fraud team despite Mr B sending them a text to confirm the transaction was
genuine and they apologised for the inconvenience and frustration this caused. First Direct
also apologised for their response to his original complaint not acknowledging the action he
had taken to ensure the payment was released, and they apologised for not confirming what
was happening with the payment in their earlier communication.
First Direct clarified that once their fraud team reverses a payment, they would not attempt to
send the payment again, unless their customer requests this. They explained how Mr B
could make an external payment if he still wished to do so, but they also stated the payment
could still be subject to further checks. First Direct credited £75 to Mr Bs account to
apologise for them not acknowledging they failed to send his payment after he confirmed it
was genuine, their response containing incorrect information, not responding to his message
dated 14 September 2021 in a timely manner and him losing interest owing to the payment
not being released on 27 August 2021.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator felt that the £75 First Direct
credited to Mr Bs account was reasonable for the errors they had made. Mr B asked for an
Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, he said that
he shouldnt have had to discover the problem, investigate the matter, complain to First
Direct, discover what they had done wrong, be told incorrect information by them and
tolerate incorrect information told by them. He also said that he hopes his case can be used
to reduce the moral hazard of banks not suffering the consequences of their actions and
inactions and to prevent consumers having to suffer because of the failures of financial
institutions.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and First Direct and Ive considered and
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
I need to explain to Mr B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and
as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how First Direct have investigated his
complaint, such as how long they take to issue a response to a complaint or how they send
a response doesnt come under my powers to consider.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business
has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the
regulator.
But I can look into whether First Direct treated Mr B fairly with the events that occurred from
when he attempted to make the payment to his third party savings account. Im not
persuaded that they have treated him fairly and Ill explain why.
When Mr B confirmed that the transfer was genuine, the transfer should have completed,
and the funds should have been paid to his third party savings account. But First Direct
made an error and reversed the money back to Mr Bs account on 27 August and Ive seenevidence that the payment was returned on the same day.
Mr B had to contact First Direct to let them know the money hadnt been transferred and to
try and find out why this was when he had confirmed the transaction was genuine, so this
would have given First Direct an opportunity to put things right to help mitigate the impact of
the error.
I say this as when Mr B notified First Direct on 31 August that the transfer hadnt completed,
if they would have looked into this and told Mr B exactly what happened, apologised for it
and offered him appropriate compensation, then Im satisfied that although Mr B would have
been let down by what happened, the impact on him wouldnt be as great as it ended up
being and Ill explain why.
On the surface, it may seem that there was little impact to Mr B as his funds left his account
and were credited back to his account on the same day. But, because he hadnt been
informed of what happened, then Mr B was inconvenienced as he had to contact First Direct
a number of times to investigate what happened.
Mr B has told our service that he didnt want to transfer the funds which had been paid back
to his account as he was worried that First Direct could act upon his text confirming the
transaction was genuine - at a later date, which would result in him being significantly
overdrawn and incurring charges and/or interest.
As First Direct hadnt made it clear to Mr B that they wouldnt attempt the transaction again,
then its understandable why Mr B could be distressed about the transfer and wonder if the
transfer would be processed or not at a later date. And while Mr B told First Direct on 14
September not to transfer the money now, this wouldnt mitigate the impact the error had on
him as he hadnt had a response until 24 September, when they clarified they wouldnt
attempt to make the transfer again after it had been reversed.
But thats not all that would have distressed Mr B. First Direct told him incorrect information
when they responded to him. They said that he hadnt responded to the text the fraud
department sent to him, when Mr B was fully aware that he had responded to them, only
three minutes after the text they had sent him. So although First Direct had a chance to put
things right for Mr B here, they didnt do so and they told him incorrect information.
By giving Mr B incorrect information here, this will have frustrated Mr B and inconvenienced
him further by having to respond to First Direct to explain what he actually did to try and get
the transfer to go through. It was only on 24 September that First Direct clearly explained to
Mr B that he had indeed sent the fraud team a message, that the fraud team reversed the
payment in error and that they wouldnt be trying to make the transfer on his behalf again.
If Mr B would have received this explanation originally, Im satisfied that it would have helped
to mitigate the events which had occurred, but the incorrect information on 13 September
prolonged the distress Mr B had over this issue.
As First Direct could not go back and undo the original error after they had made an error in
returning the money to Mr Bs account as opposed to processing the transfer, then I would
have expected them to apologise to Mr B, realise the impact their errors had on Mr B and
pay him appropriate compensation. First Direct did apologise multiple times in their response
on 24 September and they credited £75 to his account.
So Ive considered whether the £75 recognised the impact of the multiple times they let Mr B
down here. Im not persuaded that it did and Ill explain why. Mr B attempted to make the
transfer on 27 August 2021. But it appears it was only on 24 September 2021 that Mr B wasinformed of what happened and that the fraud team would not re-attempt the transfer. So Im
persuaded that Mr B would have been distressed over this timeframe with what was
happening with his money, especially after he was told incorrect information by First Direct in
their first response to him.
And while First Direct would have been aware that a reversed payment would not be
attempted again, I would not expect Mr B to be aware of this and that is why I can
understand his comments about this issue causing him prolonged anxiety and distress as it
was nearly a month before he had clarity on the situation. So Ive considered what would be
a reasonable amount of compensation for the issues that happened here.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Im persuaded that an extra £175 compensation would be fair, to bring the total amount of
compensation to £250. I say this as First Direct had earlier opportunities to try and put things
right for Mr B, but they told him incorrect information and it was only through Mr Bs
persistence that First Direct were clear to Mr B about what happened to his money, nearly a
month after the original error occurred, but Mr B felt he couldnt move the money in case
First Direct attempted to act upon his original request to move the money as he would be
unaware of First Directs process to not move the money after it had been already reversed.
So it follows I intend to ask First Direct to put things right for Mr B.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. First Direct accepted the provisional decision. Mr B did not accept the provisional 
decision. He made a number of points about First Direct. In summary, he said actions are 
more important than words and First Direct should suffer consequences for not telling the 
truth of what happened and if they wont suffer voluntarily then they must be made to suffer. 
Mr B said that while my provisional decision mentions First Direct apologising, this is not 
true. He said an apology is when someone recognises a wrongdoing and puts right 
everything that has gone wrong as a result of that wrongdoing, paying appropriate 
compensation for having done wrong (which isnt the same as putting right the wrongdoing), 
suffers the appropriate punishment for doing wrong and then they may issue words of an 
apology  usually expressing sorrow for their failings. Any apology before this exasperates 
the wrongdoing. 
He said the wrongdoings by First Direct delayed his search for a new home, caused huge
anxiety, caused him to look for a home in a less expensive area, has wasted many months 
and therefore cost him thousands of pounds in rent at his former home.
Mr B said if our service lacks the power to punish wrongdoers, we should make this clear by 
saying in my decision what we would do if we had the power. He said where we lack the 
power to punish wrongdoers, this does not stop wrongdoers from punishing themselves by 
doing voluntarily what we think they should do but cannot require them to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything that Mr B has sent in response to my provisional decision. He is aware 
that our service does not have the power to make a business suffer. As I mentioned in my provisional decision our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it change 
the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the 
regulator. So Im unable to do this here.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about me saying in my decision what I would do if I had 
the power to do so, as this may make First Direct carry out the actions I would make them do 
if I had the power to do so. But this is not the role of this service. Our service is intended to 
be an alternative to a court. Mr B is still able to take First Direct to court. A court may be able 
to enforce what he is wanting as a resolution to this complaint.
Ive read what Mr B has said about the impact that First Directs actions has had on him 
buying a house and the temporary loss of thousands of pounds off his savings was 
catastrophic. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, the money was reversed back 
into his account on the same day. So I cant hold First Direct responsible for what house Mr 
B chose to buy and in what area, as this would be out of their control.
Ive noted the strength of Mr Bs feelings regarding First Direct apologising, but not really 
apologising based on their actions and apologising when the issue is unresolved. Mr B also 
wanted me to send First Direct a copy of his responses to my provisional decision so they 
cant claim ignorance of their failures and wrongdoings. I can assure Mr B that I will ask our 
investigator to forward his emails to First Direct. 
In summary, Mr Bs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask First Direct to pay Mr B an extra £175 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr B an extra 
£175 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman