DRN-4052430
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim following an escape of water.
What happened
Miss P had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. Following an escape of water from 
an appliance in her kitchen, she claimed under both parts of the policy. The buildings claim 
was settled. However, Miss P was unhappy with the way RSA dealt with her contents claim, 
so she complained.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint, but I wont be asking RSA to do 
any more than our investigator proposed. Ill explain.
On review of Miss Ps complaint, our investigator made the following recommendations:
RSA should replace the affected carpet in Miss Ps home or cash settle in line with 
the policy.
RSA should arrange for its contractors to redecorate the affected areas of Miss Ps 
home.
Check that Miss P hasnt paid her policy excess twice.
Review the damage to Miss Ps bin and dishwasher.
Pay £150 compensation in addition to that already paid, bringing the total amount to 
£550.
Miss P accepted in principle, but she said she had yet to see that RSA was dealing with her 
carpets and redecoration. She was still considering taking the cash settlement option 
because shed lost faith in RSAs contractors, but she remained unhappy with the difference 
between her quotes and RSAs cash settlement offer. Miss P didnt think the proposed £150 
compensation was sufficient given the length of time the claim had been ongoing.
For clarity, our service cant require RSA to complete the proposed actions unless Miss P 
accepts the resolution. So, at this point, I wouldnt necessarily expect RSA to have done any 
more regarding the carpets and redecoration. As Miss P accepts this in principle, I wont 
comment further on this point.
Cash settlement
I understand Miss P is still considering the cash settlement option, but she remains unhappy 
with the amount.
The terms of the policy are as follows:
How we settle claims for Contents, Personal Possessions and Garden Options Where the 
damage can be economically repaired, we will pay the cost of repair. Where the damage 
cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be replaced, we will 
replace it. If a replacement is not available we will replace it with an item of similar quality. 
Where we are unable economically to repair or to replace an item with an item of similar 
quality, we will agree a cash payment with you based on the replacement value. Where 
we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead you request 
and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not normally exceed what 
we would have paid our preferred supplier.
Based on the policy wording, Im satisfied that RSA was entitled to offer a cash settlement 
equal to what it wouldve cost to do the work using its own suppliers. 
I accept that RSA didnt handle this part of Miss Ps claim well. It asked her to get quotes for 
the work, which she did. Then it arranged to review the scope of works using its own 
contractor. But the mistake RSA made here doesnt mean that the policy terms dont apply. I 
can understand that Miss P wouldve been inconvenienced by this sequence of events, 
particularly as it caused avoidable delays. But this is what the compensation is to address. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that if Miss P prefers to accept the cash settlement, RSA need only 
pay what it wouldve cost using its own contractors.
Compensation
Miss P doesnt think £150 is sufficient given the delays and mistakes made.
RSA has already offered Miss P £400 in recognition of the inconvenience and distress 
caused by the avoidable delays and mistakes made. On considering the evidence, I note 
that RSA wasnt responsible for all delays. Although the claim was ongoing for almost two 
years, I can see that some of the delays were due to requests Miss P made or waiting for 
her decision on matters about her claim. Theres nothing wrong with Miss P taking this time, 
but I cant expect RSA to pay further compensation for delays which were outside of its 
control. Therefore, Ive not taken any of those unavoidable delays into consideration when 
deciding on the compensation.
Having thought carefully about the compensation, Im satisfied that £150, in addition to the 
£400 RSA already offered, is fair and reasonable for the avoidable delays and mistakes 
made during the process of assessing repair costs.
As Miss P and RSA accepted the proposals regarding the policy excess, the bin and the 
dishwasher, I wont go into detail about those matters here.
Overall, the evidence confirms that RSA fell short of the standard Miss P could reasonably 
have expected when she made her claim for damaged contents under her policy. RSA has 
gone some way to resolving matters, but its my view that further action is needed. In light of 
the evidence, Im satisfied that the recommendations our investigator made are fair and 
reasonable and RSA should settle Miss Ps claim as set out below.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
replace the affected carpet in Miss Ps home or cash settle in line with the policy;
arrange for its contractors to redecorate the affected areas of Miss Ps home;
check that Miss P hasnt paid her policy excess twice;
review the damage to Miss Ps bin and dishwasher, and
pay £150 compensation in addition to that already paid, bringing the total amount to 
£550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman