DRN-3632624
Complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against her.
Background
In March 2021, Miss S account received a payment of £1,237.40 into it. The funds were 
immediately transferred to other accounts in two payments of £600 and £638. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from another of its customers, responsible for 
sending the payment to Miss S account, stating that theyd been a victim of fraud. As a 
result of this notification, Barclays reviewed Miss S account and its investigation led it to 
decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Miss S subsequently complained. Barclays looked at Miss S complaint and didnt uphold it. 
As Miss S remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss S concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss S was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss S account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss S 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss S was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss S has said she was on holiday abroad when one of her friends, in the United Kingdom 
(U.K.), whom she knew from university, got in contact to say that they were having trouble 
setting up a payee on their account and asked if she could instead make the transfer. She 
said she was told to transfer £600 of the funds which came in and wait for further instructions 
on what to do with the remainder. 
As further instructions were never provided, Miss S transferred the remaining funds to 
another of her accounts to avoid them being used up as a result of her direct debit 
payments. Miss S says she had no knowledge her friend would be arranging for fraudulent 
funds to enter her account.
Ive thought about what Miss S has said. But Im afraid that Im not persuaded by her version 
of events. Like our adjudicator, I find it incredibly strange that Miss S friend would approach 
her for hep to make an urgent payment when she was outside of the U.K at the time. This is 
especially the case as it surely would have been far easier to arrange for the transfer to go 
directly to the intended recipient who the friend couldnt set up as a payee, rather than 
involving Miss S when she was out of the country.
Furthermore, its unclear why Miss S friend would have paid her £600 for a favour, rather 
than arranging for just the amount of the funds to go to her account and the remainder to go 
directly to their own account. I would suggest that Miss S ought to have questioned why her 
friend didnt want any of the funds to go to their account, if the funds were legitimate.
Miss S suggestion that her friend took advantage of her financial difficulty suggests that it 
was always the intention for her to have use of a percentage of the fraudulent funds. Finally, 
I dont see how the funds would have been used up by Miss S direct debits, if theyd 
remained where they were, given just how few direct debits there were going out of her 
account in the first place.  
 
Having considered everything, Im afraid that the available evidence simply doesnt support 
Miss S having been an unwitting participant in the fraudulent activity which took place. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not that Miss S was complicit in her account receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss S was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss S  especially in light of the ongoing 
impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Miss S might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman