DRN-3202124
The complaint
Mr K complained there were delays with his claim under his home insurance policy with 
Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich). 
What happened
Mr K made a claim to Zurich in November 2020 when a burst water pipe caused damage to 
his property. Mr K complained to Zurich as he was unhappy with the progress of his claim as 
he felt the claim was unresolved after nearly seven months. He thought hed been treated 
unfairly compared to other customers.
Mr K said his family suffered as a result, as the damage left them living in conditions that 
werent acceptable. Mr K said his home has been colder than normal, which impacted one 
member of his family who had a medical condition. He said the heating had to be left turned 
on constantly. Mr K said the family hasnt been able to use the living room and kitchen 
properly.
Zurich agreed that it was slow in reviewing the estimates provided by Mr K for him to use his 
own contractors and offered £150 for the inconvenience. However, Zurich didnt think it was 
responsible or at fault for most of the period where Mr K thought there was unnecessary 
delay. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the £150 offered by Zurich 
was fair compensation for the slow turnaround in reviewing Mr Ks estimates. And after 
reviewing the timeline of the claim, she didnt think Zurich had caused any avoidable delays 
or treated Mr K differently to any other customer. Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Using the information provided by Mr K and Zurich I have examined what happened during 
this claim to understand if I think Zurich has caused unnecessary delay in the claim or for 
evidence that Mr K or his family have been treated unfairly in any way. Zurich has accepted 
responsibility for a small part of the delay. I will consider whether I think the compensation 
offered by Zurich is fair for this and I will consider whether I think it has been reasonable in 
concluding it didnt cause any other delays.
The claim was made in early November 2020 and Zurich came to inspect the property at the 
end of December 2020 once it was informed by Mr K the burst water pipe which caused the 
damage had been fixed. Its Zurichs responsibility to put right the damage caused by the 
burst water pipe (the insured peril), its not Zurichs responsibility to fix the cause of the 
damage (the leak). Therefore, as Zurich acted within a reasonable timeframe to inspect the 
property once it knew the water pipe was repaired, I think Zurich has been fair in saying this 
delay wasnt caused by it.
In January 2021, I have observed there was work carried out by Zurich in the background to 
validate costs after the survey and inspection took place in the previous month. I can also 
see there is evidence that Zurich had to chase the storage company before some of Mr Ks 
contents were taken into storage, allowing Zurich to start the rectification of the damage. The 
strip out of the damaged area and then the drying of the property occurred around late 
January 2021 / early February 2021. I think the time that lapsed here from the inspection / 
scoping of the works to the commencement of the strip out / drying is not unreasonable, so I 
dont think Zurich has done anything wrong here.
I can see the next period of the claim became more complicated once the property had been 
professionally dried out. Zurichs contractor had an issue with the conditions at the property 
that they were being asked to work in. The evidence shows there were also some delays as 
Mr K wanted some additional works and these werent covered by the policy. The contractor 
decided he didnt want to do the works. Responsibility for arranging these works was 
Zurichs, so I need to consider if its actions were reasonable.
Zurich at this point decided to provide Mr K with an option to cash settle the claim or to 
pursue a different contractor to do the works. Following Mr Ks direction, Zurich approached 
another contractor, but they too didnt want to do the works. I have tried to understand why 
the contractors wouldnt do the works and it seems the reasons provided by both contractors 
were consistent, so I find the reasoning provided reliable and persuasive. Both contractors 
were concerned by the scope of the works and possible cross over  some covered by the 
insurer and some additional private works. I dont find this unusual. Its generally the case a 
policyholder tends to choose their own contractor where any additional private work is 
required. 
However, I see Mr K reduced the scope down to just insured work. But even then the 
contractors thought the area where the work had to be carried out was unacceptably dirty, 
due to a build-up of grease likely from cooking. Whilst I know this wouldve been extremely 
frustrating for Mr K, I dont think this delay was caused by Zurich. Zurichs responsibility is to 
rectify the damage from the insured loss, so given the reason the contractors cited (the 
unacceptable conditions) were present before the insured event, I dont think its fair to hold 
Zurich accountable for this issue. Zurich offered a cash settlement again. I think the offer of 
the cash settlement does show Zurich has made efforts to expedite the claim, so Mr K had 
the choice to proceed himself if he felt he could find a contractor more promptly. So, I think 
Zurich acted reasonably in the circumstances to try and get the claim resolved for Mr K.
Due to the limited options, Mr K decided to get his own estimates for the work and passed 
these to Zurich for approval. Zurich accepted it took too long to review these estimates and 
provided £150 in compensation. At the time of Zurichs final response, a month had lapsed, 
and this part of the process was ongoing. I agree this shouldve been dealt with earlier and 
Zurich shouldve responded sooner, but I do think it has compensated Mr K fairly for the 
inconvenience up to that point, so I wont ask Zurich to do any more. If there were further 
delays after this point, Mr K is entitled to raise a new complaint. From the evidence I have 
seen, I think Zurich has treated Mr K fairly during this claim. I havent seen anything to 
suggest it treated him differently to any other customer. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Zurich Insurance plc to do 
anymore. Zurich should still pay the £150 compensation it offered if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman