DRN-3189499
The complaint
Mr T complained that the content of an email sent to him HSBC UK Bank Plc left him
confused about when hed be charged for overdraft lending. Mr T said that when he asked
for clarification of this, he waited several months for a reply, and that didnt help.
What happened
Mr T said that HSBC emailed him in December 2019 about changes in its overdraft policies.
He said he couldnt tell from this email whether he was going to be charged if his overdraft
went over £10, or only if it went over £25. Mr T quoted parts of this email, and said it was
confusing and contradictory. He said he got in touch with HSBC by secure message,
because it was asking people not to talk to it on the phone unless things were urgent, but
when HSBC eventually replied to that, it didnt clarify what he needed to know.
Mr T wanted HSBC to pay him compensation.
HSBC said it didnt think its communications were unclear. And it said that Mr T hadnt paid
any fees for having gone overdrawn in the last six years. It said that Mr T had no arranged
overdraft facility, so there was no interest free buffer on his account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr T had drawn
attention to three separate areas of the email he received. Hed quoted from the following
specific sections of the email he received 
- Page 3  Youll only be charged interest on the amount you borrow over the 
interest
free amount. So if you use £25 or less of your arranged overdraft, no charges will
apply.
- Page 4  Right now, we dont charge daily unarranged overdraft usage fees where
you have an unarranged overdraft if - the unarranged overdraft is £10 or less
- Page 4  In future, well charge unarranged overdraft interest at the rates set out in
this email even where these circumstances apply.
Our investigator said that it was important to note that the sections Mr T quoted from came
from two different sections of the document. The interest free overdraft of £25 only applied to
an arranged overdraft. Mr T didnt have an arranged overdraft, so this didnt apply to him.
The further sections were from the part of the email which was headed When we charge for
using an unarranged overdraft. Our investigator clarified that this was the section which
applied to Mr T. So hed been told that daily fees, charged at £5 per day, werent being
charged if he was less than £10 overdrawn. But in future, this would change. Daily fees were
being withdrawn. However, interest would be charged on any unarranged overdraft, even if
the amount was £10 or less, unless the overdrawn amount is repaid before 11:45pm on the
same day. Our investigator said that HSBC also included a table which explained this.
Our investigator said Mr T had quoted from parts of the email which applied to arranged and
unarranged overdrafts. But she said it was clear that the sections Mr T had drawn attention
to were intended to be read independently of each other. Our investigator said she didnt
think the wording of the HSBC document email was unclear or misleading.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that communications from businesses must be clear, transparent
and most importantly tailored to each individual customer. But HSBC had sent him an email
which covered both arranged and unarranged overdrafts. Mr T didnt think HSBC should
have sent him information on arranged overdrafts, if that didnt apply to him.
Mr T also said that by starting its email with "Were making changes to the way we charge
you for using your overdraft to comply with new rules that apply to all banks." HSBC had
implied he had an overdraft facility on his account. Mr T said that was misleading.
Mr T suggested changes to the text which he said would have made it clearer. And he said
when he contacted HSBC it didnt explain things to him. He still thought HSBC should pay
compensation.
But our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that this was a standard mailing sent
out to all HSBC's customers. She didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to have
sent this generic mailing out to all customers, whether they have held an overdraft or not. It
provided information on overdrafts to those customers who have them, those who may go
overdrawn unexpectedly as well as those who might apply for overdrafts in the near future.
Our investigator still thought that the email was clear, when read as a whole, and she
thought Mr T could easily have confirmed whether he had an arranged overdraft or not. She
said shed suggested Mr T contact HSBC to check whether the rules HSBC had emailed
about were still in force, because they were sent in late 2019.
Mr T said this email addressed him as you so he believed the information contained within
the e-mail was relevant to him. And he said that he found it confusing, because HSBC said it
was introducing interest free overdraft amounts of £25 on some accounts, including the one
he held. So he had understood from this that he could go overdrawn by up to £25 without
paying any interest. And discussions of a buffer of £10 were contradictory about whether he
would be charged interest or not.
Mr T repeated that HSBCs reply had not clarified any of this. So he considered it fair and
reasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to provide a payment of compensation of £50.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
HSBCs email covered changes to both arranged and unarranged overdrafts. I know 
that Mr T doesnt have an arranged overdraft  and I would expect Mr T also to have 
been aware of this. So he says that part of the email wasnt relevant to him, and 
shouldnt have been sent to him. But I dont think that its inappropriate for HSBC to 
tell Mr T about the different ways that it treats lending by those with arranged 
overdrafts and those with unarranged overdrafts.
HSBCs email appears to me to have been designed to tell its customers about 
overdraft changes briefly. I think its always possible to say that emails like this could 
be clearer. But that would also make them substantially longer. HSBC has to strike a balance between making things clear, and not making emails like this so long, that no 
one reads them.
I dont think that HSBC got this wrong here.
Although the email was brief, I dont think it was confusing. Mr T said that he saw the 
section which said £25 of interest free overdraft was being added to the account type 
he held, and he said he thought that would apply to him. But this section continues 
with So if you use £25 or less of your arranged overdraft, no charges will apply. 
[emphasis added].
I think that makes clear that this £25 of interest free lending is part of an arranged 
overdraft. Mr T doesnt have that.
And the section on unarranged overdrafts is also, I think, clear. Mr T was being told 
that in circumstances where he wasnt currently charged a fee (including very modest 
lending of £10 or less, or where the unarranged overdraft has been caused by an 
overdraft charge or interest charged) he will have to pay interest in future. I also think 
this is clear.
I note that this email also signposted HSBCs own web page about overdrafts for 
customers who wanted further information, so I think that there was also a source of 
further advice for Mr T, if he didnt want to wait to speak to someone on the phone.
Mr T also said he had waited a very considerable time for HSBC to respond to his 
query, and he didnt think that it helped when it did respond. HSBC has shown us 
that Mr T appears to have complained in January 2021, and it responded to that 
complaint in the same month.
Although Mr T did start his complaint by setting out that he was confused by the 
email that hed received from HSBC, the question Mr T asked, when he made his 
complaint, was Please could you therefore clarify the position with regards to 
interest being applied if you use an unarranged overdraft of £10 or less?
So I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to focus on that particular lending, of 
£10 or less, in its reply. Its reply seems to me to explain what had been happening 
for lending of £10 or less through an unarranged overdraft over the last year. I 
understand that HSBC has, in fact, waived interest charges for unarranged overdrafts 
over a large portion of 2020. It then reinstated interest charges in August 2020. And 
thats what it told Mr T.
I do think that HSBC has provided a response to the question Mr T actually asked, 
and I dont think that HSBC was being unhelpful or unreasonable when it said this.
I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it had nothing to add. Mr T didnt reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman