DRN-3821509
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected her claim for consequential loss 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs B used her Tesco credit card to pay £302 for two made to measure 
blinds from a retailer. Mrs B was unhappy with the quality of the blinds, she also purchased 
some fabric from the retailer, which was the wrong size.
Mrs Bs complaint centres on the purchase of the two blinds, she says they had the following 
issues;
the blinds couldnt be washed or dry cleaned
the rods were not capped and dangerously protruded out of the pockets
the fabric holes caused by the stitching of the string clips were visible
the lining seams and front seams didnt align
the blinds looked shabby and poorly made 
Mrs B returned the blinds to the retailer in April 2022. She provided the retailer with her bank 
details for it to refund the cost of the fabric, but it also refunded the cost of the two blinds. 
Mrs B asked Tesco to consider a Section 75 claim for her consequential loss in relation to 
the faulty blinds, for the additional expense of getting the blinds re-made and the cost of 
redecorating the room. 
Tesco rejected Mrs Bs claim under section 75, it said the retailer had already refunded the 
blinds, so any breach of contract was remedied and there could be no valid claim for 
consequential loss. Mrs B complained to Tesco, she didnt think it was fair, because the 
retailer refunded the cost of the blinds against her wishes. In addition, she was unhappy that 
Tesco had requested the same information on more than one occasion and with the length 
of time taken to deal with her claim.
Tesco reviewed Mrs Bs complaint and agreed it asked for irrelevant information and could 
have responded sooner, it paid £50 compensation to reflect this. But it didnt think it had 
reached the wrong outcome on Mrs Bs consequential loss claim.
Unhappy with the response, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was enough evidence to 
confirm the blinds werent of satisfactory quality, she asked Mrs B to provide images of the 
problems with the blinds for further consideration. 
 
Mrs B disagreed, she said she had already provided us with images that showed the blinds 
were faulty. She asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. We asked Mrs B to 
provide any further evidence for consideration by 12 December 2022. Mrs B didnt provide 
us with any further evidence, so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75. I 
would usually expect the card provider to consider both, but here the retailer had already 
refunded the transaction and chargebacks are capped at the amount paid on the card, so 
would not cover any consequential loss. So, I dont think Tesco made a mistake when it 
didnt raise a chargeback on Mrs Bs behalf.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. It also allows the claimant to equally hold the provider of 
credit liable for consequential loss that directly results from the breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
Im not deciding Tescos liability under section 75. We certainly take into account the 
relevant law, which includes section 75. But we decide cases by considering what is fair and 
reasonable, in the circumstances. So, what Ill be deciding here, is whether I think Tesco 
handled Mrs Bs claim fairly or not.
I think it is important to clarify that any section 75 claim against Tesco would be limited to 
consequential loss from any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer in relation 
to the agreement to supply the blinds. That is the extent of the liability, which is important 
here because Mrs B has mentioned how unhappy she is with the retailers action of 
refunding the transaction against her wishes and the retailer breaching the Data Protection 
Act 2018. For clarification, I cant consider these matters against Tesco.
Tesco says Mrs B doesnt have a valid claim for consequential loss under section 75 
because she has already received a refund. And whilst Ive not seen anything preventing 
Tesco from considering consequential loss where a transaction has been refunded, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Tesco to reject Mrs Bs claim for consequential loss, and Ill 
explain why below. 
To be able to uphold Mrs Bs section 75 complaint about consequential loss, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) its an implied term that the blinds supplied to Mrs B 
needed to be of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs B has listed a number of issues with the blinds and says the blinds looked shabby and 
poorly made once they were fitted. However, to find Tesco liable for any consequential loss, 
I must be satisfied the blinds were faulty at the point of supply. I accept the retailer refunded 
Mrs B for the blinds, but I cant see where it agreed the blinds were faulty. The blinds are no 
longer in Mrs Bs possession, and whilst Mrs B says she sent us images of the blinds, we 
only have images of the holes in her walls on file. We let Mrs B know we didnt have any 
images to confirm the issues with the blinds and asked her to provide further evidence by 12 
December 2022. We didnt receive any further images or evidence to show the blinds were 
faulty. 
Whilst I appreciate the seams didnt align the way Mrs B wanted, the stitching holes were 
visible, and the rods didnt have caps, I havent seen anything to confirm these were faults, 
and not design features. Mrs B says the uncapped rods made the blinds unsafe, but some 
blinds are supplied with cap ends, whilst others arent, and I havent seen anything to 
confirm the blinds were unsafe. Mrs B told us she didnt accept the retailers offer to remake 
the blinds because it said it couldnt change the issues shed highlighted. And I think this also indicates the issues highlighted by Mrs B might be features of the blind design, rather 
than faults. So, Im not satisfied the issues Mrs B raised amount to a breach of contract. 
Im sorry Mrs B was disappointed with the blinds she purchased, however Im not persuaded 
that there is sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation here, so in the 
circumstances, I dont think Tescos decision to reject her section 75 claim for consequential 
loss was unreasonable.
Even if I were to accept there had been a breach of contract by the supplier- and the blinds 
were not of satisfactory quality, Im not persuaded Mrs Bs claim for consequential loss is 
either reasonable or proportionate. Mrs B says that damage was caused to her walls and 
ceiling by fitting the blinds. She wants Tesco to pay for the entire lounge to be redecorated 
and has provided redecoration quotes ranging between £780 to £1050.
From the images provided I can see there are small holes (with plugs), in the walls 
surrounding the windows, where the blinds were fitted. I appreciate Mrs B says the holes 
cant be put right by filling them and blending the paintwork, but from the images Ive seen 
Im not persuaded thats the case. 
Mrs B had a family member (a professional blind fitter) install the blinds. And I dont think it 
would be unreasonable to expect a professional fitter to have examined the blinds and 
identified any issues, before going on to install them. So, I dont think it would be fair to say 
this loss is a direct result of the issues with the blinds.
Mrs B has also asked Tesco to pay the difference between the cost of the blinds and the 
cost of getting blinds made from a different retailer. Mrs B says the cost of getting the blinds 
has increased due to the amount of time taken to resolve this, she doesnt think its fair for 
her to bear this additional cost. However, there is an obligation on a party to mitigate their 
loss, and it was Mrs Bs choice not to replace the blinds until the matter had been resolved to 
her satisfaction. In addition, I cant say with certainty that the more expensive blinds are of a 
similar make to the original ones, and I dont think it would be fair for Tesco to pay the 
additional cost for Mrs B to get a better brand of blinds.
Tesco accepts it incorrectly made requests for information it already had and apologised for 
the delay in handling Mrs Bs section 75 claim. It compensated Mrs B £50 to reflect this, in 
the circumstances I think this if fair. So, I wont be asking Tesco to do anything else in 
respect of this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman