DRN-3261766
The complaint
Mr P complains about how long HSBC UK Bank Plc took to refund a payment to his account.
What happened
Mr P says he was refunded £86 which was credited to an old account card in September 
2021. He says he asked HSBC to find the money and credit it to his up to date account card, 
but it has not. Mr P says he would like his money and compensation for what took place. He 
says he would like £200 compensation and says he has asked HSBC on numerous 
occasions to sort out the problem.
HSBC says it made an error dealing with the refund and has apologised. It says that Mr P 
had five account cards in the previous 10 months and that contributed to the problem. HSBC 
says it credited Mr Ps account in November 2021 and paid £75 compensation for what took 
place.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the compensation 
award appropriate for what was about a two-month delay.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says HSBCs actions impacted his health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount for the reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by 
my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake in taking too long to credit Mr Ps 
account with the refund. I have no doubt Mr P was caused inconvenience and frustration by 
the delay and I accept he would have spent some time trying to find out what the delay was. 
But I can see that HSBC has fairly apologised for the delay and explained that part of that 
delay was caused by the amount of account cards Mr P had in the previous months and by 
the fraud blocks applied to those other cards. I dont think that explains why it took two 
months to sort out, but I accept it would have caused some delays.
The key issue is the compensation award. Im satisfied Mr P didnt suffer any financial loss 
as the refund was paid into his account. I dont think there would have been a significant 
impact on Mr P as a result of the delay and consider the refund amount relatively moderate. 
So, Im satisfied that compensation offer is fair and reasonable and that it was made with an 
appropriate apology. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC increase its compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman