DRN-3255415
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)
when he made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
In this decision, references to Aviva includes its agents, claim handlers and contractors.
What happened
Mr S contacted Aviva on 27 October 2020 to report a very noisy hammering sound from
pipework in his house. He was concerned that this might be causing stress to the pipework
and joints that might lead to a leak.
An engineer attended on the same day. He told Mr S that the cause of the problem was from
his combi boiler. He recharged the boilers expansion vessel and made some adjustments.
Mr S says that the hammering noise returned a few hours after the engineer had left.
A second engineer attended on 30 October 2020. Mr S says this engineer didnt check the
boiler or inspect the work of the first engineer. His opinion was that the cause of the
hammering noise lay with a leaking tap in the downstairs cloakroom, but Mr S disputed this. 
He explained to the engineer that the tap was wet because it was in continuous use 
throughout the day.
The engineer recorded that he thought that the problem was a tap washer in a bathroom
upstairs although Mr S says the engineer didnt go upstairs to examine the tap. Taps arent
covered by Mr Ss policy other than kitchen taps that are not providing water so Aviva
rejected Mr Ss claim.
After the second engineers visit, Mr S called Aviva to query the job hed done. He was
advised that he needed to change the washers in his taps but Mr S thought he should be
covered by his policy for this. He asked to speak to a manager. Avivas records show that a
number of attempts were then made to contact Mr S, and it was noted that taps and washers
were not an emergency under his home emergency policy.
Mr S contacted Aviva again on 1 December 2020. As the two engineers hadnt agreed about
the cause of the hammering noise, Mr S said he wanted a senior engineer to provide
another opinion. He was told that if it was due to a tap, he wouldnt be covered. An
appointment was arranged for up to 6:00pm later that day. Mr S says he waited at home for
an engineer, but he didnt arrive.
Mr S called Aviva the next day and was told that the visit had been refused because the
cause of the problem had already been diagnosed. Aviva advised him that he could get his
own engineer to assess the problem and if it differed from the diagnosis from Avivas
engineer, it would consider the report with a view to reimbursing him if the cause was
covered by his policy.
Mr S raised a complaint as he wasnt happy with the second engineers diagnosis and Aviva
had failed to resolve the issue. Mr S was concerned that without a proper diagnosis it wasnt
possible to decide whether the problem was on covered by his policy.
Aviva issued its response to Mr Ss complaint on 8 January 2021. It accepted that it had
failed to attend on 1 December and apologised for the frustration caused. It informed Mr S
that the diagnosis was that the problem was caused by a tap in the upstairs bathroom, and
that taps causing a hammering noise are usually as a result of worn washers on the taps,
and this isnt covered by his policy. After Mr S called on 2 December to complain about the
failure of an engineer to attend on 1 December, he was told he could have his own engineer
assess the issue and it would reopen his complaint and assess any report he provided.
Mr S says the hammering noise has now stopped and stopped some time ago. This wasnt
because of any repairs to any taps which have continued to be in use. Mr S therefore says
this proves that the second engineers assumption that this was the cause of the hammering
was wrong.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Avivas response to his complaint and other concerns, so he
brought them to this service. Our investigators view was that it wasnt unreasonable for
Aviva to have relied on its engineers opinion, and that here was no evidence to suggest that
this was wrong. Mr Ss policy doesnt cover taps. He didnt consider it was unfair for Aviva to
advise Mr S that he should employ his own engineer if he wanted another opinion, and to
reimburse him the cost of this if his report suggested anything different which should have
been covered by the policy.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He wants Aviva to admit its failings, apologise, and
award compensation for the failure of its home emergency service to put matters right, and
for emotional stress and inconvenience. He asked that an ombudsman consider his
complaint for a final view from this service.
I issued a provisional decision which upheld Mr Ss complaint in one respect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since issuing my provisional decision about Mr Ss complaint Ive received further comments 
from Mr S which Ive taken into consideration.
Im continuing to uphold Mr Ss complaint in one respect only and Ill explain why.
Mr S clearly has strongly held views about the way that Aviva has dealt with his claim. In
particular, he has concerns about the recording and reporting processes within Aviva, and
that the records made by the two engineers who attended were not contemporaneous and
were unclear and unreliable. Mr S believes them to be fabricated and untrue.
This service isnt able to tell a business how it should run its internal processes, and as our
investigator has correctly pointed out in his view, its outside the jurisdiction of this service to
deal with complaints about complaints procedures. So I cant address the various concerns
that Mr S raises about Avivas internal procedures and processes including how engineers
reports are produced and recorded.
Im therefore confining my decision to whether Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in
rejecting Mr Ss claim for noisy pipework.
Mr S was concerned that there had been two diagnoses by two separate engineers. The firsthad proved to be incorrect as the noise returned shortly after the first engineer left. The 
second diagnosis was that the problem lay with an upstairs tap. This appears also to have 
been an incorrect diagnosis as Mr S has reported that the noise has stopped but without any 
work being done on the taps that were thought to be causing the noise.
Ive considered whether, given that second diagnosis, Aviva acted unfairly in rejecting Mr Ss
claim. I think Aviva correctly identified that the policy doesnt provide cover for taps other 
than kitchen taps that are not providing water. Ive taken account of what Mr S has 
emphasised about the second engineer not going upstairs to check on the tap he thought 
might be responsible for the noise, and I can understand why he is sceptical about the 
accuracy of the diagnosis made. But Aviva has explained in its final response to Mr S that 
water hammering is usually as a result of worn washers on taps. So the diagnosis made by 
Avivas second engineer could well have been a reasonable assumption to make without an 
inspection.
I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for Aviva to rely on the views of its engineers
unless there is evidence supporting a contrary view. Aviva advised Mr S that it would
consider any evidence that Mr S wished to obtain that mightve suggested some other cause
for the noise and would reimburse him if another cause was identified that was covered by
his policy. But given the information it had from its engineer, I dont think that Aviva acted
unreasonably in declining Mr Ss claim at that point.
Two different diagnoses had been made as to the cause of the noise Mr S was experiencing.
So Ive also considered whether a third, and different, diagnosis mightve enabled a repair to
be undertaken under his policy.
Having reviewed the policy terms, it seems clear, in paragraph (f) under the heading What 
is not covered that smells and noises from pipework or drains are excluded. I would also 
express my view that a complaint about noisy pipes is not an emergency as defined in the 
policy and so would not be covered.
In my view, a third diagnosis wouldnt have made any difference given that Mr Ss policy
excludes claims for noisy pipework. I can appreciate that Mr S was concerned about the 
possibility that the pipework might burst and cause water damage, but unless that happened, 
all that was being complained about was noisy pipework. I therefore cant say that Avivas 
decision not to send a third engineer to investigate further was unreasonable.  
My conclusion therefore is that Avivas decision to reject Mr Ss claim has not been made
unfairly or unreasonably. It was made in accordance with the terms of Mr Ss policy. In these
circumstances, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything to put things right.
However, I do consider that Aviva acted unfairly in not informing Mr S that the appointment
made for 1 December, when he was expecting a third, and impartial, engineer to attend for 
another view on the cause of the noisy pipes, had been cancelled.
Mr S wasnt told that this visit had been cancelled so hed waited at home for it. It would
have been courteous if Aviva had told Mr S in advance that the planned visit was not going
to take place and why, or not to have arranged such a visit in the first place. I think the
resulting inconvenience and upset to Mr S merits compensation of £50. This is the level of
compensation generally awarded in such circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman