DRN-1588664
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Ms H. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. Ms H 
was sold the policy in a store, at the same time she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ms H says she wasnt aware shed been sold PPI at the time.
The credit agreement Ms H filled in and signed in the store has an option to select PPI. And I 
can see that she selected this option by signing in the place provided. I can also see that 
there was another option on the form for card protection. This option wasnt selected. 
So, having carefully considered all the information available to me, I think its more likely 
than not that Ms H was aware at the time that PPI was optional and that she actively decided 
to take it. But this sale happened a long time ago and memories of such meetings do tend to 
fade over time. So I can understand why Ms H might not be able to recall this now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Ms H. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its likely that AXA could have 
given Ms H better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better information 
would have changed her mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
 
Ms H appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Ms H says she didnt need the PPI cover. She says she was eligible for sick pay and 
also had some savings she could have used to make her repayments if she couldnt work. But this policy would have paid out in addition to her other means. It would 
have protected her payments for up to twelve months if she wasnt able to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think she would still have 
valued the extra security which the policy gave her.
 
I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Ms H. And as 
she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer 
met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Ms H has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman