DRN-3057434
The complaint
Mr H and Miss R complain that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) lent to them 
irresponsibly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H and Miss R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H and Miss R acquired their car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
Having carefully considered everything provided, I dont think there is sufficient evidence that 
the checks Moneybarn did were insufficient or that Mr H and Miss R were in no position to 
sustainably repay the loan Moneybarn provided.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether Moneybarn carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been given about Mr H and Miss Rs financial 
circumstances.
Moneybarn have explained that they reviewed Mr H and Miss Rs credit file, validated salary 
information and completed an affordability assessment. They therefore considered Mr H and 
Miss Rs income and expenditure and their credit performance. They would have noted from 
that information that there were some historic defaults, but I dont think that would have been 
sufficient, on its own, to suggest the loan was unaffordable. I think the checks Moneybarn 
conducted seem reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
But even if it wasnt I dont think I have enough information to conclude if Moneybarns 
assessment had been even more detailed they would have discovered that Mr H and Miss R 
were unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the money provided. I say that because Mr H 
and Miss R havent provided any bank statements for me to consider and Im therefore 
unable to properly review the financial circumstances prevailing at the time.
So, I dont think theres evidence Moneybarn lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman