DRN-4284593
The complaint
Mr J and Miss O complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed their joint account.
What happened
Mr J and Miss O had a number of accounts with Santander. These included a business 
account, personal accounts, and joint accounts.
I am aware that Mr J and Miss O have raised complaints with this service regarding all of the 
accounts they held with Santander. This decision will focus on Mr Js and Miss Os complaint 
regarding their joint personal account (ending 7146). However, I have included a summary of 
events relating to Mr Js and Miss Os business accounts as they are relevant to this 
complaint.
In February 2022, Santander decided to review Mr J and Miss Os business account as part 
of its Know Your Business (KYB) process. Santander wrote to Mr J via email on 17 February 
2022, asking him to provide specific information about his business, including invoices 
relating to specific payments, the business model and source of stock. 
Believing this to be a scam, Mr J didnt respond to this request. So, on 5 April 2022, 
Santander called Mr J. During the call Santander referenced the email and explained that it 
still needed Mr J to provide the information. And set out why it needed the information it had 
requested. The advisor warned Mr J that if he didnt provide the information the bank may 
restrict all his accounts and close them.
Mr J told the advisor that he hadnt responded to the banks information request because he 
wasnt very good using computers so wasnt able to upload the information the bank had 
asked for via its online portal. He said he was very busy and if the bank needed the 
information, theyd have to visit him at his home to get it or contact his accountant. 
As an alternative, Santander said Mr J could take the information into a branch. But Mr J 
said he was far too busy to do this. During the call, Mr J became uncomfortable that he 
wasnt speaking to a genuine member of Santander staff, as he heard a dog bark in the 
background, he felt the call was a scam. So, he said he wasnt happy to provide any further 
information to the questions he was being asked by the advisor. Prior to ending the call, the 
advisor gave Mr J a contact number, which could be found and verified on the banks 
website, that he could call to check that everything was above board. 
Santander didnt get the information it had requested, so on 26 May 2022, it sent Mr J a 
chaser email asking him to provide the information it needed to complete its KYB process. In 
response to the email, on 27 May 2022, Mr J rang Santander and said if the bank needed 
the information it would have to visit him at his home to get it. Santander said it would look 
into if there were any other ways for Mr J to provide the information. On 6 June 2022, the 
bank called Mr J and left him a voicemail to let him know that the only alternative as for him 
to take the information into a branch. However, Mr J didnt provide the information. 
Following this, Santander closed all of Mr Js and Miss Os accounts. The bank wrote to 
them on 27 July 2022, giving them two months notice that theyd need to make alternative 
banking arrangements. Mr J complained to Santander. In response the bank said it regularly 
reviews its accounts and hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr Js and Miss Os 
account.
Mr J and Miss O brought their complaint to our service where one of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. Mr J said that he had been caused stress and anxiety as a 
result of Santander closing his account. And that he and Miss O had spent hours trying sort 
out another bank account. After reviewing everything the investigator said that Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Js and Miss Os joint account. 
Mr J disagreed. He said that he has always operated his accounts properly, that Santander 
behaviour is draconian, and everyone is entitled to a bank account. He said that Santander 
had no reason to close his accounts and feels that our organisation is working hand in hand 
with the banks to prevent the rights of people to have a bank account
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in response to the investigators view, Mr J has said he is concerned that this service 
is working hand in hand - with the implication being that the bank is influencing our 
conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service 
our approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent 
conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr J does not 
agree with our view, he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final 
decision, he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish 
to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about doing that.
Ill start by setting out some context for Santanders review of Mr Js and Miss Os accounts. 
Santander has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers. Banks in the UK are also required by law to comply with 
Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements. In order to fulfil these obligations, they may need 
to review activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information to establish the 
purpose and nature of a business as well as the origin of funds  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks. This applies to both new and existing customers regardless of how 
many years a customer may have banked with Santander. The terms of Mr Js and Miss Os 
account also permit Santander to review an account and ask them for information.
The information Santander asked Mr J to provide is fairly standard information that banks, 
and other financial businesses are required to have in order to adhere to the Know Your 
Customer (KYC) responsibilities (also known as Customer Due Diligence or CDD and Know 
Your Business KYB), as set out by the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. So, in the 
circumstances, given that Santander needed the information to comply with its regulatory 
obligations, I dont think Santanders requests for Mr J to provide up-to-date information 
about his business, and the nature of his business is unfair or unreasonable.
I understand that Mr J questions why Santander is asking for this information now, when he 
has been a customer of the bank for a number of years. But, as Santander explained, the 
KYB responsibilities place an on-going obligation on banks and other financial businesses to 
ensure they have up-to-date information about their customers. As such, it is not unusual for 
a financial business to ask for such information periodically, even if the account holder has 
been a customer for some time. And this is the case especially if the information being asked 
for was not recorded (for whatever reason) at the time an account was opened.I can see that Santander initially asked Mr J for information in February 2022. It followed up 
this request in April 2022 in a phone call and sent a chaser mail to him in May 2022. It also 
explained to him in June 2022, that he could take the information to a local branch. Santander 
told Mr J if he failed to do so it may close all his accounts.
As Ive said above Santander are obliged under regulation to carry out ongoing KYC checks 
to protect accounts from identify theft, fraud, and financial crime. So, if they dont receive the 
necessary information that they request to allay those risks, I do not consider closing an 
account is a disproportionate measure for Santander to take. I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr J and Miss O, but Im satisfied that Mr J been provided with a number of 
opportunities by Santander to provide the information it needed. And he failed to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Js and Miss Os account also outline that the bank can close 
a customers account with two months notice, and in certain circumstances they can close 
an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Js account with notice. So, Im 
satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account 
as its already done. So, when I weigh everything up,  I dont believe Santander acted 
inappropriately and treated Mr J and Miss O unfairly in taking the actions it did when it 
closed their account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman