DRN-2823411
The complaint
X complains that she was badly treated by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
when she wanted to withdraw cash.
What happened
On 3 February 2021, X visited a branch of Halifax to withdraw cash of £3500. The branch 
didnt have enough cash and she was asked to come back the next day for it. When she did, 
she was questioned by police in a separate room. She left the branch.
X complained that she had been subjected to a very distressing affair. She was questioned 
by branch staff about her request and was then taken to a separate room  when the police 
appeared, in masks, to ask her questions. X is a vulnerable customer and she found the 
whole episode very distressing. This was now having an effect on her mental and physical 
heath.
Halifax said theyd acted in line with their procedures for suspect cash withdrawals. They 
had concerns that X was the victim of a scam as the withdrawal was much larger than theyd 
normally see for her. They apologised for the upset caused and offered compensation of 
£100.
X rejected the offer of compensation. She said that it didnt go far enough for what happened 
and the upset it had caused. She brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and considered what to do. She said that she understood the 
embarrassment and distress felt by X. But equally, Halifax had their procedures and were 
suspicious that X may have been the victim of a scam. And so, to try to protect her, they 
wanted to ensure the withdrawal was genuine. So, looking at both sides of what had 
happened, she felt that the compensation offered by Halifax was right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at Xs complaint, I want to assure her that Ive looked at what happened in detail 
and thought a lot about her complaint. Also, I must look at both sides of the story  from the 
perspective of both X and Halifax in order to decide was is fair and reasonable.
I can completely see where X is coming from. She says she was going to use almost all of 
her savings (£3500) to buy a car  from a man shed bought cars from before. She told 
Halifax this. But when she went to the Halifax, they asked her questions and called the 
police to the branch. She was then taken into a room to be interviewed by them. They wore 
masks  which made it even more intimidating for her. She felt like she was in a prison cell, 
under interrogation. She is a vulnerable person who clearly suffers from stress. She told us 
she has a phobia about people wearing masks.
Ive also listened to what Halifax have said. Itss a sad fact that there are a lot of scams  
where people have had their money stolen by criminals. So, Halifax  as well as all other 
banks  must have processes in place to protect customers from this activity - including X. 
Ive looked at the Halifax procedures  and Im afraid to say that Xs transaction fits closely 
with what a scammer might do to steal her money. And  it was almost all of her savings. 
Also, they told us that there had been a number of similar scams locally which closely fitted 
the description of what X told Halifax  so Halifax had to be wary and ensure that Xs cash 
withdrawal was OK. If they didnt, then X might have lost her money. I thought about whether 
the police needed to wear masks  and of course they did, under the COVID19 rules. So - 
that was unavoidable.
In Xs case, Halifaxs processes  however well-meant and correct  made X feel very upset 
and stressed. This was incredibly unfortunate, and I can see how badly she was made to 
feel. But - I cant say that Halifax made an error here, as they followed their correct process, 
however difficult that might be for X to accept.
And so  under all the circumstances, I think that Halifaxs response to Xs complaint is a fair 
one. Theyve apologised for what happened and offered compensation of £100. This is the 
amount wed expect to see here. If X wishes to accept this, then she should let us know and 
we will ask Halifax to pay it to her.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman