DRN-4369975
The complaint
Mr C has complained about KGM Underwriting Services Limited. He isnt happy that it turned 
down his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he had two classic cars stolen on 
route to a classic car show. Only one was insured by KGM and it turned down the claim as it 
didnt believe the theft happened as described by Mr C. As Mr C wasnt happy about this he 
complained to KGM and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
understood why Mr C wasnt happy she didnt think KGM had done anything wrong. It looked 
into the detail surrounding the theft but felt there were a number of discrepancies, so she 
didnt feel it had acted unfairly in declining the claim.  
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mr Cs position I dont think KGM has acted unreasonably so Im 
not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
As I understand things Mr C told KGM that he was transporting two classic cars to a classic 
car show (one was towing the other) and was intending to meet fellow classic car 
enthusiasts on route. Mr C stopped for a refreshment break and a walk but when he returned 
to his classic car and trailer they had been stolen. Mr C didnt want to call the police 
emergency number and wasnt aware of the non-emergency number, so he walked for over 
half an hour to a local police station to report the thefts. And as the police station wasnt 
open he was advised by a police community police support officer to report the thefts online. 
KGM questioned the circumstances surrounding the theft. Including the fact that the 
circumstances reported to the police werent accurate (it was recorded that Mr C was towing 
both classic cars on a trailer with another vehicle as opposed to towing one classic car with 
the other as he had reported to KGM) and Mr C didnt tell it that in fact two classic cars were 
stolen at the time of theft (as Mr C only told it about the theft of his car that was covered 
under its policy). It also asked to speak to the people Mr C was meeting on route to the 
classic car show and the person who collected him after the theft, but Mr C couldnt provide 
the necessary details. And it questioned a number of other issues about the car including the 
storage details of the car and its history. Ultimately concluding that it wasnt persuaded by 
the circumstances surrounding the theft.
Having listened to the investigators interview of Mr C and the notification of loss call and the 
circumstances surrounding the theft I can understand KGMs concerns. And while I 
understand that Mr C questions its decision I would expect him to have been able to provide 
contact details of who he was due to meet on route to the classic car show and I find it 
surprising he was towing an expensive classic car on the back of another at the time of theft. 
Indeed, while the matter has been with me for consideration his initial call to his broker has 
been provided and Mr C told the broker that he was in fact towing both the classic cars on a 
trailer and the thief stole the trailer with his two classic cars, but this isnt what he told KGM 
although this is consistent with what he told the police. And given Mr C is a classic car 
enthusiast who takes the car that was stolen to classic car shows on a regular basis I find it 
surprising that he doesnt have any pictures of his car and so I can understand why KGM 
had questions about this.
Given all of this, I cant say KGMs questions around the circumstances surrounding the theft 
of Mr Cs very expensive classic cars are unreasonable. And if Mr C is able to provide any 
further evidence in support of his claim I would expect KGM to consider it, but as it stands I 
cant say KGM has acted unfairly in turning down the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont think KGM Underwriting Services Limited 
have acted unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman