DRN-4069664
The complaint
Mrs H complains she was misadvised to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution pension policy (FSAVC) by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) then trading as Allied 
Dunbar. She wants to be put back in the position she should have been in.
Mrs H is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but for ease 
I will just refer to Mrs H except where necessary in this decision. 
What happened
Mrs H says Zurich advised her to start the FSAVC in 1997 to make additional pension 
savings on top of the Teachers Pension Scheme. She says she should have been given 
more information about the in-house AVC (the TAVC) option. Which may have had lower 
charges and she may have suffered losses as a result. She says she only realised this 
during 2022, having contacted the CMC.  
Mrs H complained to Zurich, but it said it wouldnt consider her complaint as it had been 
brought too late. It said Mrs H had six years to bring the complaint from the point the plan 
was sold to her. Or three years since she knew or reasonably should have known she had 
grounds for complaint. It said it was more than six years since the plan had been taken out in 
1997.
And it said she should have known she had grounds for complaint, by 2001 at the latest. 
Because, it had sent her a letter and updated booklet in May 2001. Which gave details of in-
house options including that these were likely to have lower charges than the FSAVC. Zurich 
said the letter also advised Mrs H she could contact it to arrange a review or if she had any 
queries. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. He thought it 
was a complaint our service could consider. 
He said issuing the generic letter and booklet several years after the advice had been given 
wouldnt have reasonably made Mrs H aware there were grounds for complaint. He said the 
information in the brochure was about in-house AVCs, not that the FSAVC sold might be 
unsuitable.  He said Zurich should look into the complaint and provide a final response to it. 
Zurich disagreed our service could consider the complaint and asked for a final decision to 
be made about this. But it also provided a final response to the complaint and didnt uphold 
it. 
Zurich said its advice had been suitable at the time and its adviser could only give advice 
about its products not the other options. It said the advisers Reason for Recommendation 
letter dated 26 September 1997, confirmed Mrs H had been given a booklet called Topping 
Up you Occupational Scheme Benefits  Your Choice (the booklet). And this gave details of 
in-house AVC and added years options compared to FSAVCs. And that she should contact 
her employer for more information before deciding what to do. It said as the plan didnt start 
until several months later, shed had adequate time to do this. 
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. 
He said the recommendation letter said that the booklet had been provided not that the in-
house options had been discussed as required by the regulations at the time. And that no 
comparison between the options had been carried out despite the regulator saying in 1997 
that tied advisers like Zurich:
could be expected to undertake some form of comparison between an FSAVC and 
the in-house AVC alternative
He said Zurich hadnt provided a copy of the booklet it say it gave to Mrs H in 1997. But that 
the updated booklet from 2001, which it said provided additional details about in house 
options and FSAVCs, still didnt contain enough information for it to have met its regulatory 
requirements.
Our investigator said Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance. And calculate the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and the in-house AVC assuming both were invested in the same benchmark index. 
If this calculation showed a loss, then the compensation amount should be paid into Mrs Hs 
pension plan if possible and if not to her directly after making a notional deduction to allow 
for the impact of taxation at the basic rate. 
Mrs H accepted our investigators view. Zurich didnt comment about our investigator 
upholding the complaint but said it still didnt think the complaint could be considered by our 
service due to the time limits applying. 
As Zurich doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided that our service can consider the complaint and that it should 
be upheld. Ill explain why.
Why we can consider this complaint
We cant consider every complaint we receive. The complaints we can look into are set 
down in the rules under which we operate. Our rules are written by the regulator, and flow 
from legislation, specifically the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules say we:
cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
If a complaint is brought outside these timescales our service can only consider it if either 
the business consents, or I think something truly prevented it being brought in time.Zurich gave the advice to take out the FSAVC plan in 1997, this is clearly more than six 
years ago, and Mrs D is out of time on this part of the rule.
For the second part of the rule, its important to note that this doesnt require Mrs D to have 
had certain knowledge of cause for complaint on a specific basis. The sense that something 
wasnt right might be enough to place an individual on a path to discovery of an actual cause 
for complaint, if they reasonably acted on that unease, in other words the ought reasonably 
to have been aware part of the rule.
Ive thought about the available evidence and arguments made by both parties. And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
It is generally the case that the in-house Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution plan 
(TAVC) had lower charges than FSAVC plans. So, for Mrs D to become reasonably aware 
that she may have had cause to complain that Zurichs advice to take out the FSAVC may 
have caused her losses something would have needed to trigger her to consider this. And 
she says that this was when she recently contacted a CMC.
Zurich argues its letter to Mrs D in May 2001 enclosing an updated version of the booklet it 
says was initially provided to her in 1997 (of which it hasnt provided a copy) ought to have 
made her reasonably aware she had cause for complaint. It says the booklet had been 
updated with further details about in-house AVC options and FSAVCs including information 
about charges. 
I dont agree. I think this communication was at best confusing and likely to mislead most 
people receiving it. I dont think it was sufficient to have made Mrs D reasonably aware she 
had cause to complain for the following reasons:
1. It was a generic letter and booklet. Nothing specifically drew Mrs Ds attention that 
there might be an issue with her plan or the advice shed been given nearly four 
years earlier. And the covering letter invites Mrs D to contact Zurich if she had any 
questions arising from this revised booklet rather than about the advice shed been 
given. 
2. Taken together the letter and booklet are confusingly contradictory. The booklet does 
give information about in-house AVCs and FSAVCs. But I think the information, on 
charges (the key point here), is contradicted by the letter. And I think it highly 
probable that the one-page letter which appears to confirm what revisions had been 
made, would be given more consideration than the eight-page booklet.   
The letter says the updated booklet is enclosed and it would draw your attention to 
the following revisions. It states Page 1 makes the additional reference  And 
quotes the additional wording in full. 
It then says, Page 3 refers to and quotes the following:
The costs associated with setting-up and administering an in-house AVC are 
often met by the employer, or your employer may have agreed enhanced 
terms with the insurance company, in the form of reduced charges. This could 
potentially lead to higher retirement benefits than under an FSAVC offering a 
similar investment fund. The charges levied on contributions to an in-house 
AVC are usually lower than those charged under the Allied Dunbar FSAVC Pension Account, particularly in the early years, although over the life of the 
plan these may even out.
This wording strongly suggests that charges would have made little difference 
overall. And putting it in the letter clearly gives this statement a high degree of 
prominence. I think given the previous details about page 1 noted above most 
readers would conclude this was the revised wording.
But this isnt the wording in the booklet provided. This says charges may be lower 
rather than usually lower, which I consider has quite a different meaning. And it 
omits the particularly in the early years, although over the life of the plan these may 
even out. part. Providing a fairer, more balanced view of the likely charging situation 
than the wording set out in the letter.
It isnt exactly clear where the wording quoted in the letter is from. Although I suspect 
it is from the 1997 version of the booklet. If so, I think it is confusing and misleading 
to quote the old section in full without specifically stating it was the earlier wording 
rather than the newer version. I think any updated information in the booklet was 
skewed by this misleading presentation. 
3. The booklet is very much sales orientated. It empathises possible advantages of 
FSAVCs whilst providing limited details of in-house options. I think this undermines 
the importance of the information about the likely charging differential. For example, 
the section on the additional Privacy a FSAVC might offer over in house options is 
longer than the section on charges.
I think having read the booklet and particularly the letter Mrs D would have been given no 
reason to think there was any cause for concern about the advice shed been provided with. 
That is confirmed by the fact that she continued to pay contributions to her FSAVC after this. 
And Im satisfied that our service can consider this complaint.
Was the FSAVC mis-sold
Zurich hasnt disputed our investigators view that the advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements at the time, but I will also consider this aspect.
Mrs D made several points about why the advice wasnt suitable. But I think the key issue is 
whether in-house AVC options were properly discussed and considered as required by the 
financial service regulations at the time. Zurich argued they were, in part because she was 
given the 1997 version of the booklet, discussed above. Its unfortunate that a copy hasnt 
been made available.
What we do have as evidence is the fact find document completed at the time, the Reasons 
for Recommendation letter and the updated booklet provided in 2001. On the basis of these 
documents, I dont think Mrs D was given suitable advice.
Zurichs tied adviser couldnt give advice about the TAVC, but by 1997 the regulator (the 
FSA) expected tied advisers to discuss the generic differences between any in-house AVC 
option and the FSAVC alternative, taking into account their features. That would have 
included referring to the charges of each option and that in-house AVCs were usually 
cheaper. And to also direct the consumer to their employer to obtain more information on in-
house options.
The Reasons for Recommendation letter provided to Mrs D doesnt discuss the differences 
between the in-house and FSAVC options. It says the booklet has been provided. Which sets out the benefits and features of the FSAVC and those typically available under the 
employers in-house scheme. And that Mrs D had advised me that you understand the 
choices available to you. It makes no comment at all about charges, which is surprising 
given how important this consideration was. Nor does it specifically suggest that Mrs H 
contact her employer or pension scheme for further details about in house options. 
Zurich says the updated booklet gave additional information about these points. That it felt 
the need to issue an updated booklet to existing customers suggests the booklet issued in 
1997 was inadequate and didnt meet regulatory standards at the time. A conclusion that 
was reached in other final decisions made by our service, where the 1997 booklet was made 
available. 
And Zurichs fact find document has a section on In house AVC which asks a few 
questions including about the alternative added years option. The whole section has a line 
drawn through it with no entries made, rather than the questions being answered yes or no. I 
think this further suggests there was no discussion about in house alternatives and the 
generic differences and features including charges at the time.
So, from the evidence available it doesnt appear that Zurichs advice complied with the 
regulatory requirements at the time. That means the policy was mis-sold. And if that has 
resulted in a loss for Mrs D it is fair that Zurich puts her as closely as possible back into the 
position she should have been in. 
Putting things right
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to
1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd.I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to undertake the loss redress calculation and pay any 
compensation that may be due as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman