DRN-1705052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2000. The loan was for £22,000 
and was to be repaid over 22 years. They paid a monthly premium of £17.64 for the policy, 
which covered Mrs P only. The policy was designed to pay a monthly benefit £187.70 if  
she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Itd also have cleared the 
loan if Mrs P had died.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about whether Halifax gained Mr and Mrs P consent and whether it made it 
clear to them that the policy was optional.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the loan agreement signed by Mr and Mrs P. I can see it sets 
out details of the loan and separately there is a section about PPI. Within the section is a 
question which reads, Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance. Beside this are 
two boxes, one marked Yes and one marked No. I can see the Yes box has been 
marked with a printed cross while the No box is left blank. While the cross has been printed 
I think its likely this was done as a result of a conversation between Mr and Mrs P and the 
Halifax representative.
Having weighed everything up, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs P aware that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it, even if they dont 
remember now, many years later.
Halifax says its representative shouldve recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. Because of 
this it had a duty to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for them.
The policy only provided cover for Mrs P, and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time, I think the recommendation was right for her. I say this for the following reasons:-It looks like Mrs P wouldve been eligible for the cover and doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the key exclusions or limitations under the policy. For example Mrs P has 
told us she didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Ive thought about what Mrs P has told us about her employers sick pay benefits. Mrs P has 
said her employer wouldve paid her full pay for up to six months followed by half pay for a 
further six months. But this particular PPI policy couldve paid out for up to 60 months if  
  Mrs P was off work because of accident or sickness and this would be on top of any sick 
pay she mightve received. So the benefit couldve lasted for much longer than Mrs Ps sick 
pay. 
And the PPI couldve also paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job, meaning that   
 Mrs P could use any redundancy pay for other expenses or living costs. So I think Mr and 
Mrs P wouldve found the policy useful if things went wrong.
The policy cost was £17.64 per month and it appears to have been comparable to other 
similar policies from the time. Ive not seen anything to make me think it was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs P.
Bearing in mind the loan was taken out over a term of 22 years and was secured on their 
home, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P wouldve valued the extra security the cover offered 
them.
It could be that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs P all the information it shouldve. But for the 
same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation, I dont think any clearer 
information wouldve led Mr and Mrs P to decline the policy.
In summary I think the PPI policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. I think Halifax made them 
aware it was optional and they chose to take it out. I cant be sure if Halifax gave Mr and  
Mrs P all the information it shouldve. But even if it had given them clear information about 
the policy I think they still wouldve bought it. So I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a 
result of anything Halifax mightve done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, and I make no 
award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman