DRN-1734075
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Coventry Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened 
Mr W took out a mortgage in August 1993. This complaint is about a PPI policy that 
protected his monthly mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt feel hed seen enough to uphold the mis-selling complaint. Mr W 
disagrees with this view. His main complaint is that he didnt know he had taken out PPI. 
Mr W has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Ive seen nothing signed by Mr W to show how he took out the PPI. But I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Coventry Building Society or Mr W still to have this paperwork after so 
long. A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal 
private information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws 
set out rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details 
secure. I can appreciate that Mr W feels frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that 
Coventry Building Society cant now produce documents showing how the PPI was sold to 
him isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
I cant know exactly what, if anything, was discussed when Mr W took out PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect him to recall exactly what was said so long ago. This means that what 
hes told us isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.  
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Coventry Building 
Society didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr W not to choose PPI if he didnt want to 
have it. Ill explain why I say this.
Coventry Building Society said their mortgage application wouldve had an option for Mr W to 
decline cover. This doesnt mean it was added on automatically if he didn't say he didnt want PPI. It means that he wouldve been able to see that it wasnt compulsory and it was up 
to Mr W to say if he wanted to have PPI. 
In order to take out the policy, Mr W wouldve had to complete a separate application for the 
PPI and say what amount of benefit was required.  
Coventry Building Society has sent me an example of the application form it says Mr W 
wouldve had to complete in order to take out PPI. This paperwork was used to sell the sort 
of policy Mr W had set up to protect his mortgage. So I think its likely that Mr W wouldve 
had to fill in something similar to get this PPI added on to his account.  
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time when 
he first took it out. Mr Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. He told us he had no other insurance in place when he took out his mortgage. So 
I think its fair to say that the policy offered him benefits he wouldnt otherwise have been 
able to rely on and I can see why he mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I dont doubt that Mr W is sure hes right about what hes told us. But I can completely 
understand why Mr W mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale after so long. On 
balance, I think its likely that Mr W decided he wanted to have the benefits and security that 
PPI offered and it was added to his account when he chose to apply for it.  
Coventry Building Society says it didnt advise customers about having PPI. But it still had to 
make sure that it gave Mr W enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think about whether this 
makes any overall difference to the outcome of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W was eligible for the PPI policy. He told us he was entitled to full sick pay for 6 months 
and after that hed have got half pay for the next 6 months if he was still off work sick. PPI 
wouldve paid out in full for the whole 12 months on top of Mr Ws work benefits. So I think 
the policy offered him a valuable benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time, 
especially if he had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and bearing in 
mind hed only have been on half pay after 6 months off work.                  
Also, the policy wouldve paid a benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr W was 
unemployed. And he couldve made repeated claims. So the policy couldve provided long 
term protection for the mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Mr W mentioned having savings he couldve relied on  but 
I havent seen any details about this. And I dont know if he wouldve always had savings he 
could depend on to make his monthly repayments if he wasnt able to work. So this doesnt 
affect my overall view. 
As far as I can see, Mr W wouldnt have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
might not have covered  like being in an unusual employment situation or having an 
ongoing medical condition. So, I think it unlikely that better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr W off taking out the cover.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr W when he bought the policy. But he had 
to fill in a separate application in order to apply for the policy. So I think he wouldve 
understood the insurance was something extra hed have to pay for if he wanted to have it. 
This makes me think he wanted to have PPI at the time he took it out and he was happy to 
pay for it  even if hes forgotten this now. From what Ive seen, he hasnt suggested that he 
couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And as Mr W paid for the policy monthly, he couldve 
cancelled it at any time without losing out financially if he no longer wanted to pay for it. Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way the policy was sold. But 
I think Mr W still wouldve decided to buy the PPI even if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation. 
So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything that Coventry Building Society did wrong. 
This means that theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr W has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I can see that our 
adjudicator has already responded and I dont feel theres anything more I can usefully add 
to what our adjudicator has already said. So in my decision I've concentrated on dealing with 
the main points raised that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman