DRN-3990399
The complaint
Mrs M complains that following the total loss of her car in an accident, the settlement
payment Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) offered was unfair, under her
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was involved in a car accident. She contacted LV and it accepted her claim. It
deemed that her car was a total loss and offered a settlement payment based on its market
value. Mrs M didnt think this valuation was fair and highlighted the optional extras the car
came with, including an electric sliding door.
LV reassessed its valuation and offered a final settlement payment for £8,761 less the policy
excess. Mrs M says she cant buy a like-for-like model with this amount and asked for more.
LV didnt increase its offer, so Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. He says LV had behaved fairly when establishing the market
value of Miss Ms car, in line with its policy terms.
Miss M disagreed. She says her car was bought from a main dealer, it was serviced
regularly and was in good condition. She maintains its value is higher than LV offered and so
asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs M wants the best settlement she can achieve for the loss of her
car. In her complaint she says she couldnt find a like-for-like replacement for the amount LV
offered her. But its policy doesnt provide for a like for like replacement. It provides the
market value in the case of a total loss. This is defined in the policy terms as:
the cost of replacing your car with the same make, model and specification. Age, mileage
and condition will be taken into account.
The terms also say:
Well ask an engineer for advice, use motor trade guides and other sources to determine
the market value. Well consider the amount you could have reasonably got for your car if
you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft and not the price you paid for it.
Our investigator has explained the approach our service applies to car valuations. We dont
provide valuations for cars, but we will look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We take all
other available evidence into account as well, for example, engineers reports.
Mrs M has provided examples of similar cars she found advertised. These cars are
advertised at a higher price than LVs settlement offer. I have looked at the information she
provided, but we dont generally find advertisements particularly persuasive. This is because
these are essentially asking prices and not selling prices. Its generally accepted that
advertised for sale prices are higher than the actual selling price. Its for this reason that the
trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
Our Investigator thought LVs settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked at the motor trade guide valuations
LV provided. These valuations were for cars of the same make, model, age, features,
mileage, and condition as Mrs Ms car at the date of her loss. These valuations gave a range
between £8,470 and £8,860. Ultimately LV offered £8,761, which was within this range.
Our investigator obtained a further valuation using the same information for Mrs Ms car. I
can also see that he used the retail transacted valuation, not the trade price, which Id
expect. This valuation was for £9,781. I was able to obtain a valuation from another of the
trade guides, again using the details for Mrs Ms car at the time of her loss. This valued her
car at £9,327. I can see that Mrs Ms car had optional extras included when the car was
made. These were factored into the valuations LV relied on and in those our service
obtained.
I think the approach LV took to valuing Mrs Ms car was fair. Valuing second-hand cars isnt
an exact science so I would expect there to be a range of values showing between the trade
guides.
However, the two valuations our service obtained are higher than the upper range of values
LV referred to. The average value when including these figures comes to £9,109.50. This is
around £350 more than LVs settlement offer. When considering the value of Ms Ms car this
isnt an insignificant amount. Because of this I think its fair that LV pays this higher amount
in settlement of Mrs Ms claim.
In summary, having considered all of this I dont think LV treated Mrs M fairly in the valuation
it placed on her car, given the higher valuations our service has seen. So, I think its fair that
LV pays Mrs M a total payment of £9,109.50 in settlement of her claim, in addition to 8%
simple interest on the unpaid amount.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and LV should:
pay Mrs M a total of £9,109.50 to settle her claim, in addition to 8% simple interest
from the date of her loss until the payment is made. *If LV considers that its required
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs
M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LV responded to ask for copies of the trade guide valuations referred to in my provisional decision. This information was sent as requested. LV didnt respond further. 
Mrs M didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mrs M a total of £9,109.50 to settle her claim, in addition to 8% simple interest
from the date of her loss until the payment is made. *If LV considers that its required
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs
M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman