DRN-4404233
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Domestic & General Insurance Plc did after he made a claim on 
his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S has insurance with D&G which covers a number of devices including his laptop. In May 
2023 he made a claim for damage to his laptop. D&G carried out a repair and returned the 
laptop to Mr S. He subsequently complained the repair had led to a significant loss of 
storage capacity; he said the laptop previously had a 1TB HDD and a 512 GB SSD which 
had been replaced with a 230 GB drive.  
D&G said it couldnt confirm the original specifications of Mr Ss laptop due to its age. But its 
records showed the laptop provided to it had a 256 GB SSD which it provided a photograph 
of. And it said that had been returned to Mr S and an equivalent was fitted in the laptop as 
part of the repair. 
Our investigator didnt think D&G had done anything wrong. Mr S remained dissatisfied. He 
provided a receipt showing the purchase of a 1TB HDD which he said had been fitted in his 
laptop prior to it being damaged. He drew attention to poor online reviews of the repair agent 
used by D&G. And he set out what he thought it should do to put things right. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I appreciate Mr S has found this a very stressful experience. Hes told us about the 
reliance he places on his laptop for maintaining his independence. I understand why thats 
important to him. But the issue I need to consider is whether D&G did anything wrong when 
carrying out the repair to that laptop. And the relevant rules and industry guidelines say D&G 
has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy. This provides cover for 
Accidental Damage and says in the event of that it will adjust, repair, replace the Covered 
Device or pay the cost of replacement. 
It says the spare parts used will be either manufacturer spare parts of equivalent with 
similar specification And I think any parts used should be of a specification that puts Mr S 
back in the position he would have been but for the damage. 
The issue in this case is whether that was done or not. Mr S is adamant his laptop had both 
a 1TB HDD and a 512 GB SSD when he sent it in for repair. However, the notes from the 
time record it having a 256 GB SDD. The potential specifications for Mr Ss laptop include 
that option so theres no reason why it couldnt have included this. The notes also say the 
unit has suffered from impact damage which has resulted in damage to the components 
listed which is why the drive needed to be replaced. And Ive seen a copy of the photograph 
D&G says is of the drive replaced in his laptop which is a 256 GB SDD. Ive also listened to 
a call D&G had with the repair agents in which they confirmed thats what happened. 
And while I appreciate Mr S has provided a receipt showing the purchase of a 1TB HDD 
there doesnt appear to be other evidence to show that was fitted to this laptop. Mr S has 
also provided some poor reviews of the repair agents. But Ive checked the reviews site in 
question and while there are a relatively low number of reviews most give the highest rating. 
Taking all of that into account I dont think, on balance, that D&G did anything wrong here. 
As a result I dont think theres anything it needs to do to put things right. So I havent 
needed to consider the suggestions Mr S made in relation to this. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss concern that the replacement drive in his device is 230 GB and 
not 256 GB. However, the screen shot hes provided in fact shows 237 GB of available 
space. In any case I dont think that means a smaller storage drive has been installed. His 
laptop is running a Windows operating system and I think thats more likely to be a reflection 
of the way in which Windows calculates available drive space. 
Finally, Mr S has expressed concern D&G retained the information contained on the drive 
removed from his laptop. However, its told us that it was returned to him. If Mr S hasnt 
received the returned drive he may want to contact D&G about this to see if it can provide 
more information on when and how it was sent back to him.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman