DRN-3601693
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC , trading as Virgin Money, wouldnt allow a 
balance transfer request from a Clydesdale account when he took out Virgin Money credit 
card. He would like his credit cards merged and compensation  for loss and upset.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Virgin Money has evidenced that Mr R was able to transfer balances from two other 
cards to his Virgin Money Credit card. However, Mr R didnt input the card issuer 
details for the third transfer. When the application was processed Virgin Money 
declined this transfer as it was from a Clydesdale account. 
I have seen both the information provided on the website which explains that existing 
balances from Clydesdale and some other companies  cant be transferred to Virgin 
Money accounts as they are all part of the same company. And  section 6.6 of 
Clydesdale Banks terms and conditions  confirms this. So , I think this information 
was available to Mr R and  I dont accept his view that he was under no obligation to 
look at this information or to take it into account.. 
Mr R has said he wasnt given the option to withdraw from the credit card application. 
I appreciate Virgin Money may not have specifically told him this. But this option is 
clearly stated in its terms and condition under section 17.1. So , if Mr R realised 
within 14 days of opening the new account that it wasnt suitable for him, he could 
have chosen to withdraw.
I cant reasonably ask Virgin Money to allow Mr R to merge all of his credit cards into 
one as he would like as I dont believe the bank made any mistake in n not allowing a 
balance transfer from a Clydesdale account. For the same reasons, whilst I 
appreciate Mr R may have suffered some upset as a result of not being able to 
transfer his Clydesdale balance I cant reasonably ask Virgin Money to  compensate 
him as I dont believe it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman