DRN-1972635
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains about the advice it received from Mercer Limited to take out 
a new group private medical insurance policy.
A is represented in this complaint by Mr M. 
What happened
A held a group private medical insurance policy with an insurer (that Ill call Insurer Y). That 
policy was due for renewal on 1 November 2019, and was held on a medical history 
disregarded (MHD) basis.
Mercer advised A to switch to a new group policy with a different insurer (that Ill call Insurer 
Z). That policy would be taken out on a continuing personal medical exclusions (CPME) 
basis. 
Before the policy with Insurer Z could go ahead, A was advised that a medical declaration 
form would need to be completed for each member. As one of As members of staff was in 
remission from cancer and was still having check-ups, that meant she wouldnt be covered 
under the policy with Insurer Z for cancer treatment. So A didnt take out the new policy with 
Insurer Z and instead renewed with Insurer Y. 
A then complained to Mercer about its advice. Mr M said hed told Mercer that the switch to 
another provider would have to be on MHD terms so that pre-existing conditions would be 
covered.
Mercer accepted that it had given A wrong advice. It offered £100 compensation for that. 
Unhappy with this, A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mercer ought to 
have known that its recommendation wasnt suitable for A. However, she didnt think that A 
had lost out financially, as the policy with Insurer Z didnt go ahead. She also didnt think A 
couldve taken out a new policy on a MHD basis at a competitive price. The investigator 
therefore concluded that the compensation Mercer had offered was reasonable. 
A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that Mr M wrote to Mercer on 7 October 2019 and asked whether the members would 
be on MHD terms for the new policy, so that pre-existing conditions could be brought over 
from the previous policy. 
Mercer responded to say the members would transfer on a CPME basis and that meant any 
exclusions currently applied to their cover will continue to be excluded but no new exclusions 
will be applied. As they have historically been on MHD terms there should be no exclusions 
currently applied (the members will be aware if there is) so it is not officially MHD but there 
will be no exclusions or underwriting as if it was MHD. 
That information was wrong. Although the underwriting terms for the new policy were on a 
CPME basis, Insurer Z required the members to complete a medical declaration, which 
meant that exclusions could still be applied. Given that one of As members of staff was 
receiving ongoing cancer check-ups, it was highly likely that Insurer Z would have excluded 
any claims relating to cancer for that person. 
Mercer accepts that it gave A wrong advice. The issue is how to put the matter right. 
As our investigator has explained, the aim of this service is to place a customer back in the 
position they would have been in (as far as possible) if the financial business hadnt made an 
error. 
Mr M says that because they only learnt of Mercers error shortly before renewal of the policy 
with Insurer Y, they didnt have enough time to find another broker and obtain cover 
elsewhere. However, they havent provided any evidence to show that even if they had had 
more time, that they couldve obtained comparable cover elsewhere that wouldve covered 
pre-existing conditions for less than their renewal price with Insurer Y. 
Mercer has confirmed that if it had realised that Insurer Z required members to complete a 
medical declaration, it would have recommended that A remain with Insurer Y anyway. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that A hasnt shown that it suffered a financial loss as 
a result of Mercers error. However, I do accept that Mercer caused A inconvenience as a 
directors time was taken up with the matter. I think £100 compensation is appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Ive noted Mr Ms concerns about how the matter has impacted him and other members of 
staff, however we can only consider compensation for inconvenience caused to the 
company itself. That means we cant take into account any upset or distress caused to 
individual staff members. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as I think Mercer Limited has offered 
appropriate compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A and A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman