DRN-2848180
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank 
Direct Investments (Lloyds), wrongly sold all of the investments in the estates portfolio. 
The complaint is brought on the executors behalf by a solicitor, who I will call C.
What happened
C is administering the estate of Mr D on behalf of the executor. The late Mr D held a portfolio 
of investments with Lloyds. In October 2019, the solicitor sent a form of instruction 
confirming that it wanted to sell the investments. But it said Lloyds shouldnt carry out the 
sales until it had received telephone instructions from C. C says this was because it was 
planning to only sell the investments showing a loss since the date of death and transfer the 
other investments to the beneficiaries. This was to maximise inheritance tax and capital 
gains tax reliefs and allowances. When C phoned to give instructions, Lloyds told it that all of 
the investments had already been sold.
During the call, Lloyds apologised and offered to reinstate the investments. But C declined 
this offer. A short while later it complained.
Lloyds apologised and offered to pay the estate £350. But C said it had calculated the 
estates losses to be in excess of £16,000, including legal and accountancy costs.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Lloyds had made a mistake. But that it had offered to put it right and C declined this offer. In 
the circumstances, he thought the banks offer of £350 compensation to be fair and 
reasonable.
C didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
It would not have been possible for Lloyds to reinstate the sold shares without it affecting 
the tax position. 
Lloyds mistake meant C could not undertake the planning for IHT and CGT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake. So Im required to decide whether its done enough 
to correct that mistake and compensate the estate of the late Mr D.
I fully understand what C was trying to achieve here and why, to achieve its IHT and CGT 
plans, it asked Lloyds to wait for its phone instructions before selling any investments. Lloyds 
failed to do this. In situations like this, where a business has made a mistake, I would expect 
the business to put the consumer back in the position theyd be in if the mistake hadnt 
happened.
I find that Lloyds offered to do this. It said it would reinstate the investments. C said this 
wouldnt have been possible, because it needed the probate values restored to enable it to 
effectively start again. I dont know exactly what Lloyds would have done  but if it wasnt 
able to restore the correct book costs for the investments, it would have been able to write a 
letter to HM Revenue & Customs setting out exactly what should have happened if it hadnt 
made a mistake. I find this would have most likely allowed C to utilise the tax reliefs and 
allowances as it had planned.
So I find that Lloyds made a reasonable offer to put the estate back in the position it would 
have been in if it hadnt made a mistake.
But I find that C declined the banks offer. 
Ive listened to the phone call when the offer was made. I accept C wasnt expecting to hear 
that all of the investments had been sold and may not have immediately realised the full 
impact of this. But its member of staff said, If its all gone through, thats fine and Its not 
awful. There was no indication that the mistake had caused a problem and there was no 
discussion about why C thought Lloyds wouldnt be able to reinstate the investments or why 
it didnt want it to do so. If C had raised its concerns at this point, Lloyds could have 
explained in more detail what it was able to do to correct its mistake.
Following Cs written complaint, Lloyds apologised and offered to pay the estate £350. As C 
had declined the banks offer to put things right, I find this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments, should pay the estate of Mr D £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman