DRN-2876042
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly recorded mortgage arrears on his credit file. 
Mr G also said while the term of his interest only mortgage was due to expire soon, Lloyds 
hadnt offered help with this. He asks for compensation for costs and worry.
What happened
Mr G says Lloyds incorrectly recorded a late payment on his credit file for June 2019. The 
term of his interest only mortgage was due to end in mid-2020 and he says the incorrect 
information on his credit file meant he couldnt re-mortgage. He says this could mean he has 
to sell the property and lose the value of a potential development.
Mr G asked Lloyds to extend the term of his mortgage for five years or until he got planning 
consent to develop the property. The property has been rented out since 2007 and Mr G 
says the rent covers the monthly mortgage payments.
Lloyds said if it was Mr Gs intention to sell the property it would allow a grace period for this, 
provided it had evidence it was being marketed. It said it wouldnt extend the term as the 
property is let out: it said Mr G would have to take out a buy to let mortgage. Lloyds removed 
the late payment from Mr Gs credit file. Lloyds offered to compensate Mr G for costs, such 
as for mortgage valuations, if he provided evidence of these costs and that the mortgage he 
applied for was declined due to the adverse data. It paid £300 compensation for recording 
arrears incorrectly. Mr G says this isnt enough.
Our investigator said Lloyds offer of £300 and compensation for costs related to recording 
the late payment in June 2019 was fair. The investigator said it was fair for Lloyds to say it 
wouldnt extend the term of Mr Gs residential mortgage as the property was let out.
Mr G didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says his mortgage payment left his account on 28 June 2019. Lloyds didnt credit his 
mortgage account until 1 July. As a result, Lloyds recorded a late payment on his credit file. 
Mr G raised a dispute through one of the credit reference agencies in September 2019. 
Lloyds says it didnt receive the evidence it requested (of the date Mr G had made the 
payment) until early January 2020. Once it received this, it corrected the information 
reported to the credit reference agencies. Lloyds says it checked with the three credit 
reference agencies it reports to and theyd updated their records by early February 2020. It 
paid £300 to Mr G for the upset and inconvenience caused and said it would refund costs, if 
Mr G provided evidence. I think this was fair, in the circumstances. 
While Mr G says he had mortgage applications declined due to the adverse data he hasnt 
provided evidence to support this. Mr Gs credit file was corrected in early 2020, so he still 
had about six months to apply for a mortgage before the term of his mortgage with Lloyds 
expired.
Mr G borrowed the money and he does have to repay it  and fairness suggests he did this 
when the term expired. Mr G says hes been hoping to get planning consent to develop the 
site for 20 years. I appreciate hes disappointed that hes having to sell the property without 
benefitting from this potential increase in value. 
Lloyds says the property has been let without consent. Mr G says he wasnt told he needed 
consent. Either way, I dont think this changes the outcome of this complaint. The property is 
let out and Mr G says he doesnt intend to move back into it. Lloyds says it wont extend the 
term of this residential mortgage as the property is let out. I think thats fair. Mr G doesnt live 
in the property and he does have the means to repay the mortgage, by selling the property if 
need be. Mr G hasnt said if hes tried to refinance since early 2020. 
Lloyds said it would allow a grace period for the property to be sold. Mr G said the property 
suffered flood damage in March 2020 which took some months to put right. Its now on the 
market and Mr G says there are regular viewings. Hopefully Mr G will be able to sell the 
property and repay the mortgage. Id urge him to keep Lloyds updated about the steps hes 
taking to repay the mortgage. And Id remind Lloyds of its duty to treat Mr G fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find the redress offered by Lloyds Bank 
PLC fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman