DRN-2235604
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with his 
credit card application and that it has reported information about it to the Credit Reference 
Agencies.
What happened
Mr B says he applied for a Barclaycard credit card account in October 2019 which was 
approved. He says he was asked to upload account statements which he did but was told 
they couldnt be used. Mr B says he called Barclaycard and asked it to close the account, 
but it didnt respond to his e-mails and has recorded information about this application on his 
credit file which he would like removed.
Barclaycard says it couldnt validate Mr Bs income from the account statements he sent it as 
his income came from transfers into the account rather from a source it could check. It says 
Mr B told it to close the account on 1 November 2019 which it did and says it sent Mr B its 
final response letter to his complaint on 6 November 2019. Barclaycard says its not 
responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr B had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard could have explained that the statements were not the problem but the 
income source but didnt think it would have made a difference as Mr B said the statements 
were all he had. The investigator thought it reasonable that Barclaycard check Mr Bs 
income and didnt make a mistake by rejecting the application or by reporting accurate 
information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). He didnt think Barclaycard was 
responsible for Mr B not receiving the final response letter.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says the core issue is that Barclaycard refused to accept 
a downloaded account statement and had no reason to report adverse information to the 
CRAs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has delay fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked at the information Mr B would have seen when he applied for the Barclaycard 
account. And Im satisfied that Barclaycard made clear in the application terms and 
conditions that information about the application and account would be reported to the 
CRAs and that information would be checked with the CRAs before an account application 
was approved. Im also satisfied that such checks are routinely carried out and that 
Barclaycard is required to provide accurate information to the CRAs. I appreciate that Mr B 
would like any information reported about him to the CRAs removed or any information 
about this account removed. But I cant fairly order Barclaycard to do so as Im satisfied that 
it hasnt made a mistake and I have not seen any evidence that the reported information is 
incorrect or didnt reflect what took place here  that Mr B opened an account that he asked 
to be closed.
I appreciate that Mr B says the core part of his complaint is that Barclaycard rejected the 
account statements he sent it. I accept that Barclaycard could have been clearer in 
explaining that there wasnt a problem with those statements, but the issue was that it 
couldnt verify Mr Bs income from them. I dont think that matters as Mr B has told us they 
were the only statements he had. But I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by concluding it couldnt accept those statements as evidence of income as 
they on the whole contained details of transfers into the account rather than information 
about the source of Mr Bs income. Im satisfied that Barclaycard is entitled to decide on the 
type of evidence it requires to lend responsibly and to make sure its lending is affordable. I 
also make clear to Mr B that its not our role to tell a business what that evidence is or what 
type of evidence it should accept.
I can see that Barclaycard closed Mr Bs account as he told it to do. And that it sent Mr B its 
final response letter to him that was correctly addressed. I appreciate Mr B says he didnt 
receive that letter, but I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for that as its not 
responsible for the delivery of mail.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B applied for this account and so information was correctly reported 
to the CRAs. Im also satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to reject the evidence of income 
that Mr B provided in the account statements as they didnt contain details of the source of 
the money. And that overall it acted reasonably by reporting accurate information to the 
CRAs as its required to do. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclaycard to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman