DRN-2365355
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays in Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a car 
insurance claim and their failure to keep him properly updated.
What happened
Mr M had a car insurance policy underwritten by Skyfire. He made a claim in March 2018 
after he was involved in an accident.
Skyfire initially told Mr M theyd seek a 50/50 split of costs since both drivers appeared 
equally at fault. They told Mr M this might affect his no claims discount in future.
Mr M says Skyfire failed to keep him updated as their discussions with the third party insurer 
went on. 
He says in June 2019, he was advised the case had been resolved in court, in his favour. He 
was not to be regarded as at fault in any way for the accident.
In July 2019, he asked Skyfire to refund the excess hed paid on repairs to his car (£350). 
And to refund the additional premium hed paid when his policy had renewed with the no 
claims discount significantly reduced (£368.74).
Mr M says he chased Skyfire several times over the following months. He says his excess 
was refunded 11 months later. But when he still hadnt received the refund on his premiums 
by June 2020, he complained to Skyfire.
When he had no response to his complaint, Mr M brought it to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought Skyfire should refund the additional premium Mr M had paid  and pay 
him £500 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Skyfire admitted theyd made errors, but because they think the suggested compensation is 
too much, they asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute about the facts in this case. Mr M was involved in an accident in 
March 2018. The issue of liability wasnt resolved until June 2019, when the court found 
Mr M hadnt been at fault for the accident.
Mr Ms excess was refunded around 11 months later. And his additional premium hadnt 
been refunded at the time he complained to us in June 2020. But Skyfire accept it should be 
refunded now.
The only issue that remains is how much compensation Skyfire should pay Mr M for the 
trouble and upset hes suffered because of their mistakes and/or poor customer service 
between March 2018 and June 2020  a period of more than two years.
Skyfire admit theyve made mistakes and provided poor service, but they say much of the 
delay was caused by the third partys insurers and/or by the solicitors firm they instructed in 
the case.
I can see that the third party insurer was difficult to deal with in this case - and didnt always 
respond to Skyfire in a timely manner. Ill come to the detail of that in a moment. But the 
solicitor was working for Skyfire and, that being the case, I dont think Skyfire can reasonably 
pass the buck for any delays entirely on to the solicitor. 
Looking at Skyfires own claim notes, I can see that after the claim was made on 23 March 
2018, Skyfire spent three and a half months in discussions with the third party insurer - and 
didnt update Mr M at all in that time. 
In that three and a half months, the third party insurer asked Skyfire to cover all of their 
costs, Skyfire said the costs should be split 50/50, and the third party insurer asked why they 
thought that.
There are three simple communications  with a month on each occasion between receipt 
and reply. And, as I say, no update to Mr M.
In early July 2018, Skyfire asked Mr M to provide an account of the accident, with a diagram 
to show the movement of the two cars.
Theres then a period of two and a half months, in which Skyfire explain Mr Ms account to 
the third party insurer, they say theyre still not happy with a 50/50 split, Skyfire send the 
statement and diagram (one month later) and instruct solicitors (a further one month on). 
Again, theres no update provided to Mr M until the end of September 2018 
At that point  September 2018  Skyfire explained to Mr M that there was an on-going 
dispute about liability.
In late October, theres a note of the claim file to say its not in Skyfires interests to pursue 
the third party insurer. Its not for me to say whether that decision was unjustified or 
unreasonable, but it meant that the case effectively sat unactioned until March 2019 (six 
months later). 
The file was reviewed several times in that period. But there was no communication with 
Mr M  either when the decision was made in October 2018 or at any of the review points 
over the next six months.
In March 2019, Skyfire appear to have instructed their solicitors to proceed with the case. 
And in July, after hed been told the court result, Mr M chased Skyfire. Theres no evidence 
to suggest theyd attempted to contact him.
At this point, Skyfire told Mr M they would refund his excess and reinstate his no claims 
discount. The contact notes arent detailed, but it would be safe to assume Mr M thought that 
meant hed be refunded the additional premium hed been charged when the policy had 
been renewed. And in my view, he would have been justified in making that assumption.
Also in July 2019, Skyfire instructed their solicitors to seek to recover their costs from the 
third partys insurer.
In late August  more than a month and a half after his previous conversation with them, Mr M chased Skyfire for an update, without success. He did so again about a month later. 
Skyfire have admitted that during this period they didnt reply to Mr M on occasion. And they 
failed to contact him again when theyd promised to do so. They also told Mr M to approach 
their solicitors direct  and when he did so, he was told Skyfire already had the information 
they needed from the solicitors.
A month after that last contact, Skyfire contacted Mr M to say they were still chasing the third 
party insurer to recover their costs. Two months after that (in December 2019), Mr M had to 
contact Skyfire again for an update and was told Skyfire had asked their solicitors to 
continue to pursue the third party insurer.
The claim notes show thats its fully three months after that, in March 2020, that Skyfire 
chased their solicitors for a progress report. When they had no reply, they left it for another 
two weeks before chasing again. And when there was no reply to that chaser, they left it for 
another two weeks before chasing again.
Eventually, in late April or early May 2020, it appears Skyfire received payment from the third 
party insurer.
Mr Ms excess was then refunded, as I understand it. But no action was taken to refund the 
additional cost of his premium when the policy had been renewed. 
I should also say, this (the refund of the additional part of the premium) wasnt a cost Skyfire 
were retrieving from the third party insurer  it was money Mr M paid to Skyfire when he 
renewed his policy. And so, I cant see any reason at all why it wasnt refunded immediately 
after the court case was settled in mid-2019, when Skyfire knew Mr M wasnt at fault for the 
accident.
Putting things right
Ive set out these events in some detail because its important to recognise the full extent of 
the failures in the service provided to Mr M by Skyfire. 
Summarising these failings as a number of delays, failures to update Mr M and failures to 
respond to his requests for information wouldnt do justice to it  and might leave open to 
question why our investigator thought £500 was fair and reasonable compensation.
Ive taken a number of factors into account in coming to my decision. Mr M was involved in 
an accident, through no fault of his own according to the court, in March 2018. He was 
almost immediately £350 out of pocket (the excess). And a further £350 plus down when he 
renewed his policy. 
Hes been without that money for a significant amount of time. And hes had the stress and 
worry of not knowing whether he would get it back  for a prolonged period of time.
He got roughly half of that money (the excess) back only after 25 months or so  more than 
two years after the accident. And despite a recognition that he should get the other half (the 
refunded part of the premium), he had yet to get that back at the time he brought his 
complaint to our service. 
During that period of over two years, Mr M had to chase Skyfire for an update on progress or 
for information at every turn. I have no doubt hes found that both inconvenient and stressful. 
And thats been exacerbated when his contacts have been ignored, or when he was 
promised responses or call backs and never got them. Its easy to see why Mr M might have despaired of ever getting his money back  or getting a considered and reasonable 
response from Skyfire.
When I take the long delays in to account  and the time between any significant action on 
the case by Skyfire  and the amount of stress and inconvenience caused to Mr M for that 
length of time, Im satisfied that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for Mr Ms trouble 
and upset.
Finally, I should add that because I think Mr Ms additional premium payment should have 
been refunded in June 2019, once it was clear the court had decided he wasnt at fault, Im 
going to ask Skyfire to pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on that amount, from the end of 
June 2019. In my view, Mr M has been deprived of that money, for that period of time, as a 
result of Skyfires errors or omissions.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr M:
£368.74 to fully refund the additional premium he paid when he renewed his policy;
Interest on that amount, at 8% simple, from the end of June 2019 to the date the 
payment Is made*; and
£500 in compensation for Mr Ms trouble and upset.
* If Skyfire Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman