DRN-3753746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a points-based timeshare product and the 
loan used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook). 
Mr and Mrs B have been represented by a claims management business which Ill call F. 
Where I refer to Mr and Mrs Bs submissions, therefore, I include those made on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have been members of Diamond Resorts International, a timeshare and 
holiday club business, since 2014. In that time, they have made the following transactions:
On 30 May 2014 they bought 9,000 fractional points at a price of £8,440, paid for by 
bank transfer.
On 1 June 2015 they bought 8,000 fractional points at a price of £8,560 funded with a 
loan from Shawbrook.
On 1 September 2015 they bought 7,000 Balkan Jewel fractional points for £4,375, 
funded with a loan from Shawbrook.
On 15 July 2016 they bought 8,000 European points for £7,950, funded with a loan 
from Shawbrook.
On 13 June 2017 they bought 22,000 European points for £21,974 funded with a 10-
year loan from Shawbrook.
This complaint concerns only the June 2017 purchase from Diamond Resorts (Europe) 
Limited (DRL). The purchase was funded with a 10-year loan from Shawbrook. Points 
could be exchanged for holidays, holiday accommodation and other experiences, at a range 
of resorts. The points which Mr and Mrs B bought in June 2017, together with those they 
already had, entitled them to the highest level of membership, which, according to the clubs 
literature, gave them the possibility of booking larger properties and taking longer holidays 
than those people with other levels of membership. They could also take holidays in peak 
periods.
In early 2022 F complained to Shawbrook on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. F said that the points 
had been mis-sold because of misrepresentations made by DRL, because the commission 
paid to Shawbrook had not been disclosed and because of pressured sales tactics. The 
areas of complaint have since been expanded and now include, in summary:
Shawbrook did not carry out appropriate affordability checks before the loan was 
agreed.
Commission paid by Shawbrook had not been disclosed.
DRL had used aggressive sales tactics. 
Availability of accommodation was very limited, contrary to what Mr and Mrs B had been 
led to believe.
Mr and Mrs B had not been given any choice of lender.
The contract was, in effect, in perpetuity.
Management fees had not been properly disclosed.   
The timeshare product had been sold as an investment. 
It was not necessary for Mr and Mrs B to buy additional points.
Shawbrook did not accept Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. When F referred the matter to this 
service, our investigator considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. F asked that an ombudsman review the case.         
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
In making this complaint on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, I note that F has not provided a 
complete set of sale documents, only a one-page document which records little more than 
the number of points purchased, the price, and the parties to the agreement. Shawbrook, F 
and I are familiar with DRLs standard terms in use at the time, however, so I have 
proceeded on the assumption that the contract here incorporated those terms. If Mr and Mrs 
B agreed to something different, F will be able to provide the terms they agreed to when 
responding to this provisional decision. 
 Affordability and suitability checks
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that Shawbrook had not carried out any 
checks to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr and Mrs Bs needs. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs B had not been given any choice about the lender they used. 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. Shawbrook said that it carried out appropriate credit 
checks in this case, noting that this was not a case of high cost short-term (or payday) 
lending, where stricter rules apply.  
I note that Mr and Mrs B have not suggested that they had any difficulty in making the loan 
repayments. When they took the loan out, they would have signed a statement confirming 
that they were able to meet the financial commitments involved. That does not necessarily 
mean that they were able to do so, or that they will continue to be able to do so for the length 
of the loan. Nor does it mean that proper checks were carried out. However, if part of their 
complaint is about affordability, I would expect their submissions to include some information 
about the effect the alleged lack of checks has had on them. I do not believe I can properly 
uphold this part of the complaint on the basis of a mere assertion that checks were not 
carried out.   
Mr and Mrs B would also have confirmed that they understood that DRL, which arranged the 
loan, was not independent. 
There is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B had to take out the loan with Shawbrook. 
They could have taken out a loan independently from a different lender, but, had they done 
so, they would not have the protections available under, for example, sections 56, 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which I discuss below.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership points and 
that it was arranged by DRL. I must therefore consider Mr and Mrs Bs claims about what 
they were told before they made the purchase.     
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they were misled about the availability of holiday accommodation. 
I note however that DRL has identified only one occasion on which Mr and Mrs B were 
unable to book the accommodation they wanted at the time they wanted it. That was for 
accommodation with limited availability provided by a third party. Mr and Mrs B have 
provided no information about any other unsuccessful attempts they might have made to 
book accommodation. That does not suggest to me that there was a systemic problem. 
Having been club members since 2014, I think that Mr and Mrs B would have been familiar 
with the booking system and would have understood that there might be times when their 
first choice of accommodation and weeks might not be available. They were more likely to 
have relied on their own experience in that area than on anything they were told in the 
presentation in June 2017.     
I note as well that the standard terms of the sale contract included, at clause 6:
The terms of this agreement and the documents in it form the entire agreement between us. 
We intend to rely on these written terms. If you require any changes or have relied on verbal 
promises please ask for these to be put in writing. If anything is said to you which you do not 
understand, or which is particularly important to you but which is not contained in these 
terms, please query it before you sign or before your cancellation period expires.
Mr and Mrs B would have signed the contract on the same page. They also would have 
signed DRLs separate customer compliance statement, which included, immediately above 
their signature: 
We understand that this document, the Purchase Agreement and the documents referred to 
in it form the entire agreement between the parties. We confirm that no oral or written 
representations have been made to us upon which we have relied and which are either not 
contained in the documentation presented to us today or noted by us in the comments box.  
Neither of these statements is in my view conclusive proof that no misrepresentations were 
made. They are however quite persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs B were not misled by 
any untrue statements into making the purchase.  
F says that Mr and Mrs B were told their points were an investment. Clause 5 of DRLs 
standard contract said however that the points should not be thought of as an investment. In 
addition, he customer compliance statement said that there was no resale or buyback 
programme for points, but that Mr and Mrs B could sell them privately (paragraph 14).  For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would uphold a claim for misrepresentation 
against DRL. It follows that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Bs claims under section 
56 and section 75 was reasonable. 
Unfair relationship 
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account connected agreements. I am satisfied that the 
contract with DRL was a connected agreement in this case. 
For the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that Mr and Mrs B were misled about the 
terms of the sale contract. The standard customer compliance statement also included:
We confirm that we have read the purchase agreement and key information document, 
together with our finance agreement  and are happy to proceed with our purchase.  
It would have included as well a statement in which Mr and Mrs B confirmed that they had 
not been pressured into the purchase. If they had signed that statement and it had not been 
true, they had 14 days in which to withdraw from the agreement. They did not do so.
Mr and Mrs B would have also signed a compliance statement in relation to the loan 
agreement. It confirmed, amongst other things, that they had been provided with a copy of 
the agreement, that the repayments were affordable, that the key features had been 
explained and that the loan met their needs and requirements. Again, that does not prove 
conclusively that the statements in the declaration were true, but I believe it constitutes very 
strong and persuasive evidence that they were  especially given the cooling-off period and 
Mr and Mrs Bs familiarity with both the club and with Shawbrook.
F says too that the timeshare agreement was set to end in 2054, and that this means that it 
is in effect a contract in perpetuity. If, however, Mr and Mrs B were concerned that the club 
would remain in existence until 2054, it is not clear to me why they chose to be members. 
The reference to the end date was clearly set out in the contract. In any event, there are 
provisions which may enable members to resign their membership in certain circumstances 
 including illness and retirement. 
In addition, F says that the management fees were not disclosed in a clear manner, as 
required by relevant regulations. The information provided to Mr and Mrs B did however 
include a statement setting out how fees were calculated and what they covered. Given the 
varying nature and range of elements that make up management fees, it would have been 
impossible to provide exact figures for the duration of the membership. I think however that 
Mr and Mrs B were given information about how they would be calculated. I note too that, as 
existing members, they had some experience of how the management fee operated in 
practice.      
Finally, Mr and Mrs B say that DRL failed to disclose the commission that it received from 
Shawbrook. Clause 18 of the standard customer compliance statement said that DRL was 
entitled to receive a commission. I have no reason to think that, had Mr and Mrs B asked 
about the level of that commission, they would have been told what it was. Typical amounts 
of commission paid by lenders in cases such as this were unlikely to be much more than 
10%. So, even if the level of commission had been disclosed, it is not clear that Mr and Mrs 
B would have acted any differently.       In any event, I dont think the fact that Shawbrook might have paid DRL commission was 
incompatible with its role in the transaction. DRL wasnt acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs B 
but as the supplier of contractual rights under the sale agreement. And it does not appear 
that DRLs role [was] to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr 
and Mrs B advice or information on that basis.
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under sections 140A and 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act.  
Conclusions 
I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were misled about the terms of the sale contract or 
about the membership itself. Nor am I persuaded that Shawbrook failed to assess the 
affordability of the loan. 
I stress however that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs B have a claim against 
DRL, or whether they might therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. Nor can I make orders under sections 140A and 140A  only a court can decide 
that a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr and Bs 
complaint. In doing that, I must take into account any relevant law  including relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. Having done that, however, I think that Shawbrooks 
response to Mr and Mrs Bs claims was fair and reasonable.    
Mr and Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision 
In response to my provisional decision, F submitted further documents and made further 
submissions. The documents fall into four broad categories. They are:
documents concerning the earlier sales and loans;
statements from former employees of Diamond Resorts companies;
statements from other clients of F; and 
a copy of the recent judgment in which two decisions of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and concerning similar issues were judicially reviewed  cited as [2023] EWHC 
1069.   
In its further submissions F said, in summary:
Shawbrook was guilty of churning  that is, selling timeshare products in the 
knowledge that they would not meet customers expectations and with the intention of 
selling further products in the future. 
Given Mr and Mrs Bs existing holdings, there was no need for them to buy more points; 
doing so did not improve their position. 
Mr and Mrs Bs previous experience of holding European Collection Points was too 
recent for them to have been aware of the pitfalls of the scheme. 
Most clients would exchange points-based timeshares for fractional ownership 
arrangements, because it gave them a fixed period of club membership and the 
possibility of obtaining some return when properties were sold. It made no sense 
however for an existing fractional ownership member to buy non-fractional points.  
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(the Timeshare Regulations) require that information be provided in good time before the conclusion of a timeshare contract. Mr and Mrs B had to sign up on the same day, 
however. 
DRL had a conflict of interest in selling the points to Mr and Mrs B, while at the same 
time advising on the finance agreement. 
The provisional decision did not take sufficient account of the evidence that Mr and Mrs 
B were told that there would be improved availability of accommodation or that resorts 
were exclusive.
The sales materials provided to this service bear little resemblance to what customers 
were told. 
The entire agreement clauses were exclusion clauses which should have been 
brought to Mr and Mrs Bs attention. 
The provisional decision appears to overlook the fact that many customers have 
reported similar problems with the sales process. 
The ombudsman is required to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in their 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That is a subjective test.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the subjective nature of an ombudsmans determination. I agree with 
Fs comments on this point; indeed, the basis on which I must determine this complaint is a 
statutory one set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and in our rules. I must 
do so by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The 
effect is that an ombudsman wont necessarily reach the same conclusions about a 
complaint as a court would have done. They might be more or less favourable to the 
complainant.
I note what has been said generally about how DRL is said to have operated. I have no 
doubt that its representatives were incentivised to obtain sales and that they targeted 
existing timeshare owners to buy further products or upgrades. I accept too that, as a result, 
customers may have been encouraged to buy products that they did not necessarily need 
and that they would not have bought without that encouragement. My role in determining Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint is not however to investigate the general practices of DRL; it is to 
decide what, in my opinion, is a fair and reasonable resolution. 
It may well be that the purchase of points in June 2017 was an unwise one, or that those 
points represented poor value for money. I dont believe however that, of itself, is a reason to 
uphold the complaint about Shawbrook. It had no obligation to review the sale to ensure it 
understood what Mr and Mrs B were buying and why; nor did it have to ensure the purchase 
was suitable for their needs, still less that it was necessary. Its obligations under, for 
example, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act were rather more limited than that. 
I accept as well that its likely that DRLs sales team was under pressure to ensure that 
customers signed sales agreements on the day. But those customers who did sign on the 
day had 14 days in which to consider their position. That is an important protection in the 
Timeshare Regulations which addresses in part the risk of customers being rushed into 
agreements. Because of it, Mr and Mrs Bs contract was not binding on them until 14 days 
after they signed it. I do not believe either there was any conflict of interest here. DRLs interest was in selling 
timeshare points, not in providing financial advice to Mr and Mrs B. It was not acting as their 
agent, representative, or adviser. Of course, the sale was regulated by the Timeshare 
Regulations (and other consumer protection legislation), but DRL had no overriding or 
general obligation to act in Mr and Mrs Bs interests. 
I note what F says about the entire agreement clause. It is certainly arguable that it 
operated as an exclusion clause and that it should therefore have been brought to Mr and 
Mrs Bs attention. But they signed a compliance statement saying much the same thing. In 
my view, that is quite compelling evidence that the clause was brought to their attention. The 
effect of that is to make less reliable the evidence that they relied on matters not in the 
contract when deciding whether to buy the points. 
In response to my provisional decision F submitted statements from other clients who bought 
Diamond Resorts timeshare products, as well as statements from former employees. None 
of the individuals who has signed those statements was however a witness to Mr and Mrs 
Bs experiences. To that extent, therefore, the statements are of limited assistance.    
Having considered the case in its entirety, including Fs further submissions and evidence, I 
am not therefore persuaded that I should change my conclusions from those set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman