DRN-2510534
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) require him to 
declare any incident hes involved in under the terms of his motor insurance policy even if he 
doesnt want to make a claim. Mr P says this is unfair and would have an impact on his 
premium.
I note Admiral responded to a number of other issues Mr P raised in its final response. But 
the issue set out above is the only issue specifically raised by Mr P with this service, so is 
the only issue dealt with in this decision. 
What happened
Mr P is named on two policies with Admiral, a private multicar policy and a commercial 
policy. In 2019 Mr P had two incidents whilst driving his van. He didnt submit a claim for 
either incident.
Admiral says it constantly reviews policies and it became aware of the incidents. Admiral 
said Mr P was required to report the incidents and it had to log them as incidents, as they 
had happened. It said that his van policy seemed to be correct, and the incidents had been 
recorded. But he would need to update his car policy separately. 
But Mr P doesnt believe he had to declare either incident. Mr P didnt think this was fair and 
he complained. At that point Admiral realised it had made an error whilst renewing Mr Ps 
van policy and that it hadnt actually asked him a clear question about convictions, claims or 
incidents, when he spoke to them via telephone. So, it agreed to refund the additional 
premium the incidents had generated on this policy only, which amounted to £240.39. But 
Admiral still insisted that the incidents needed to be declared, and it asked Mr P to correct 
the information on his all policies.
But Mr P doesnt agree. He says he should only be required to let the insurer know about an 
incident if he wants to make a claim. He says when not making a claim, the only benefit is to 
the insurance company. He says there is no benefit to him as the insured and says the 
insurer is coercing the policyholder into admitting to something that has not in any way had a 
detrimental effect on the insurer. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be 
upheld. The investigator said that the policy set out that Mr P needed to report any incidents. 
The investigator thought the incidents had been correctly recorded on CUE as notification 
only and also thought Admiral had made it clear. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I dont uphold this complaint for basically 
the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy require him to report any incidents, even if he
doesnt claim. This isnt an unusual term. When an incident is reported, Admiral is required 
to record what happened on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). In this case Admiral 
recorded the incidents as notification only which is the way it needs to record incidents that 
have happened, but where no claim has been made.
I can understand why this is frustrating for Mr P. He says that by having to declare an 
incident where no claim was made is of no benefit to the consumer and an incident where no 
claim is being made has no detrimental effect on an insurer. He says its not clear that all 
incidents have to be declared, and hes disappointed that we as an ombudsman cant 
challenge how this can be allowed. 
Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but most are. But if an insurer is signed up, its 
obliged to record an accurate representation of a customers driving history. And this means 
recording all incidents, whether a claim is made or not. It needs to record whether the 
incident is deemed to be fault  bonus not allowed; non-fault  bonus allowed; or just a 
notification of an incident.
Different insurers will price their policies according to different risk factors. And some 
insurers think the driver is a higher risk when theres been an incident, even if that driver 
didnt claim and wasnt at fault. Other insurers may choose not to use this information in 
order to calculate its premium. But the correct thing is to record it and for the insurer to 
decide whether it impacts its premium calculations or not. It is up to an insurer to decide 
what factors it does and doesnt want to rate a driver on.
And thats whats happened here. Mr P had two incidents, neither of which were claimed for, 
but both were recordable incidents. Admiral didnt do anything wrong by recording the 
incidents correctly. In fact, as a subscriber with access to CUE, it was obliged to do just that. 
And if Admiral decides to use this information when calculating its premium, its free to do so. 
So, it hasnt done anything wrong. 
Mr P also argues that the policy terms and conditions dont expressly say that as a customer 
you are obliged to declare all incidents. He says its a grey area and not clear. But when 
you are taking out a policy an insurer will ask a series of questions. If you are renewing, the 
insurer will then ask you look at your previous answers and to confirm that your 
circumstances havent changed in the preceding 12 months and that these answers remain 
accurate. Usually this will include a question about claims, accidents and incidents, whether 
claimed for or not. And under The Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 
2012 (CIDRA), customers are expected to answer questions to the best of their knowledge 
and belief. If a question is asked about incidents (and it usually is), then its up to the 
customer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering it or 
confirming the answers theyve previously given. 
So, I dont agree that this is a grey area nor is it not clear. And even though Mr P doesnt 
agree that he has to declare incidents that havent resulted in claims, under CIDRA, Mr P is 
obliged to take reasonable care when answering the question. And if he was asked whether 
he was involved in any incidents (whether they resulted in a claim or not) hes obliged to take 
reasonable care with his answer. 
I appreciate this is not something weve investigated in this specific case as Admiral has 
admitted it didnt specifically ask this question at renewal. And because of this it has 
refunded to Mr P the additional premium it charged him at the time. But this doesnt mean incidents dont have to be declared when asked. Under CIDRA, Mr P is obliged to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering any question he is asked.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, as I recognise his strength of feeling
about this. But I can see that Admiral has acknowledged its error, and compensated Mr P for 
it. I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong by asking Mr P to declare any incidents, so 
Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman