DRN-4284244
The complaint
A company which Ill call C complains that Santander UK Plc behaved unreasonably when 
completing its banking checks.
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by one of its directors, Mr J.
What happened
C held a business current account with Santander. In May 2022, Santander asked C for 
identification documents and information about their business as it needed to complete its 
Know Your Customer (KYC) checks.
C told us:
It provided the information Santander requested on several occasions (including 
taking the information to a local branch) and the bank accepted everything except 
their company charter, which had been certified by their accountant, who was also a 
member of their family.
A representative had called the bank in May to ask if this was acceptable, and had 
been told it was fine, but C should note that its accountant was a relative. 
Mr J received an email from Santander on 11 July 2022 saying that the certified 
charter was required, however he thought this had crossed over with the phone call 
with the bank, so he didnt take any action.
When its representative called the bank about the account restriction in July, the call 
handler had been unhelpful and provided poor customer service. Cs directors also 
thought the bank had acted unfairly due to the information requested, as this was 
available on Companies House.
Santander told us:
It requested KYC documents from C on 21 October 2021 as the information it held 
was out of date. The company responded shortly after however, it couldnt accept 
some of the documents C had provided. 
It contacted C a further four times before the deadline of 16 May, and when this 
wasnt received, it restricted the companys account on 19 July in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
C contacted it on 19 July, and it removed the restriction on 27July pending receipt of 
the requested information. It wasnt able to obtain the information required from 
Companies House as stated by C, as this needed to be independently verified. 
It had offered C £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused when the 
company had been given incorrect information over the phone in May. However, it 
thought the call handler in July had given C correct information  although it 
acknowledged this could have been provided in a more empathetic way. 
Our investigator thought Santander had made a mistake in giving C incorrect information 
initially about what it needed for its KYC check. However he thought that it was reasonable 
for Santander to restrict Cs account when it didnt receive the information it required, and it 
had contacted C on several occasions to try and discuss this but hadnt received what was 
requested. So he thought the banks offer of £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused was enough to put things right. 
C didnt agree and said after the director had been given the incorrect information, they went 
on holiday, so the bank should have done more to assist them. They also said £250 didnt 
cover the costs C had incurred, so they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Santanders offer to put things right is fair. Ill explain why.
Cs representatives say that Santander treated them unfairly when it restricted access to 
their account, but I dont agree. I can see that the bank requested documents from C on five 
occasions between October 2021 and May 2022 and that it didnt receive this in the required 
format. I recognise that C may have found it frustrating to provide information they believe 
was publicly available on Companies House. However, under Santanders legal and 
regulatory obligations, the bank is expected to hold accurate information about its 
customers. In this case, I can see that Santander told C that it was reviewing its customer 
information as part of its checks to ensure the details it held were up to date and that it 
needed independently verified documents to meet this requirement. So I think it was 
reasonable for Santander to request this information. 
Furthermore, as the information that C provided wasnt suitable to meet Santanders 
requirements, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to restrict Cs accounts. I say this 
because this was in line with the terms and conditions of Cs account with the bank and Ive 
seen that Santander wrote and explained to C on several occasions from October 2021 
onwards to say if the correct information wasnt received within 60 days the account would 
be restricted. However, despite all the banks requirements not being met, it wasnt until 19 
July that Santander actually restricted Cs accounts, so I dont think the bank acted unfairly.
  
Its not disputed by either party that Santander gave Mr J incorrect information when he 
called it on 9 May. However, Ive seen that the bank tried to contact C on several occasions 
by phone after this call had taken place in attempt to correct this error  including at times 
requested by Mr J. And whilst I acknowledge that Mr J says he thought the banks first 
follow-up request for documentation on 12 May had crossed over with this call, I think its 
reasonable to believe that after the subsequent contact from the bank was received, that Cs 
directors ought to have been aware that they needed to either provide the updated 
documentation which was still outstanding on the customer portal or contact the bank to 
query why C was still receiving ongoing communication from the bank. 
I acknowledge that Mr J says he was abroad after hed had the call with the bank on 9 May 
so wasnt aware after this that there was an issue. However, given that C has other directors 
and contacts, I think its reasonable to believe that one of them could have contacted the 
bank to query the correspondence and calls C was receiving about the account or take the 
call on 18 May as requested by Mr J. I think its also worth noting here, that Mr J told us that he did receive the contact from Santander but ignored this as he thought what hed been told 
originally was correct. Ive also seen that the bank removed the restriction on Cs account 
quickly once the company contacted the bank to explain what had happened. So I cant 
reasonably say that Santander treated C unfairly here.
 
Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and I can see that 
Santander has apologised for giving Mr J incorrect information and for the tone of the 
subsequent call on 27 July and offered C £250 for the inconvenience caused. Given that I 
dont think Santander acted unreasonably in restricting Cs account initially, I think its done 
enough to put things right.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman