DRN-2296245
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly refused 
to pay her claim under her pet policy. 
References to Red Sands includes all its agents. As Red Sands is the underwriter of this 
policy it is responsible for the claims decisions, therefore its correct that I refer only to it.
Ms P is also represented by her husband Mr P, but for ease of reference I shall simply refer 
to Ms P throughout. 
  
What happened
Ms P took out a policy with Red Sands on line for her dog on 17 October 2019 with a start 
date of 18 October 2019. 
Her dog started limping on 27 October 2019, as it didnt resolve she took her dog to an 
emergency vet on 1 November 2019. X-rays were taken on 7 November 2019 and Ms Ps 
vet sent them off to a specialist orthopaedic vet for analysis. That vet said the x-ray showed 
signs sentinel for left CCL (cranial cruciate ligament) disease and advised Ms Ps dog 
underwent a TPLO operation (tibial plateau levelling osteotomy) to fix it. 
Ms P submitted a claim for limping to Red Sands on 10 December 2019 in the sum of 
£467.75. Which Red Sands accepted and paid on 24 January 2020, except for £72 which it 
said it didnt understand what that was for. It later said this claim was paid in error and given 
that that it wasnt asking Ms P to refund its payment. At that time, it imposed an exclusion 
concerning the left leg lameness from the start date of the policy.
In the meantime, Ms P submitted a pre-authorisation claim for the TPLO surgery on 17 
January 2020. Red Sands didnt make any decision on that until 7 February 2020 when it 
refused to consider it, because her dogs condition started within the first 14 days of cover of 
the policy.
Ms P disputed this, but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So, Ms P brought her 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Red Sands hadnt done anything 
wrong in refusing to pay Ms Ps claim. But she thought Red Sands overly delayed in coming 
to its decision and so should pay Ms P £200 compensation.
Ms P didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint but for the payment of compensation from 
Red Sands to Ms P. Ill now explain why.
My role and that of this service is to assess if Red sands did anything wrong on the basis of 
the evidence presented to it by the vet history, Ms Ps vet, plus any specialist vets. 
Its very well established sadly, that dogs can suffer CCL and that it is a disease process 
more often, rather than trauma induced. And that it requires the type of operation Ms Ps vet 
and her specialist vet recommended. Specialist vet practices throughout the UK detail this 
on their websites as a matter of course, so the explanation of the disease process is in the 
public domain. 
The starting point in this complaint is the specialist orthopaedic opinion of a member of the 
vet team dealing with Ms Ps dog, so before any involvement of Red Sands or its own 
internal vet specialists. The specialist vet was instructed by Ms Ps own vet to interpret and 
give an opinion on the x-ray. He clearly said on 7 November 2019, that his interpretation of 
the x-ray showed the changes were sentinel for left Cranial Cruciate Ligament Disease.
This shows me that from the start, from what was shown on the x-ray and from a specialist 
vet instructed by Ms Ps own vet, that he thought cruciate ligament disease rather than 
trauma was the reason for this claim. I consider this to be very significant. I find it far less 
persuasive that Ms Ps own vet then goes on to say she talked with this specialist vet who 
also performed the surgery who then said it can also be a consequence to a traumatic 
injury. Without corroboration of the actual vet himself that he wanted to say this given his 
initial report on the x-ray above, I dont consider it adds much, if anything at all. It should also  
be noted that there is no further evidence submitted by this specialist vet who also 
performed the operation on this dog. He hasnt been involved in the subsequent discussions 
and Ms P has sought subsequent opinions elsewhere instead.
However, I remain more persuaded by the explanation given by Red Sands consultant vet 
who explains that the way the claim was expressed on the claim form was unusual given it 
merely was a list of radiological features and not an actual diagnosis. The claim was 
expressed as tibial effusion plateau enthesophytosis. That vet explains that effusion simply 
means excess joint fluid which would occur with an inflammatory process in the stifle. This is 
present in degenerated cruciate ligaments, but isnt specific only to cruciate disease. 
However, he goes on to say enthesophytes are a specific form of degenerative joint 
disease, which are projections of bone that form at the attachment point of a ligament or 
tendon. And they indicate that the associated ligament is chronically inflamed. Here because 
the cruciate ligaments attach to the tibial plateau where the enthesophytes are found on Ms 
Ps dog, this means her dogs cruciate ligaments are degenerating. He goes on to explain 
that the formation of new bone like this requires time and persistent chronic strain, so that 
means enthesophytes wouldnt be present with an acute traumatic event. So, the presence 
of enthesophytes is evidence of a degenerative process occurring over time. Ms Ps vets has 
offered no other evidence to explain the presence of these enthesophytes. Therefore, I 
consider there is no medical evidence to show this was a traumatic event but rather all the 
medical evidence points to it being a disease degeneration.
Even the second opinion sought by Ms P says the following:
Generally, a degenerative disease where the CCL weakens over a
period of time (often asymtomatically) before some traumatic event that
triggers clinical signs. The most likely scenario for [name of dog] is that he had 
asymptomatic degenerative changes associated with his CCL and stifle that the 
owner could not have known about.This also fails however to deal with the presence of the enthesophytes too, which Red 
Sands vet believes can only happen over time and Im persuaded by that as they wouldnt 
exist in this dog otherwise.
Theres also no dispute that the vet history recorded Ms Ps dog presented at the vet with 
limping on his left hind leg on 27 October 2019 and 29 October 2019. And Ms P took her dog 
to the emergency vet on 1 November 2019 when the limping hadnt resolved. Ms P detailed 
herself (as explained in the investigators view) that the limping did improve after rest on both 
27 and 29 October but didnt on 1 November. I agree with the investigators view that such 
intermittent limping would be far more indicative of disease process rather than a trauma 
incidence too. 
So here we have Ms Ps dog limping on day nine after the policy started, then day 11 with 
the emergency vet attendance on day 14.
 
Red Sands policy in common with virtually every other pet policy on the market doesnt 
cover claims for accidents within the first five days of the policy starting. And it doesnt cover 
claims for illnesses within the first 14 days of the policy starting. However, this policy goes 
further and also excludes any accident or injury affecting the Cruciate ligament within 14 
days of the commencement of the policy.  Ms P in her correspondence with us believes this 
clause excludes claims for traumatic CCL, meaning that the claim needs to be made within 
14 days. However, the clause doesnt say claims it merely says the wording Ive detailed 
above. Also, there is simply no dispute this dogs problems started with the limping on day 9 
of the policy starting so whether it was trauma or rather a disease process this dog became 
symptomatic with this CCL issue on day 9 of the policy starting.
Illness is defined as sickness, disease, infection or any change in your pets normal healthy 
state which is not caused by injury. And injury is defined as damage to one or more parts of 
your pets body as a result of an accidental cause.
  
So irrespective of whether the cause of the claim was traumatic or degenerative, it still isnt 
covered by this policy because it started within 14 days of the policy starting, as traumatic 
CCL issues are also excluded if they occur within the first 14 days along with something 
caused by a disease process.  So, to conclude I dont consider Red Sands did anything 
wrong in deciding not to consider or pay this claim.
Like the investigator however, I do consider Red Sands overly delayed more so since Ms P 
went to the trouble of submitting a pre-authorisation claim too. As the investigator detailed in 
her view the delay was considerable. The delay was also acknowledged in Red Sands final 
response letter. I also dont consider it useful or reasonable that Red Sands queried the 
dogs behavioural issues right before the operation was to take place. All in all, I do consider 
compensation is warranted and I consider the amount of £200 compensation suggested by 
the investigator to be reasonable and in line with other awards Ive made in similar 
circumstances.
 
Lastly given the claim for limping was paid in error by Red Sands, I find theres no duty for it 
now to pay the remaining £72 of that claim either.
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for the payment of 
compensation only.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Ms P the sum of £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset its delay in dealing with Ms Ps claim caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman