DRN-3357839
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr A had storage units with a company that I will call Company S. Initially, he entered into a 
licence to use one storage unit, but this was later changed to two, with the original 
paperwork being amended to reflect this. Unfortunately, in 2019 there was a flood and some 
of Mr As possessions were damaged. This included sentimental items.
Mr A brought a claim to Santander, under section 75. He said that Company S had 
misrepresented the storage agreement, because he had been (incorrectly) told his 
possessions would be covered by his home insurance policy. He also feels that Company S 
has subsequently falsified documents, so they do not represent the contract he actually 
entered into. Further, he feels he should have been provided with an entirely new contract 
when he increased his storage space.
As Santander declined Mr As claim, he brought a complaint to us. To resolve things, he 
would like Santander to refund some of his storage fees and pay to replace the damaged 
possessions. He would also like £500 compensation for the way Santander handled his 
claim. Santander did acknowledge that this could have gone better, and offered Mr A £200 in 
recognition of this. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He did not think Santander had 
been unfair when it declined Mr As claim. He also thought the £200 Santander had offered 
for its handling of his claim was fair.
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he said that the documents relied upon by the investigator 
have been falsified. He explained he has original documentation in his possession, and 
metadata he has stored, to support his complaint. This was not provided by Mr A.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr A has been badly affected by what has happened, and fully understand 
why. Damage and loss of possessions, particularly sentimental ones, is traumatic. I would 
like to assure Mr A that I have carefully considered all of the information provided. I know 
that this be very disappointing, but I agree with the investigator. I will explain why.  
In certain circumstances, section 75 allows a customer to claim a refund of money equally 
against the finance provider (Santander, due to Mr A making payments on his credit card) as 
against the supplier (Company S). And then it is for Santander to consider whether there 
was a breach of contract, or misrepresentation by Company S.
I must explain that I am not deciding Santanders liability under section 75. Rather, it is my 
role to take into account the relevant law - and that includes section 75. I decide cases by 
considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires me to do. What I am deciding is 
whether Santander did enough in considering Mr As claim.
We have been provided with a considerable amount of contractual documents. Mr A says 
that he has more to add, to show their inaccuracy.  He has not done so, and I have no 
reason to believe the documents I have on file are falsified. Nor do I think there is anything 
unusual about a contract being updated  this is standard practice. I am also aware that all 
of the original documentation was not available, so standard terms were provided. I have no 
reason to think they were not the ones Mr A had. Company S is a large company, with very 
standard terms. I know Mr A has explained he has metadata and other evidence that this 
was not what happened, but he has not provided it. So, I do not have any evidence that 
would change my mind.
As the investigator set out, there are contractual terms and conditions relating to flooding, 
which we have seen. These mean that Company S would not have been liable for the 
damage resulting from this flood, as liability was excluded for such an event.
I have also considered the issue of what was agreed about insurance. Mr A has said that 
Company S told him that his home insurance would cover his possessions in storage. This 
did not turn out to be the case. It is impossible for me to know what exactly was said. So, Ive 
looked at the evidence I have. Mr A signed the own insurance declaration, which said he 
had his own insurance and did not need that of Company S. It also said Company S
had not advised about the suitability of the policy.
For these reasons, I do not think Santander was wrong to decline Mr As section 75 claim.
Finally, I have looked at the customer service Santander provided. I agree that things could 
ideally have been better. Santanders call handler hung up, before saying he may do so. 
Santander offered £200 compensation for this. I consider this to be very fair, so am not 
requiring more.
My final decision
My final decision is that the £200 Santander UK Plc offered in resolution of this complaint is 
fair. I leave it to Mr A to decide whether or not to accept this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman