DRN-4061026
The complaint
Mr A complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim under 
his motor insurance policy and cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident, and he claimed under his policy. Watford 
Insurances engineer inspected the damage and noticed that Mr As car had been modified 
by a rear spoiler and tinted windows. Watford Insurance said that Mr A hadnt told them 
about these modifications when he took out the policy and, if he had, they wouldnt have 
insured him at all. So they declined his claim for the damage to his car or the third-party 
damage because of his misrepresentation. They also cancelled his policy. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She agreed that Mr A had 
made a misrepresentation. But she also thought Watford Insurance hadnt treated Mr A fairly 
in that theyd cancelled his policy rather than treated it as void from the outset, and so they 
should consider his claim under the policy and pay the third-party claim costs. 
Watford Insurance didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Watford Insurance said Mr A had made a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, Ive 
looked at the relevant law. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) says that a consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. If a consumer doesnt do this, 
Watford Insurance as the insurer can take certain actions as long as the misrepresentation is 
a qualifying one. Ive looked into whether Mr A took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, whether the misrepresentation was qualifying, and whether Watford 
Insurances actions were in line with CIDRA.
Reasonable care
Watford Insurance said Mr A didnt take reasonable care when he applied for his policy via 
an online insurance comparison site in that he didnt disclose that his car had modifications. 
They said hed made a reckless qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.  
Ive looked at the question that comparison site asked him. It said, Does the car have any 
modifications?. Mr A answered no. 
Next to the question was the explanation Help: Modifications are non-standard changes 
made to the car after manufacture. These include new spoilers, alloy wheels etc but a tow 
bar doesn't need to be listed. 
Underneath it says Please detail which modifications have been made to the car? There 
was then a list of several different types of modifications, and that included spoilers. 
So I think the question asked of Mr A was clear and specific. 
What would Watford Insurance have done had they known the correct information?
 
Watford Insurance have shown us their underwriting criteria that confirm they wouldnt have 
insured Mr A at all if hed answered the question correctly and declared the modifications. So 
Im satisfied that this misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Was the qualifying misrepresentation deliberate/reckless or careless?
Mr A said he hadnt made a misrepresentation. He said as follows. Hed bought his car like 
that and didnt know it had been modified. If he had, he would have declared it, as he had no 
reason to lie. He had declared his speeding convictions and accident history, so it made no 
sense for him to disclose those things but not the modifications. Watford Insurance were 
punishing him for something outside of his control or knowledge. The modifications were 
more aesthetic than performance related and Watford Insurance were using them as an 
excuse to avoid paying for his car and the damage. However its a commercial decision for 
Watford Insurance  to decide if they want to cover modifications or not, and when a 
consumer takes out that insurance they have agreed to its terms, so it doesnt matter if they 
dont agree with their reasons.
But Watford Insurance said the modification questions asked of Mr A were clear. His cars 
modifications were visible, and he should have been reasonably aware that a rear spoiler 
and tinted windows would not have been standard features on his car. If he wasnt sure he 
could have asked Watford Insurance. And so he didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said his car had no modifications and had made a reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
Mr A has referred us to cases where this Service has agreed that someone might not have 
any reason to think that a car had been modified, and so not declare it. But each case 
depends on its own facts. In this case, I think that a car having rear spoiler and tinted 
windows should have alerted Mr A to the possibility of modifications, and he should have 
checked that with Watford Insurance. 
But although Watford Insurance deemed it a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, I think it 
was careless rather than reckless. This is because I dont think Mr A intended to deceive 
Watford Insurance. 
Nevertheless a careless misrepresentation is still a qualifying one for CIDRA, and it still 
entitles Watford Insurance to avoid the policy as they have shown that they wouldnt have 
offered cover at all without the misrepresentation. So under CIDRA Watford Insurance can 
avoid the policy. This means that they can treat it as if it didnt exist from the start. 
But Watford Insurance didnt avoid the policy. They cancelled his policy instead. They said 
that under CIDRA they may avoid the policy but that didnt mean that they had to. They 
thought that the outcome for Mr A was the same whether they avoided it or cancelled it and 
cancelling might be better for Mr A in future, in terms of how it might affect his ability to 
obtain new cover. Mr As policy on page 32 does make it clear that Watford Insurance have the right to cancel 
the policy immediately, for misrepresentations which would have caused them not to insure if 
theyd known. 
However I dont agree that the outcome of cancellation was the same for Mr A as if they had 
avoided the policy and treated it as if it had not existed. Watford Insurances cancelling the 
policy meant that the policy continued until the cancellation date. The policy remained live 
until then, and Mr A made his claim before then, when he remained insured with them. So 
that means that Watford Insurance cant just decline Mr As claim, and so they must still deal 
with his claim and pay the third-party costs and not seek to recover those from Mr A.
As they havent done that, they havent complied with the policy terms or acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that I uphold the complaint and I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to 
Deal with Mr As claim and pay the third-party costs and not seek to recover those 
from Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
