DRN-4213378
The complaint
Mr Z complains BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(BMWFS) unfairly terminated his car finance agreement. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr Z entered into a 49 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) for a car. 
In October 2022, the car was seized by the police under section 165 of the Road Traffic Act 
1988 (the power to seize for driving without insurance or a driving licence).
BMWFS contacted Mr Z by phone and email to say this was a breach of the agreement and 
to remedy it, he had to provide a number of documents as follows:
- A signed letter to confirm the car was in his possession;
- A copy of the insurance certificate;
- Copy of the VC5 (log book);
- Copy of the collection receipt from the police compound.
There were further calls and emails between BMWFS and Mr Z to request the same but the 
documents werent provided. In November 2022, a default notice was issued but as it wasnt 
satisfied the agreement was terminated in January 2023 and a default recorded against Mr 
Z. 
In February 2023, Mr Z provided the documents outlined above (except the collection 
receipt). However BMWFS said their decision to terminate the agreement remained 
unchanged as the documents werent received in time as they had requested. Mr Z 
complained. 
BMWFS said the agreement was terminated and defaulted because the car was seized and 
they didnt receive the required documents from Mr Z in time despite their communication 
with him. They confirmed the termination and default would remain in place.
Since then, the car has been collected by BMWFS and sold at auction. The sale proceeds 
were put towards the agreement but there was a shortfall of around £3,300 which they said 
Mr Z needed to pay. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr Z referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She said BMWFS had provided opportunities for 
Mr Z to provide the relevant documents to avoid the default. Having seen the 
correspondence and listened to the calls, she was satisfied he was aware of the same and 
BMWFS had the correct contact details for him. Overall, she didnt believe BMWFS had 
done anything wrong. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
As a starting point, Ive referred to the terms of the agreement. In summary it says:
- BMWFS have the right to end the agreement after sending a notice required by law and the 
relevant actions arent taken within the required period of time;
- The reasons why BMWFS may terminate and default the account include failing to pay the 
monthly instalments, the vehicle is seized, sold or abandoned, etc.
- Upon termination, BMWFS can demand sums including any arrears, the total amount 
payable, recovery costs, etc. 
In this case, there is no dispute the car was seized by the police as they said there was no 
insurance. Based on the above terms, this is a breach of the agreement and one of the 
reasons that will permit BMWFS to terminate it. 
I can see following the seizure, BMWFS contacted Mr Z by phone. Ive listened to the phone 
call and the advisor confirmed the seizure was considered a breach of the agreement. He 
outlined the documents he needed from Mr Z and asked him to provide it by the end of the 
week. Having listened to the call, I find the advisors instructions were clear. I also heard Mr 
Z repeat back the documents so Im satisfied he understood what was required from him and 
he needed to take action immediately. As agreed, the advisor followed up by email which Mr 
Z said he was happy for him to do. Ive read this email and its in line with what the advisor 
told Mr Z. Based on BMWFS contact notes, I cant see Mr Z provided the documents as 
requested. 
There was a further call in November 2022 to Mr Z. Having listened to it, its content is very 
similar to the call in October 2022. After reiterating what Mr Z needed to provide, the advisor 
says he will send an email and he spells out Mr Zs email address which he confirms was the 
right one. 
In November 2022, a default notice was issued and sent to Mr Zs address. I note this is the 
same address that our service holds so I consider it to be the right one. The notice outlines 
the breach and the consequences should Mr Z not take any action by the deadline  that is, 
termination and a default. However I cant see anything was received by Mr Z. He has 
provided evidence that he had to leave the country due to personal reasons in December 
2022. While I accept he may have been out of the country for some time and there were 
things happening with his family members that he had to take care of, BMWFS had been 
requesting the documents for several weeks prior. So I cant say he wasnt aware he needed 
to take action.
In January 2023, there was a further call. Similar to the two earlier calls, I find the advisor 
was clear about what was needed and what would happen should it not be received. Again, 
Im satisfied Mr Z understood as he repeated back the documents and there was a brief 
discussion about the fact he was unable to provide the compound receipt. Mr Z confirmed he 
was happy for an email to be sent and he would reply with what was needed. Its worth 
noting in all three calls, I can hear Mr Z confirm his email address was the correct one so I 
cant say BMWFS did anything wrong by sending the emails to that address. If it was incorrect or equally if Mr Z didnt fully understand what was needed from him, I find it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to say so but he didnt during these calls. 
As Mr Z failed to provide the documents to remedy the breach, I find BMWFS acted fairly 
and in line with the terms in terminating the agreement and recording a default. I must stress 
they had first requested the documents in October 2022, sent several correspondence about 
it and spoken to him on at least three occasions so I cant say they didnt provide sufficient 
time for Mr Z to provide what was needed. They terminated the agreement in January 2023 
which is around three months after the initial breach.
Once the agreement was terminated, they collected the car. I understand it was sold at 
auction and the proceeds was put to the outstanding balance. I find this was a fair course of 
action by BMWFS as it reduced the overall balance owed by Mr Z. Im aware there is a 
shortfall of around £3,300 which he must pay and based on the terms of the agreement, 
BMWFS are entitled to the same from him. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied BMWFS acted fairly and in line with the terms in 
terminating the agreement and recording a default. I encourage Mr Z to work with BMWFS to 
pay the outstanding balance. In the event hes experiencing financial difficulty, I wish to 
remind BMWFS of their obligations to treat him with forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman