DRN-4105143
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his current account without reason. He 
would like to know the reason. And compensation for the way he was treated. Mr M is 
represented by Mrs M.
I am aware that there is a complaint about Mr Ms credit card, but I will only be dealing with 
the closure of the current account in this decision.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with HSBC for over 20 years.
Following a review by HSBC, on 4 January 2022 he received a notice to close letter from 
HSBC saying his account would close on 9 March 2022.
Mr Ms account had a third-party mandate in favour of Mrs M which was cancelled with the 
closure of the account. Mr M was unhappy that he hadnt been given a reason for the 
closure. Mrs M complained to HSBC on his behalf.
Mr M has said that Mrs M made numerous calls to HSBC where she was given 
misinformation and her calls were cut off or transferred to the wrong department. Mr M has 
said he wasnt treated kindly or with compassion.
Mr M has said that dealing with the bank on the phone has caused him a great deal of 
stress. He has told us about his health conditions and how the stress of the account closure 
and how it was carried out affected him.
HSBC said they hadnt done anything wrong when they closed his account. They also said 
that their staff couldnt give Mrs M the reason for the closure even if she called their 
customer service team.
Unhappy with the response they complained to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought HSBC had done nothing 
wrong when they closed the account, and they didnt have to give Mr M a reason for the 
closure. She also said that HSBC hadnt replied to Mr Ms concerns regarding the service 
they had received when they raised the complaint. Our adjudicator said it appeared that 
HSBC hadnt received the complaint letter Mrs M had sent to them.
Mrs M on behalf of Mr M said she was unhappy with the view. The complaint was about the 
way in which HSBC closed the account and the lack of reasons given for it. Mr M was 
frustrated that the letter didnt explain the reasons why the account was closed even though 
it said it would. Mrs M said they were concerned that the reason for the closure was because 
there had been fraud on the address or account.
Following the view, I contacted HSBC requesting their comments on the service issues. I 
note that Mrs M had raised the service issues with HSBC as part of her complaint regarding 
the closure of the accounts.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties that while I may not comment on everything 
raised, I have considered all the arguments that Mr M has put forward as well as the 
information provided by HSBC.
The issues raised in relation to the credit card closure will be dealt with in separate 
decisions.
Account review and closure
Financial businesses, like HSBC, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ms account.
Following the review HSBC decided to close Mr Ms account.
As the adjudicator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mr M on 4 January 2022 and let him know it was closing his account on 
9 March 2022 giving him 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line 
with the account terms. And gave Mr M adequate time to open another bank account.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Mr Ms account. Mr M has pointed 
out that he has been a loyal customer of HSBC for many years and that the closure of his 
account has caused him a lot of problems and stress which has affected his underlying 
health condition. Im sorry that whats happened has caused Mr M trouble and upset but as 
Ive said HSBC closed the account in line with the account terms. And having looked at the 
evidence provided Im satisfied that HSBC havent done anything wrong when they decided 
to close the account. It follows that I wont be awarding compensation for the closure 
although I understand the stress that Mr M was put under as a result of the closure.
Following the decision to close the account I would have expected the third-party access that 
Mrs M had on Mr Ms account to have been stopped so I dont think theyve done anything 
wrong.
Reasons
Mr M has expressed his frustration at not being told the reason for the account closure. He is 
also upset that the closure letter referred to a reason when the reason wasnt stated.
Mr M has said he wants to know the reasons why HSBC closed his accounts. Whilst Mr M 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. HSBC isnt required to 
give him a specific reason. HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers an account 
review and closure. And I can understand Mr Ms frustration that he hasnt been provided a 
detailed explanation but been referred to the terms and conditions. But as the adjudicator has explained, HSBC is under no obligation to provide this information to him, as much as 
hed like to know. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this 
information.
I know Mr M has been frustrated by the content of the closure letter he has received from 
HSBC. I can understand the letter may have been confusing to him. However, I can see that 
HSBC have said that they have reviewed the account and decided to close the account in 
line with the account terms. HSBC arent obliged to give Mr M a more specific reason, so I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr M is concerned that the reason for the closure may have been because 
of fraud on the address or the account. I can see this would be concerning as it would mean 
his personal details had been compromised. I would therefore like to reassure Mr M that Ive 
seen no evidence of his personal details being compromised and I hope that provides him 
with some comfort.
Service issues
I appreciate Mr M has told us about the service issues that he experienced when seeking 
clarification from HSBC and pursuing the complaint.
I understand that Mr M made some phone calls to the customer service team of HSBC and 
although Mrs M later took over and made most of the calls, Mr M has explained how his 
health was badly affected by the calls he did make and by the general stress of not knowing 
what was happening.
I understand that Mrs M made a number of calls to the customer service team of HSBC. It is 
fair to say the calls didnt go as expected, I think HSBC could have been clearer in their 
phone communications with Mrs M and I know that Mrs M was transferred to the wrong 
department on a few occasions.
I appreciate that HSBC were within their right to close Mr Ms account, but I would have 
expected them to provide a better service on the phone and to be clearer in their message to 
Mr M regarding them not being able to provide a reason. Because of this I think HSBC 
should pay Mr M £50 for the inconvenience they caused him. In awarding this amount I have 
taken into account that it was mainly Mrs M that dealt with the phone calls, but that Mr M 
was disproportionately affected by the stress of the calls he did make because of his 
underlying health condition.
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC have said they have nothing further to add to my decision. Mr M has agreed with my 
provisional findings but would like me to reconsider the amount of compensation I was 
minded to award because of inflation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs M representing Mr M for her comments about my provisional decision. Having 
considered them I havent seen any grounds to increase the compensation.
I have awarded £50 compensation in respect of the service issues on this account. I am 
aware that there are other complaints borne out of the same circumstances and I have dealt with those in separate decisions. 
I consider the award of £50 in respect of this complaint to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr M £50 for the distress caused during the calls to the customer service 
team.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mr M £50 for his material distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman