DRN-2384590
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr Ws complaint in my provisional decision. However, so that all 
the relevant information is contained in this one document I will repeat that background here.
On 7 March 2018, Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance for 
a used car, just over 3 years old. The car had travelled 29,887 at the point of sale. The cash 
price was £9,114 and the total agreement was financed for £13,509.37 paid over 61 months. 
Mr W says the car had problems before he got out of the showroom and needed to be 
serviced in March 2018 and again in May 2018. In December 2018, car was taken into the 
garage, it was for minor issues and parts were replaced. But he says the car has broken 
down and failed numerous times since then.  
In June 2019 the car broke down and was recovered. Mr W raised his concerns with Blue 
Motor Finance. He took the car to be inspected at the dealership that had supplied the car. 
In July 2019, the dealership inspected the car and ran a diagnostic check. The mileage on 
the car at this point was 37,594. The report showed the fuel to be contaminated and required 
flushing and the cleaning of the fuel system. The catalyst was reported to be shattered and 
in pieces and required a replacement. The dealership charged Mr W £1,367 for the repairs.
In August 2019, Mr W raised a second complaint with Blue Motor Finance. He said he 
believed the fault had been present at the point of sale. He says this was because the car 
because showed early signs of stalling and power loss. He felt the catalytic convertor had 
failed very early and this suggested an underlying issue. The ECU computer system was not 
showing fault codes or warning lights despite the car failing. Mr W told Blue Motor Finance 
hed tried to get an independent assessor to look at the car, but hed been unable to gain an 
inspection because the car was failing intermittently, and no warning lights were showing. A 
third-party company had also run a diagnostic and couldnt identify a fault. 
On 6 September 2019, Blue Motor Finance issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. It said apart from minor repairs to spark plugs and ignition coil repair carried out 
under warranty, no faults were reported until June 2019. The car also passed a MOT with no 
advisories in January 2019. It said as more than 14 months had passed since Mr W took 
purchased the car and as hes travelled over 7000 miles, it found no evidence the car wasnt 
fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Dissatisfied, Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. She issued a view upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
She found that the complete deterioration of the catalytic converter after limited mileage was 
an issue of durability and on balance was more likely than not present at the point of sale.
Blue Finance raised a number of concerns with the view. It said it had a report which showed 
the catalytic converter had been affected by fuel contamination and the responsibility for that 
would lie with Mr W and couldnt have been present at the point of sale or the car wouldnt 
have been able to cover the distance it had.
The investigator looked at the further information and issued a second view. She remained 
of the view there was more likely a fault present or developing at the point of sale. She 
looked at the report provided by Blue Motor Finance and didnt agree it said the catalytic 
converter failed due to fuel contamination. She didnt feel Blue Motor Finance had acted 
fairly and so she asked it to:
Allow Mr W to reject the car and exit the finance agreement with no further cost to 
him. Blue Motor Finance would be responsible for collection of the car at their 
expense.
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from his credit file.
Refund five finance payments made from September 2019. Calculate 8% on each of
these from the date each payment was made to present.
Refund the repair costs of £1,367 completed in July 2019.
Calculate 8% on top of the repair cost, calculate from July 2019 to present.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said Mr W purchased the 
vehicle in March 2018. Although there was an issue with the catalytic converter in June 2019 
(which was changed at the customers expense in July 2019), this did not occur until over 15 
months into the agreement. Given the mileage covered since purchase (approx. 7000), on 
the balance of probability the faulty catalytic converter could not have been present at the 
point of sale otherwise it would have been highlighted much sooner. It cited the Consumer 
Rights Act and said it was the customers responsibility to prove the faulty catalytic converter 
was present at the point sale. It said it had seen no evidence to this effect and as such it 
asks for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I reached the same view as the investigator, but I thought BMF 
should adopt a different approach to redress the situation.
I said I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Id done so using my own words. There is a lot of information here from both parties. I 
explained Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I said Id focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. 
I said if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory 
(as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints 
about it. The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt, then Blue Motor Finance, who are also the supplier of the 
car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
I said, in this case although a used car, it was only just over 3 years old and had travelled 
29,887 at the point of sale. At the point the fault was identified by the dealership the mileage 
was 37,594. So, the car had travelled around 7,000 miles whilst in Mr Ws ownership.
The issue here is that the dealership says the onus is on Mr W to provide evidence of a fault 
present or developing at the point of sale and it doesnt feel Mr W has done so. Mr W feels 
he has exhausted every option and as the catalytic converter has completely disintegrated, 
he feels this clearly points to an inherent fault. The car has broken down numerous times 
since he received it. After an attempt at resolving the issues, the car kept stalling, but Mr W 
was unsure if it was his driving style. After seven months the catalytic convertor failed 
prematurely. I understand the car remains at the dealership. Mr W says the dealership has 
advised him it has been repaired but has not provided confirmation of this and he has now 
lost all confidence in the dealership to rectify the problem. 
So, I explained must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I said I appreciated the problems with the car happened a year after it was supplied and after 
the car had covered 37,594. So, the car had travelled around 7,000 miles whilst in Mr Ws 
ownership. But I consider the mileage on the car when the faults first happened as low 
mileage for such a failure. Mr W has provided evidence of the car stalling and losing power 
and details of the breakdowns. 
I said from what Ive seen I wouldnt expect a catalytic converter to completely disintegrate 
under 50,000 miles, its designed to be durable and I find this failure to be premature. So 
much so that I think its more likely that a fault was present or developing at the point of sale.
Even if Im wrong, I still think Mr W should be allowed to reject the car on the basis that it 
hasnt proved durable enough. When considering whether a car was satisfactory at the point 
of supply this is an issue that the relevant legislation suggests is an important factor. The car 
has suffered frequent failures which caused Mr W a great deal of inconvenience. It now 
remains at the dealership. I think, even considering the age and mileage its completed, a 
reasonable person would expect the car to be more durable. So, I dont think this car has 
proved to be of satisfactory quality as its most likely faults were developing at the point of 
supply and its not proved sufficiently durable.
Since the investigator issued her view, Mr W has had no further use of the vehicle and it has 
remained at the dealership. He has maintained the monthly instalments whilst having to 
purchase another vehicle as the dealership requested, he return the courtesy car it provided. 
I said I understood this has been very difficult for Mr W and I have reflected this in my 
redress. As this is different from the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to 
allow both parties to provide any submissions they wish to make.
I said for the reasons I have given I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Blue Motor 
Finance Limited to:Allow Mr W to reject the car and exit the finance agreement with no further cost to 
him. Blue Motor Finance would be responsible for collection of the car at their 
expense.
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from his credit file.
Refund all the finance payments made from September 2019. Calculate 8% on each 
of these from the date each payment was made to present.
Refund the repair costs of £1,367 completed in July 2019.
Calculate 8% on top of the repair cost, calculate from July 2019 to present.
Pay Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Mr W accepted my provisional findings.
BMF didnt. It said it had looked at the details of this case from a legal perspective and had 
taken advice from Trading Standards. It said it didnt agree that my provisional decision was 
in keeping with the Consumer Rights Act. It said it didnt see the car until June 2019, some 
14 months after Mr W purchased the car. At that point it found fuel contamination has eroded 
the catalytic converter. It referenced the repair undertaken by Mr W at an independent 
garage for corroded spark plugs and an ignition coil, which it considers having no bearing on 
the catalytic converter. It says this was a separate fault and asks why I have reached the 
view that a catalytic converter shouldnt fail before 50,000 miles. The catalytic converter 
failed 14 months after purchase and as such there is no evidence there was a fault present 
at the point of sale. It asked for my consideration of this information before making a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the information provided by both parties, including the additional 
submissions from Blue Motor Finance. I have to say I havent been persuaded to change my 
view in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive already mentioned in considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to think about 
the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance, freedom from minor defects, safety, 
and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
In this case, Im considering a used car, just over 3 years old. The car had travelled 29,887 
at the point of sale. In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to be persuaded the car 
was not of satisfactory quality and so a breach of the contract has taken place. Further, Mr W and BMF disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply 
which made the car not of satisfactory quality. Its also important to point out this service is 
an alternative to the courts and so whilst I take account of the law, Im not bound by it. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
BMF has said it didnt see the car until June 2019. The dealership, however, serviced the car 
in March 2018 and May 2018, some two months after Mr W purchased it. Mr W took the car 
in because it wasnt running well. The issues continued and he approached the dealership 
again, but it wouldnt carry out any further repairs and requested a £90 diagnostic fee, so Mr 
W took the car to an independent garage. It found corroded spark plugs and a failed coil 
pack.
So, the dealership had the car back twice within six months for faults. I dont find it 
reasonable then that just after six months an independent garage would find corroded spark 
plugs and coil. Whilst I dont claim to be an expert in matters relating to catalytic converters, I 
am aware that failing and mis-firing spark plugs can also contribute to a failed catalytic 
converter. I also dont accept the report said the fuel contamination caused the failure of the 
catalytic converter. The catalytic converter was shattered  it disintegrated. 
I remain of the view that from what Ive seen I wouldnt expect a catalytic converter to 
completely disintegrate on a 3-year-old car of this age that has travelled just over 37,000 
miles, its designed to be durable and I find this failure to be premature. So much so that I 
think its more likely that a fault was present or developing at the point of sale.
But as Ive already said, even if Im wrong, I still think Mr W should be allowed to reject the 
car on the basis that it hasnt proved durable enough. When considering whether a car was 
satisfactory at the point of supply this is an issue that the relevant legislation suggests is an 
important factor. The car has suffered frequent failures which caused Mr W a great deal of 
inconvenience. It now remains at the dealership. I think, even considering the age and 
mileage its completed, a reasonable person would expect the car to be more durable. So, I 
dont think this car has proved to be of satisfactory quality as its most likely faults were 
developing at the point of supply and its not proved sufficiently durable.
BMF has continually raised the six-month timescale and the burden of proof lying with Mr W 
and in its opinion, he hasnt shown there to have been a fault present at the point of supply. 
But my role is to consider the wider circumstances. In this case, the dealership had the car 
back twice within six months for repairs, there shouldnt have been a further issue a few 
months later with corroded spark plugs, which could be connected to the failure of a catalytic 
converter. But I come back to the point that this is a complete disintegration of the part, it 
was shattered. The CRA also has provision for durability, and as I have already said I find it 
more likely than not that the car wasnt sufficiently durable.
I understand BMF have said I havent taken account of the use Mr W has had of the car. Im 
afraid I dont agree. I accept Mr W has had some use for the car. But from September 2019, 
the car has remained at the dealership and he was asked to return he courtesy car. The 
dealership offered to buy the car back for £4,500, but this was rejected by Mr W as it 
wouldnt clear the finance outstanding on the car. So, he hasnt had use of the car since then 
and has had to acquire another car. I find it only fair and reasonable that the finance 
payments he made from September 2019 onwards should be refunded.
My final decision
  For the reasons I have given I direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to:Allow Mr W to reject the car and exit the finance agreement with no further cost to
him. 
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from his credit file.
Refund all the finance payments made from September 2019. Calculate 8% on each 
of these from the date each payment was made to present.
Refund the repair costs of £1,367 completed in July 2019.
Calculate 8% on top of the repair cost, calculate from July 2019 to present.
Pay Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman