DRN-3632334
Complaint summary and background
Mr M complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made under 
the legal expenses section of an insurance policy. 
Mr M owns a business and was contacted by a third party who was unhappy with some work 
he had done. Mr M made contact with UKI for advice on how to move things forward. He 
was in regular contact with UKI as matters progressed, however it was only when the third 
party involved solicitors, UKI informed Mr M that his policy wouldnt cover him in the 
circumstances in which he wished to claim. 
Mr M was unhappy about this and believes had UKI informed him of this at the start, the 
direction the third party took in relation to their claim against him may have been different. 
And as such he may never have incurred the costs he did in having to instruct a solicitor at 
short notice and pay out to the third party. 
In responding to a complaint Mr M made, UKI accepted it had made an error and offered 
Mr M £200 compensation. An investigator at this service let Mr M know they thought that 
was a reasonable amount to put matters right and so they wouldnt be recommending UKI 
do or pay anything more. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Further developments
I wrote to both parties setting out my initial thoughts on the matter. I said that UKI made an 
error, which it has acknowledged, but I didnt think £200 compensation adequately reflected 
the level of trouble and upset Mr M was caused. I recommended UKI paid Mr M £500 
compensation.
I further explained that I was not intending to recommend UKI cover any of the other costs 
Mr M incurred as there was no way of knowing how the third-party claim would have 
progressed. He may well have always needed to instruct a solicitor and pay the costs that he 
did. 
UKI accepted my recommendations but Mr M did not. He made the point that £500 only 
represents a quarter of the amount he had to pay out and he doesnt think this is an 
adequate amount to reflect the amount of distress the matter caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and taking on board the comments Mr M has more recently made, Im not 
intending to depart from my initial thoughts. 
I do appreciate Mr M feels very strongly about what has happened and is aggrieved by the 
whole matter. And he does have my natural sympathy about this. However, my role here is 
to concentrate on the error UKI made and the impact that caused. I understand, as Mr M has 
explained, the underlying matter itself impacted his feelings very deeply and it is something 
he has taken to heart. However, I cant hold UKI responsible for that. 
I remain of the opinion that UKI should not be held responsible for the costs Mr M incurred. 
Given how strongly both parties felt about what happened, it is possible the matter would 
have always escalated to the point solicitors were involved. And, in this case, as they usually 
do, I would have expected the solicitors to advise Mr M to settle on the best possible terms. 
So, based on this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for UKI to become responsible 
for those costs. 
I appreciate Mr Ms thoughts on the level of compensation I have recommended however I 
do think it adequately reflects the trouble and upset he was caused by UKIs error alone. I 
am not therefore minded to increase this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to pay Mr M £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman