DRN-3840819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt send them a closing
statement when they redeemed their mortgage. Once a statement was sent, it was not in the
usual format and was hard to understand and Mr and Mrs C say a copy was also sent to
their old address when it shouldnt have been.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C redeemed their mortgage on 29 June 2021. Shortly after, they say their 
account details were removed from their online accounts so they could no longer see the
account status. Mr and Mrs C say they were expecting to receive a closing statement, so
when they didnt receive anything, they contacted Santander to request one.
Mr and Mrs C say they received what looked like an internal copy of a statement that was
formatted differently to what they would usually see. They queried why it showed a
remaining credit of £0.38 and why, at the bottom of the letter, there was a reference to two
loans with different interest rates.
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint but said that it doesnt usually issue a
closing mortgage statement. This is because a redemption statement would have been
issued prior to the mortgage account closing, which would have had the up to date
information on it. In this case, the redemption statement would have been sent to Mr and
Mrs Cs solicitors.
Santander went on to say that the £0.38 was an interest adjustment from when they took a
payment deferral during the coronavirus, Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic) but confirmed
that it had received the correct redemption amount and the account is now closed.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt accept Santanders answer, our investigator looked into their 
concerns, but they didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs C remained
unhappy, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision 
on 4 November 2022 and I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Below is 
an extract of what I said: 
Mr and Mrs C still think Santander should have sent them a closing statement. I can 
understand why they would have wanted this, but a redemption statement was issued to
Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor and I can see why Santander would have expected their solicitors to
share that with them. The information on the redemption statement should provide all of the
data up to the point of the account closing, so Santander doesnt routinely send anything
further.
I cant tell Santander to send closing statements as standard practice. Its up to Santander to
decide whether it wants to or not. But when Mr and Mrs C asked for a closure statement 
one was sent to them and so Im satisfied Santander didnt do anything wrong with regards
to this element of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C found it difficult to interpret the statement they were sent as it was in a
different format to what they would usually receive. Unfortunately, as closing statements
arent routinely generated, the only way Santander can provide one is to share its internal
statement history which presents the information slightly differently. I dont think this is
avoidable and isnt something I can ask Santander to change.
Mr and Mrs C were particularly concerned that the statement referred to interest rates
associated with loan 1 and loan 2. Santander has said that it cant explain why the
statement makes reference to two loans and confirms that Mr and Mrs C only had one. It has
confirmed that the rate listed next to loan 2 was the relevant rate applicable to Mr and
Mrs Cs account.
Mr and Mrs C used both rates to calculate the final interest charges and felt there was a
discrepancy. They were charged £1,395.22, followed by £873.79 before the account closed
and they think this was too much.
Santander has explained that Mr and Mrss C interest is charged on the 10th of every month,
so the first interest they were charged at £1,395.22 relates to the full period of interest from
11th May through to 10th June. But as their mortgage wasnt redeemed until later on in the
month  29 June 2021  the second interest charge covers that period. It might help to
explain how interest was calculated on their interest only mortgage:
Capital balance x interest rate  12  days in month x actual number of days between 
last payment due date and date of making the payment
Considering this, Im satisfied the amounts shown were correct. But I do appreciate the
reference to two loans and two different interest rates would have been confusing to Mr and
Mrs C and I think Santander could have done more to reassure them the reference to two
loans should be ignored.
In terms of the £0.38 credit showing on the statement, again, I appreciate why Mr and Mrs C
wanted this explained, but Santander did confirm it was an interest adjustment to their 
account following payment deferrals that were granted during the pandemic. The credit is not
an outstanding amount on the account  it was factored in at the time of redemption, so
Mr and Mrs C do not owe anything further and are also not due a refund as this would
already have been deducted from the outstanding sum on redemption.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy correspondence has been sent to their old address.
Santander has provided Mr and Mrs Cs address history which shows Mr Cs address was
changed on 30 June 2021  the day after their mortgage was redeemed. But Mrs Cs
address wasnt updated until 20 October 2021. This would explain why Mr and Mrs Cs
correspondence was still being sent to their address some time after they moved. I should
point out that if Mr C updated his address, that wouldnt automatically update Mrs Cs record
 this would have to be done separately.
But Mr and Mrs C have provided a copy of a letter dated 23 November 2021, addressed to
them both at their old address. They have confirmed that it was forwarded to them because
they had arranged for their post to be redirected.
So, it does appear that Santanders sent letters to Mr and Mrs Cs old address when they
shouldnt have. I asked Santander to comment on this, but it hasnt explained why this may
have happened. Mr and Mrs C say they have received three redirected letters in total. Im
unsure how many of these were after 20 October 2021, but Im satisfied at least one of them
was because I have a copy of it.I understand this may have caused some concern to Mr and Mrs C because even though
their post was being redirected at the time, that wont last forever. And it also means theyre
reliant on redirection working, to avoid their personal information being received by the new
occupiers. They shouldnt have to worry about this and so I think Santander should award a
sum to recognise that and ensure it doesnt happen again.
So, in summary, I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it didnt automatically send
Mr and Mrs C a closing statement. But I dont think Santander adequately explained why the
closing statement Mr and Mrs C were sent referred to two loans and I can see that this
would more likely than not have caused some confusion to Mr and Mrs C when they
received it.
I also think Santander has sent correspondence to Mr and Mrs Cs old address after they
had been advised to change it on both of their accounts. While Mr and Mrs Cs post was
being redirected, preventing the new occupiers from receiving it, I can see why this would
also have given them cause for concern. So, for these reasons, I think Santander should
compensate Mr and Mrs C with £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accepted my provisional findings and made no further comments about the 
outcome of this complaint. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept my provisional findings and said they 
both spoke to Santander during the same phone call in June 2021 to change their address. 
They also provided a copy of a statement they say was sent in August 2021 that was 
addressed to both Mr and Mrs C at their current address. They say this proves Mrs Cs 
address was updated prior to October 2021. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said carefully, but I still think £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused to them is fair. As Ive explained above, I can see correspondence 
continued to be sent to their old address when it shouldnt have been. But Mr and Mrs C 
were having their post redirected, so they still received the correspondence that was 
addressed incorrectly.
If Mrs C received correspondence at their new address earlier than considered above, this 
doesnt have any bearing on the compensation I would award. Thats because the date that 
letters continued to be sent to the wrong address is the mistake Im considering, and nothing 
has changed there. 
But, I would point out the statement Mr and Mrs C have provided is not dated, it only 
confirms the date range its relevant for. So I cant be sure it was received in August 2021. 
And, in any case, as its a joint account, it may occur that correspondence addressed to both 
parties was sent to the new address after Mr Cs address was updated. I dont think this 
confirms that Mrs Cs address was updated prior to October 2021. And I havent seen any 
documented evidence to confirm whether it should have been or not. But Santanders 
address change records confirm Mrs Cs address was not updated on its system until 
October 2021. Again, whether it should have been changed sooner or not has little impact 
on the outcome Ive reached, I say this because it doesnt extend the period of time that 
letters were incorrectly sent to the old address, which was later. I cant say for certain whether Mrs Cs address should have been changed at the same time 
as Mr Cs in June 2021 or not. And I dont think the statement theyve provided confirms this. 
But ultimately, the resulting problem was that correspondence was still being sent to the old 
address when it shouldnt have been, and I have awarded compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to reflect the period of time that went on for. So, for the reasons explained 
above, I still think Santander should put things right as set out below. 
Putting things right
I think Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C £150 for the trouble and upset caused to them.
Ensure that no further correspondence is sent to Mr and Mrs Cs previous address.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman