DRN-2019495
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) acted irresponsibly when they 
approved a credit card facility for her. 
What happened
Miss A opened  a credit card account with Capital One and says that she was already in 
financial difficulty at the time and her credit file would have shown that. Miss A feels that 
Capital One would have been aware of this and shouldnt have approved the credit card 
account which has got her further into debt and resulted in her being  chased by a debt 
collection agency causing her stress and upset. 
Miss A feels that Capital One should refund all the interest and charges debited to her credit 
card account and adjust her credit file. 
Capital One says that at the time the credit card account was approved they carried out their 
usual credit checks and the application met their affordability assessment. Capital One dont 
feel they have done anything wrong and did not uphold her complaint and her request for 
interest and charges to be refunded , nor did they feel they should amend her credit file. 
Miss A wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Miss As complaint. 
She says that Capital One carried out the appropriate checks at the time of the application 
for the credit card and there was nothing to evidence the credit card limit approved was 
unaffordable. 
Miss A wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for this to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
I can see it would be worrying for Miss A trying to cope with the financial position she found 
herself in, however, when considering her complaint, I have focused on whether Capital One 
acted irresponsibly when they provided Miss A with the credit card account. 
Miss A says that at the time she took out the credit card account with Capital One she had 
considerable other borrowing and Capital One would have been aware of this. Miss A also 
makes the point that only a matter of months earlier she had closed her previous Capital 
One credit card account because she was struggling to meet the repayments. 
I have looked at the documentation provided to me by both parties and while this shows 
borrowing to other providers at the time of the application, there is no indication of any 
adverse information recorded apart from one missed payment with her previous Capital One 
credit card. Miss A says there was considerable other borrowing not picked up by Capital 
One but the borrowing she refers to was taken out within the same month as her application 
to Capital One for her credit card. I am satisfied from the information Capital One provided 
me that these other borrowings did not show at the time they conducted their credit 
searches, as these other borrowings were only taken out a matter of weeks before her 
application to them. 
Capital One says there was no adverse credit history showing on their searches apart from 
one missed payment to her previous credit card with them , I am satisfied , on balance this in 
itself wouldnt have been a reason for them to decline her application for the new card, 
especially as this borrowing had been fully repaid . 
Capital One, like all banks, would consider a number of factors when considering Miss As 
credit card application  such as her income and homeowner status. Its worth mentioning 
that I can see no evidence to suggest that Miss A advised Capital One of the additional 
borrowings she refers to, taken out that same month as her application for the credit card, 
which may have had a bearing on their decision. 
What is important here is that Capital one have carried out proportionate checks at the time 
of the credit card approval and I cant see that the level of credit provided to Miss A was 
unreasonable based on the information made available to them. 
It is not my role to tell Capital One how to carry out their credit assessments other than to 
see these checks were appropriate and proportionate  I am satisfied, from the evidence I 
have seen, this is what happened here.  
While Miss A will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
Capital One here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman