DRN-4322230
The complaint
Mr G complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline his claim under 
his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G took out a home insurance policy and, under the contents section, he selected an 
additional option to include cover for specified items within and away from his home. Mr Gs 
work tools were stolen from his vehicle, so he made a claim under his policy. AXA declined 
the claim, so Mr G complained. AXA responded and referred to an exclusion in Mr Gs policy 
relating to unoccupied vehicles. AXA explained, when Mr G reported the incident, he 
explained his vehicle was unattended, so the claim was declined in line with the policy terms.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She thought AXA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Gs home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under the section covering specified items away from home, it contains an 
exclusion which says, for theft claims, AXA wont provide cover For items stolen from 
unoccupied vehicles. Theres no dispute Mr G wasnt in his vehicle at the time his work tools 
were stolen. AXA say Mr Gs vehicle was therefore unoccupied, so the exclusion applies.   
Mr G says the policy definition of unoccupied doesnt fit the circumstances here so its 
unfair for AXA to apply the exclusion.   
The policy booklet defines unoccupied as, Your Home has not been visited by You or Your 
guests for 30 consecutive days or more. I agree with Mr G that this definition doesnt apply 
to the circumstances of his claim. I think its reasonable to say this definition applies to       
Mr Gs home, rather than contents kept in his vehicle away from home. So, Ive thought 
about whether the policy wording in relation to the exclusion was clear. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), under ICOBS: 2.2.2 R requires 
information from a business to be clear, fair and not misleading. Where policy terms and 
conditions are open to differing, yet reasonable, interpretations, I would look favourably on 
the party that hasnt drafted the wording. In this case, and given the policy definition for the 
term unoccupied, I dont believe the intention was for this definition to apply to the 
exclusion. So, Ive thought carefully about what would be reasonable to infer from the 
exclusion  and I think its not unreasonable to infer unoccupied vehicle means a vehicle 
which doesnt have anyone in it. I acknowledge Mr G says he was only away from his 
vehicle for a short time, but it means the vehicle was unoccupied at the time of the incident.      
 
I understand Mr G says, when taking out the policy, he spoke with an agent and, after 
explaining he needed the additional cover for his work tools in case his vehicle gets broken 
into, the agent reassured Mr G hed taken out the correct policy cover. I note Mr G is 
frustrated about this, but my decision focuses only on the claim decision against the insurer, 
AXA  as that is what has been addressed by AXA in their complaint response. If Mr G does 
have concerns about the sales process, these will need to be raised separately against the 
business Mr G spoke with when taking out the policy. 
I understand Mr G will be disappointed, and I am sorry to read about the impact the incident 
has had, and continues to have, on Mr Gs work. But my role here is to decide whether AXA 
have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim  and from the information Ive seen, I 
think they have. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman