DRN-3911044
The complaint
Mr M has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined part of a claim for storm 
damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted QIC when he found damage to his home following a storm. QIC sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. It accepted the claim for damage to the ridge tiles, but 
declined the claim for damage to the chimney and a gable end. 
When Mr M complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline part of the claim. It said the 
chimney mortar showed signs of wear and tear, so it applied an exclusion for gradual 
deterioration. It said the gable end wasnt storm-related damage.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for QIC to decline the claim for the chimney on the basis of gradual damage 
and that there wasnt evidence to show the damage to the gable end was due to the storm.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
It isnt in dispute that there was a storm around the time the damage was found, but for 
completeness, Ive checked the weather conditions. This showed storm strength winds 
around that time. Storm strength winds could cause damage to things like a roof, chimney or 
wall. 
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. I havent 
considered the ridge tiles, as Im aware QIC accepted that part of the claim. Mr M has also 
said the chimney wasnt part of the claim. However, as QIC looked at it as part of the claim, 
for completeness, I have considered it. QIC declined the chimney damage because it said 
there were signs of pre-existing issue with the mortar. Having looked at the surveyors 
findings, I think it was reasonable for QIC to decline this part of the claim on the basis of 
gradual deterioration.
Ive also thought about the gable end. QIC declined this because it said there wasnt 
evidence of storm damage. When QICs surveyor visited, he found signs of wear to the 
gable end. He also took photos inside the house that showed cracking and possible 
movement to the gable wall and said it wasnt clear whether the cracking was recent or was 
present prior to the storm.
When a policyholder makes a claim, it is for them to show that damage is due to an insured 
event. But insurers usually investigate this on a policyholders behalf, which QIC did by 
sending a surveyor. Mr M disagreed with QICs decision about the gable end, so he provided 
evidence to show why he thought the claim should be accepted. This included a letter 
prepared by a friend who said he had retired from the property management industry several 
years ago and named a membership he used to hold. The letter described the condition of 
the wall and how he thought the wind would have buffeted the wall and why he thought the 
damage could only be recent. He also said:
 the property was constructed in 1972, at which point, horizontal gable straps were not a 
requirement of the building regulations, but are now employed to help prevent the movement 
of gable walls subjected to extreme weather conditions.
Mr M also provided a report from a builder. This said:
It is my opinion that the house has been maintained well and that the gable end fell out and 
the ridge tiles lifted due to the high winds during the storm. There were also no wall ties 
between the internal blockwork and external brickwork, nor were there any heavy duty straps 
tied into the internal roof trusses which would have helped to prevent the brickwork falling 
out.
Mr M has said his evidence showed the storm caused the damage. However, I dont think I 
can fairly agree that the storm was the main cause. Both his builder and his friend described 
issues with the construction of the gable wall and how this affected the movement. Mr Ms 
friend also said insurers would be aware of technical deficiencies against modern installation 
standards. Looking at the policy wording, this shows an exclusion for poor workmanship, 
including latent deficiencies, which it defined as a fault which exists but which only causes 
a problem at a later stage under certain conditions. So, I dont think this supports that the 
damage to the gable end should be accepted as part of the claim.
QICs surveyor and its internal review didnt identify the storm as the cause of the damage. 
Mr Ms evidence said the storm was a key factor, but also identified issues with how the 
property was constructed, which the builder said contributed to the issues. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think it was fair for QIC to decline the claim for the gable end, as I dont think the 
evidence shows the storm was the main cause of the damage, even taking into account that 
the damage was found following a storm. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
QIC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman