DRN-2272774
The complaint
Ms D complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) incorrectly paid out a claim 
she made on behalf of her late husbands estate, to his sister Mrs B. Shes also complained 
that NS&I havent provided the full transaction history she requested. She says that shes 
been caused considerable distress and inconvenience by NS&I, as a result of the way 
theyve handled the claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 September 2020, explaining that I 
was not intending to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Ive set out below a timeline of the key events relevant to this complaint:
On 1 October 2018, a few days before he passed away, the late Mr D 
apparently signed a Will, in front of his solicitor, appointing his sister Mrs B, as 
executor of his estate (the October Will).
Later in October 2018, the death certificate for Mr D was issued, showing Ms 
D as his wife and Mrs B, his sister, as the informant.
In November 2018, unaware of the October Will, Ms D, his estranged wife, 
informed NS&I of Mr Ds death and said she was assessing his assets as his 
next of kin and administrator of his estate. NS&I sent her a Death of a holder 
form to complete and return to them.
On 21 January 2019, Ms D was issued with a Grant of Administration on the 
basis that the late Mr D had passed away intestate.
In late February 2019, Ms D contacted NS&I about her intention to make a 
claim and was told they would await a completed Death of a holder form 
from her.
On or about 7 March 2019, NS&I were contacted by Mrs B, who said she was 
the executor of the estate, and enclosed what they believed was a genuine 
Will. NS&I sent her a Death of a holder form which was completed and 
returned to them. The bonds, with a value of £1,575.00 were then repaid to 
Mrs B, as representative of the estate.
On 29 April 2019, Ms D sent a completed Death of a holder form to NS&I, for 
the same premium bonds.
On 7 May 2019, Ms D received a letter from NS&I informing her that the 
premium bonds had been repaid on 13 March 2019.
On 5 August 2019, following receipt of a request by Ms D for more 
information about the repayment of the premium bonds, NS&I advised Ms D 
that the bonds were repaid
to her late husbands sister, Mrs B, on receipt of her completed form in March 
2019. They said they couldnt provide Ms D with any further information as 
she wasnt named as the executor and recommended that she speak to Mrs 
B directly.
Ms D felt that NS&I shouldnt have acted on the basis of the Will which hadnt 
been proved by probate. Ms D believes NS&I should repay the premium 
bonds to her, as administrator of Mr Ds estate.
On 16 September 2019 Ms D brought her complaint to our service.
In December 2019 one of our investigators started looking into Ms Ds 
complaint. She clarified that her main point of complaint was that NS&I had 
paid her late husbands money to his sister based on a purported will, even 
though she didnt have a Grant of Probate. Ms D said shed informed NS&I 
from the outset that she was applying for the Grant of Administration.
On 9 January 2020, our investigator issued her view upholding the complaint. She 
said the Will isnt a legally binding document, and although it may have been the late 
Mr Ds wish to appoint his sister as the executrix, until she had been to court and 
obtained the Grant of Probate naming her as such, she wasnt. In the meantime, Ms 
D has been granted Letters of Administration, so has been recognised by the courts 
as the administrator for the late Mr Ds estate. Therefore, she was entitled to receive 
the repayment of the bonds for the estate and to information about the account. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint and said that NS&I should pay Ms D the value of 
the premium bonds, plus interest at 8% a year, and provide the transaction history.
Ms D accepted the view, but NS&I did not. In response they said:
Ms D applied for Letters of Administration on the basis that the deceased was 
Intestate when in fact he left a Will (witnessed by a solicitor);
Letters of Administration are granted when there is no Will present. As a Will 
is present, the Letters of Administration should be revoked;
The Will they received is a legal document, duly witnessed, signed in front of 
a solicitor;
The instructions in the Will are for the sister to be the executor and 
beneficiary;
Because of the value of the estate they can release the funds against the Will 
only which they have done; and
In accordance with Regulation 89 of the National Savings (No.2) Regulations 
2015, NS&I can make payment in these circumstances if that doesnt exceed 
£5,000.
They said the assessment was unfair to NS&I whod acted with the appropriate 
person in accordance with the law and documentation provided. NS&I requested an 
ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
Following NS&Is response, on 7 May 2020 Ms D provided us with a forensic 
handwriting report dated 25 February 2020. The expert concluded: Consequently, I 
am of the opinion that there is strong evidence to support the proposition that Mr D 
did not write the signature in his name on the Will but that it is a simulation (freehand 
copy) of his genuine signature style, by another individual. The report also quoted 
from an email dated 3 May 2019 sent by the solicitor who witnessed the Will, saying, 
that When Mr D attended her office to sign the Will, he was healthy to visit the 
office.
I provisionally decided that I didnt have any power to consider this complaint as it 
wasnt clear to me who was properly authorised to represent the estate. However, 
following further submissions from Ms D and her representatives, I decided that I was 
satisfied she was authorised by law to bring the complaint to our service as she held 
Letters of Administration in relation to the estate of Mr D.In response to my provisional jurisdiction decision, Ms Ds representatives have 
provided the following information:
the late Mr Ds siblings have confirmed they are not seeking to uphold the 
purported will or challenge the Grant of Letters of Administration; and
on 15 July 2020, following Ms Ds solicitors request for confirmation of any 
steps taken in relation to the estate, the solicitors for the late Mr Ds siblings 
confirmed that his sister, Mrs B, had made a bereavement claim to NS&I, and 
they requested account details so that Mrs B could transfer the funds to Ms D.
Ms D has also made the following additional comments and observations:
she didnt feel that NS&I shouldnt have acted on the basis of the Will which 
hadnt been proved by probate, in her view its the legal procedure in England 
and Wales;
the original or certified copy of the Registrars copy of Death Certificate should 
have been provided with the alleged executors claim form. She asked 
whether NS&I asked for it to be provided, and if not, why not;
NS&I paid the money to Mrs Bs personal account, not the estates account;
shes questioned why NS&I felt the Will was a genuine Will. She maintains 
that the Will is not a legal document until and unless it is successful in 
probate;
she has proof that the late Mr Ds estate wasnt a small estate, so probate 
was required;
she said its unfair that shes had to pay for the estate out of her own savings 
and being out of pocket due to insufficient estate funds for over one year and 
9 months when she was the properly authorised person by law to administer 
the estate, and there was an estate asset that could have been used to clear 
the debts. She suggests shes lost out financially, experienced inconvenience 
and distress because of something NS&I did;
shes unhappy that NS&I took more than eight weeks to respond to her query 
of 15 May 2019, but paid out the claim within two days of receipt of the form 
and copy documents from Mrs B;
she hasnt received the NS&I funds from Mrs B. Ms D has said that her 
dealing is with NS&I, not Mrs B and therefore she wont be accepting funds 
from third parties;
she isnt aware of the value of the asset as NS&I have refused to provide the 
transaction history of the account when requested; and
she feels its NS&Is responsibility to safeguard the late Mr Ds estate, and to 
pay the funds to the right representative of the estate.
NS&I have also provided further comments on the merits following receipt of my 
jurisdiction decision. Theyve said:
Although Ms D notified them of the death and provided a copy of the death 
certificate in November 2018, and claimed to be administrator of the estate, 
they didnt hear from her again until May 2019;
Mrs B provided a copy of the Will in March 2019 and they paid out to the 
estate on that basis;
Mrs B was named as the executor and a beneficiary under the Will and the 
contents of the Will didnt give any indication that Ms D would have a claim on 
the estate;NS&I is a Government agency with set regulations and in accordance with 
Regulation 89 of the National Savings (No.2) Regulations 2015 (the NS 
(No.2 Regulations) NS&I can make payment without a Grant of 
Representation if the amount doesnt exceed £5,000; and
they understand that Mrs B has agreed to pay the funds to Ms D and 
therefore believe this is now a civil matter.
As NS&I didnt accept our investigators view, the matter has now come to me for a 
decision on the merits.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive summarised the submissions of the parties and their representatives in some 
detail, in the what happened section above, because the background is somewhat 
complex. However, I dont consider the issues that I need to decide, in relation to this 
complaint, mirror the complexity of the background - I will explain why.
But before I do that, Id first like to clarify that Ive seen an exchange of 
correspondence between Ms Ds solicitors and Mrs Bs solicitors regarding the 
authenticity of the Will dated 1 October 2018. However, I will not be commenting on 
whether or not that document is a valid Will  that is a matter for the courts to decide. 
In any event, Im satisfied that I dont need to make a finding on the validity of the 
October 2018 Will, to fairly decide this complaint.
The first question I need to address is whether NS&I were wrong to repay the bonds 
to Mrs B. If I conclude they were, then I need to consider what they need to do to put 
that right for the estate.
To answer this first question, Ive thought about the information that was available to 
NS&I in March 2019 when they were contacted by Mrs B. Following her initial 
contact, Mrs B provided NS&I with a completed Death of a holder form, a copy of 
the Will and a copy of the death certificate. I havent been provided with a copy of the 
death certificate, so I cant comment on whether or not it was certified by a Registrar 
or solicitor, as Ms D has queried. However, I note that the form provided that the 
copy of the death certificate could be certified by any of a number of qualified 
individuals currently practicing in the legal, financial or teaching profession and so on. 
And in any event, theres nothing in the evidence to suggest that the copy of the 
death certificate supplied by Mrs B was an inaccurate copy. 
I note that Ms D had already obtained the Grant of Letters of Administration, at that 
time, but I dont think NS&I were aware of that, when Mrs B contacted them. In 
November 2018 Ms D had informed NS&I that Mr D had passed away and she said 
she was assessing his assets as next of kin. However, it wasnt until the end of April 
2019, that Ms D sent NS&I a completed Death of a holder form and informed them 
that she had obtained the Grant of Letters of Administration. But, by that time the 
bonds had already been repaid to Mrs B.
So, in March 2019, NS&I hadnt been informed that a Grant of Letters of 
Administration had been made, and they hadnt been informed of the value of Mr Ds 
entire estate. The value of the bonds was £1,575, which is within the £5,000 limit set 
out in the NS (No.2) Regulations, permitting bonds to be repaid without probate being provided. I also note that in the absence of any details about other assets owned by 
the estate, an estate owning assets of this value, would widely be considered to be a 
small estate. So, on that basis I think it was reasonable for NS&I to pay the funds to 
Mrs B, on the basis of the documentation shed provided. And I also note the funds 
were paid to Mrs B to hold on behalf of the estate.
So, the question Im being asked to decide here, is whether or not NS&I should be 
required to pay the compensation again  but this time, to another representative of 
the estate of Mr D. Having carefully considered the available evidence, I dont think it 
should. Im currently of the view that NS&I acted reasonably, based on the 
information it had as at March 2019, in paying the funds to the estate, (albeit not to 
the person actually authorised by law to represent the estate, as would later become 
apparent). If I was to require NS&I to pay the funds again, but to Ms D, that would 
result in the estate receiving the funds twice, putting it in a better position that it 
would have been in, had NS&I paid the funds to Ms D in the first place.
So, based on the information available to NS&I, when it repaid the bonds to Mrs B, I 
dont think it did anything wrong here. And even if Id provisionally decided to uphold 
this complaint, any award Id make would be to put the estate in the same position it 
would have been in, had the funds been paid to Ms D, as its representative, rather 
than Mrs B.
In my view, regardless of who holds the funds, theyve been received on behalf of the 
estate, and are held on trust for the estate. If Mrs B isnt properly authorised to hold 
the funds on behalf of the estate, it follows that she needs to pass the funds on to Ms 
D, who is properly authorised by law to represent the estate. So, theres nothing 
further that NS&I would need to do here. It seems to me that as Mrs B has received 
the repayment of the bonds directly, on the basis that she held herself out to NS&I as 
the legal representative of the estate, that is a private civil matter between Mrs B and 
Ms D; it is not an appropriate matter for the Financial Ombudsman Service, which 
deals with disputes between authorised firms and their customers.
I also understand that Ms D believes NS&I should pay her compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the way her claim, on behalf 
of the estate, was handled. Id only consider awarding compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, if I was intending to uphold the complaint, which Im currently not. 
However, it might help if I explain to Ms D that as the complaint has been brought by 
the estate, I could only award compensation to the estate, as the complainant, for 
any inconvenience it has suffered. Thats the effect of the legislation which grants our 
service powers to make awards. The awards we make are limited to compensation in 
respect of problems suffered by the complainant. So, as the complainant is the 
estate, I couldnt award Ms D compensation for any distress or inconvenience shes 
suffered.
Now that NS&I are aware that Ms D is the appropriate person to administer the 
estate of Mr D, they should provide her with a copy of the transaction history relating 
to the bonds that she has requested.
I said that I was intending to conclude that NS&I didnt need to take any further steps to 
resolve the complaint.
NS&I responded to say they had nothing further to add.
Ms D responded in some detail, to advise she didnt agree with the provisional decision. I 
would like to thank Ms D for taking the time to provide me with such a comprehensive response. Ive summarised Ms Ds comments, relevant to the key issues Im deciding, in the 
What Ive decided and why, section of this decision, below, where Ive also responded to 
those comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response to the provisional decision, Ms D has provided comments on a number of 
what she considers to be factual inaccuracies in the provisional decision, or an incorrect 
choice of word in certain circumstances. Although I havent responded to each and every 
point raised by Ms D, in this decision, I would like to assure her that Ive read and carefully 
considered all of her submissions. 
Id first like to apologise to Ms D for any upset I may have caused by my choice of words in 
recounting the background to this complaint. It was not my intention to cause any offence. 
Rather, I was paraphrasing the events that had taken place, to provide a summary of 
everything that had occurred.
Having carefully considered all of the available evidence, I havent been persuaded to 
change my decision, so it follows that Im not upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
As I said in my provisional decision, the question I need to decide is whether NS&I acted 
incorrectly in repaying the bonds owned by the estate of Mr D to Mrs B in March 2019. In 
answering that question, Ive thought about what information was provided to NS&I at that 
time by Mrs B. Ive also considered the nature of the information NS&I had from Ms D at that 
time.
Ms D has said that in November 2018 she told NS&I that she was intending to apply for a 
Grant of Administration. She says she spoke to them again about this in February 2019. I 
havent been provided with a record of what was discussed on that call, but I accept its likely 
that Ms D informed NS&I that shed received the Grant of Administration.
However, it doesnt follow that NS&I acted inappropriately in paying the bonds to Mrs B, in 
March 2019. On the one hand NS&I had verbal confirmation from Ms D that she was the 
Administrator of the Estate, and on the other hand they had a copy of a Will that was signed 
in front of a solicitor, who is a current member of the Law Society, and a claim form signed 
the person named on that Will document as the executor. I think it was reasonable, at that 
time, for NS&I to rely on the information that was in front of them, over a verbal assurance 
given by Ms D that she was properly authorised to administer the Estate.
Ms D feels strongly that NS&I should have made more enquiries and carried out an 
investigation into why Mrs B had presented them with a Will at a time when Ms D had told 
them she had a Grant of Administration. However, its outside of NS&Is remit to evaluate 
whether or not a Will is a valid Will  where on the face of the document nothing appears to 
be amiss. That is an issue more suited to be decided by the court. In the absence of any 
evidence, at that time to suggest the Will wasnt valid, I dont agree that NS&I did anything 
wrong by repaying the bonds to Mrs B.
Ms D has also objected to my referring to Mrs B as a representative of the Estate. Again, I 
would clarify that in describing her as such, I am simply referring to how she held herself out 
to NS&I when she submitted the claim form for the repayment of the bonds. I dont think it 
unreasonable to say that a person who is named in a Will as an executor, is holding 
themselves out as a representative of the Estate. Whether or not she in fact was authorised, is not an issue for me to decide. If Ms D wants a definitive answer on that, and the validity of 
the Will, those are a questions she will need to take to the court to be decided.
Ms D has asked for clarification in relation to my reference to a small estate. In England 
and Wales, where a deceased persons estate is less than £5,000 there may be occasions 
on which the assets can be dealt with, without a grant of probate or administration being 
provided. In this case, NS&I had no information to indicate that Mr Ds estate was worth 
more than £5,000 as they only had knowledge of the value of the bonds. So, on that basis 
alone, Im satisfied it was reasonable for NS&I to pay the bonds to Mrs B based on the 
information shed provided. In addition, NS&I are given a legal right to pay out bonds worth 
less than £5,000 by the regulations that Ive referred to, which is consistent with paying 
monies to a recipient on the basis that the asset looks likely to form part of a small estate. 
In her submissions, Ms D also said that I was incorrect to say that regardless of who holds 
the funds, they were received on behalf of the Estate and held in trust. She says that Mrs B 
has no authority, legal or otherwise, to receive funds on behalf of the Estate, and to do so is 
equivalent to theft.
I think Ms D has misunderstood what I meant here. The point I intended to make was that 
because Mrs B held herself out as the executor of the Estate, NS&I repaid the bonds to her, 
to hold for the Estate. They didnt intend pay the bonds to her personally
I remain satisfied that, legally, someone who accidentally receives property belonging to 
another automatically holds it on a resulting trust for the true legal owner. Such a trust 
arises by operation of the law without the need for formalities, such as a written trust deed. 
Ms D has provided nothing to show that my understanding is legally or factually wrong. It is 
my understanding, that on realising Ms D was the legal representative of the Estate, Mrs Bs 
solicitors made enquiries of Ms Ds solicitors with a view to transferring the monies to her. 
Ms D has said that Mrs B hadnt agreed to transfer the funds to Ms D, rather, her solicitors 
had asked for account details to transfer the funds to. However, the relevant point here is the 
indication of a willingness on the part of Mrs B to release the funds to Ms D. But Ms D has 
re-iterated that she wont accept the monies from Mrs B. Instead, she believes NS&I should 
retrieve the monies from Mrs B and repay them to Ms D.
I dont agree. As NS&I havent done anything wrong here, it isnt up to them to put anything 
right. Theyve paid the bonds to a person who held herself out as the representative of the 
Estate. That persons solicitors have asked for bank account details from the legal 
representative of the Estate. If Ms D refuses to accept the funds, that isnt something NS&I 
will be responsible for. And If Mrs B refuses to transfer the funds to the legal representative 
of Mr Ds estate, then that is a civil matter to be resolved through the courts. 
Ms D believes that the question to be answered is not just whether NS&I were wrong to 
repay the bonds to Mrs B but also whether, once they received the Grant of Administration, 
they ought to have retrieved the funds from Mrs B and repaid them to Ms D. However, NS&I 
are not subject to any such obligation. Once theyve repaid the bonds, they have no further 
obligations to the bondholder. 
Ms D has made a number of comments and raised a number of questions that she would 
like an answer to, which I am not addressing in this decision, as I dont consider they are 
relevant to the question Im deciding about whether NS&I have done anything wrong. She 
has asked where the purported Will was, for five months. Shes also said that Mrs B claiming 
the funds in March 2019 without authority, not disclosing to Ms D via her solicitor and 
retaining the funds is tantamount to fraud; and is a criminal matter and not civil matter. Ms D has also provided more detail in relation to the question of whether or not the October 2018 
purported Will was fraudulently signed. 
In making my final decision, it is not relevant, nor appropriate for me to consider whether or 
not Mrs B has committed fraud, or whether or not the Will was fraudulently entered into. 
These issues are better suited to be decided by the court because unlike this service, a court 
will have the power to summons third-party witnesses and hear evidence being cross-
examined under oath. Such rigorous formal procedures and /or rules of evidence are more 
appropriate where serious allegations of fraud are concerned. The discovery process which 
forms part of the court process would also be more suited to responding to a number of the 
requests for clarification Ms D has made in her response to the provisional decision. We are 
an informal alternative to the courts and our processes dont lend themselves to the same 
degree of fact-finding. 
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, and in this final decision, I remain of the 
view that NS&I havent done anything wrong in repaying the bonds to Mrs B, and I dont 
require them to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
It is for Ms D and Mrs B to work out how the bond monies make their way to the correct legal 
owner. That is not a matter which this service is able to resolve because it is a private civil 
dispute; and we only have power over disputes between regulated financial services firms 
and their customers (or other limited classes of complainant).
I would also add that if Ms D doesnt accept this decision then it will not affect her legal rights 
and she will be free to seek a resolution to her complaint from another forum.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Savings & Investments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman