DRN-2665405
The complaint
Mrs L complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs G, that Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited is unwilling to make a substantial refund of the lump sum 
premium the late Mrs G paid for an immediate need annuity.
Mrs L is represented by Mr L in this matter.
What happened
In late 2019 the late Mrs G took out an immediate need annuity, called a Lifetime Care Plan 
with Legal & General. Mrs G paid a lump sum of over £170,000 into the plan. It appears the 
plan had a 25% additional premium protection attached to it. I understand that the plan was 
arranged for Mrs G by an independent financial adviser.
Very sadly Mrs G passed away in May 2020.
As the plan was only in place for a few months before Mrs G died, Mr L says Mrs Gs estate 
has suffered a loss of around £130,000. 
Mr L asked Legal & General if it would refund a substantial part of the premium Mrs G had 
paid into the plan, in view of the short time the annuity was in place. 
Legal & General responded to say that it wasnt willing to refund any of the premium used to 
purchase the annuity. It explained that in the Key Features document for its Lifetime Care 
Plan it set out:
The monthly Payments will stop when you die. There is a risk that the total amount of 
monthly Payments we make, plus any Payment we make to your Estate from Guaranteed 
Premium Protection or Additional Premium Protection, may be less than the Premium you 
paid for the Plan.
It said this risk should have been explained by the financial adviser that arranged the plan for 
Mrs G.
Mr L was not satisfied with Legal & Generals response and referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator noted that Mr L said there wasnt any contractual dispute. But Mr L wanted 
Legal & General to consider the merits of this complaint with compassion. 
Having considered the matter our investigator said that he couldnt reasonably require Legal 
& General to make any refund of the premium the late Mrs G paid. He said he was satisfied 
that Legal & General had administered the policy correctly, in line with its terms and 
conditions and there was no requirement for it to agree to the estates request for a 
substantial refund. 
He also said he agreed with Legal & Generals position that if it were to agree to refund 
some of the premium the late Mrs G had paid, this wouldnt be fair to customers who had 
found themselves in this position previously and hadnt received a refund. He said it could 
also set a precedent for any future customers, or their representatives, who found 
themselves in a similar position.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he accepted that Legal & 
General had not breached the terms of the policy the late Mrs G took out. He said that he 
had referred the matter to this service as  we wish L&G to adopt a flexible approach and 
exercise discretion and compassion in favour of Mrs. G's family and estate, given the 
circumstances of this case, rather than simply saying this is what the annuity contract says 
and we have done nothing wrong..
He also said that Legal & General had said it was unable to exercise discretion in this case 
as a result of regulatory requirements, and in particular, the requirement to treat customers 
fairly. He said he would like this service to  indicate that exercising the discretion we seek 
would not amount to L&G acting in breach of regulatory rule(s) designed to ensure fairness, 
which we understand is something L&G is concerned about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr L feels Legal & General should exercise discretion when considering 
his request for a substantial refund of the premium the late Mrs G paid. But having carefully 
considered this matter I cant reasonably find that Legal & General has acted incorrectly, or 
treated Mrs Gs estate unfairly. Ill explain why.
As Mr L is aware, when Legal & General offered the late Mrs G the terms it did for the 
Lifetime Care Plan, it guaranteed to make payments for the rest of Mrs Gs life. If Mrs G had 
lived for longer than Legal & Generals actuaries had expected it may well have made a loss 
on the policy. In such a situation it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for the insurer to cancel the 
policy or ask Mrs G to pay more into the plan. Likewise, I cant reasonably say that it is 
unfair or unreasonable for Legal & General to say it is not willing to refund part of the 
premium Mrs G paid, as she sadly died sooner than expected.
The nature of insurance is that the premiums and risk are pooled so that, on average and 
over time, the level of premiums collected cover the amount paid out by the insurer. If Mrs G 
had not wanted or needed the security of a guaranteed monthly payment for the rest of her 
life, she could have used her savings to fund her care costs, rather than the annuity she took 
out in late 2019. This is something her financial adviser would have discussed with Mrs G (or 
her representative) before the plan was set up.
I note that Mr L has said he thinks Legal & General is unable to exercise discretionas a 
result of regulatory requirements, and in particular, the requirement to treat customers fairly. 
There is no regulatory requirement that would prevent Legal & General from choosing to 
make a refund  but as I set out above, I dont think it is acting unfairly in turning down Mr Ls 
request for a refund. Were Legal & General to make refunds where it had paid out less to an 
individual policy holder than the premium they had paid, the cost of providing its annuity 
products would have to rise to reflect the fact that there was no pooling of risk.I do understand that this is not the decision Mr L was hoping for. But having carefully 
considered this complaint I cant reasonably say that Legal & General has acted incorrectly 
in this matter, nor do I think it has acted unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and the 
estate of Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman