DRN-3126850
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited administered his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs policy taken out through Hastings came up for renewal and it sent him notice of 
automatic renewal with the same insurer but at an increased price. Mr H had already found 
cheaper cover from Hastings on an online comparison site. So he told Hastings to cancel the 
renewal, but it wasnt able to locate a payment on its system. Mr H then called again to 
request a refund. 
Mr H said he hadnt consented to automatic renewal and was inconvenienced by Hastings. 
Hastings agreed it should have told Mr H that his payment couldnt be stopped as the direct 
debit was being processed. It said it refunded the payment before Mr H contacted it again.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
renewal documents made it clear that the policy would automatically renew. He thought 
Hastings had acted fairly in renewing the policy with the same insurer as Mr H hadnt 
requested otherwise. He thought Hastings wasnt responsible for setting the premium. And 
he thought Hastings had acted promptly to reimburse Mr Hs premium after it had given him 
incorrect information. 
Mr H replied that he wanted an ombudsmans review. So his complaint has some to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H wanted to pay a fair price for his policy. Hastings said that it 
renewed his policy with the same insurer as the previous year. The insurer, not Hastings, is 
responsible for setting the premium. So I cant say that Hastings is responsible for the 
renewal premium quoted. 
Mr H thought Hastings should have offered him the cheapest premium available for his 
cover. But Hastings isnt a comparison site. I can see that its renewal documents clearly 
advised Mr H to shop around as he may be able to find cheaper cover elsewhere:
A lot can change in a year, so please check this cover still meets your needs. You have 
been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a 
better price if you shop around.
And I can see that Mr H did this before his policy renewed. So I cant say that Hastings 
treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr H thought it wasnt clear that his policy would automatically renew. But I disagree. I think 
the renewal documents state clearly in the header and the text that the policy would renew 
unless Mr H contacted Hastings. And I think Mr H was aware of this from previous renewals 
when he called Hastings and obtained a cheaper price. Also, I can see that Hastings 
renewal pack made Mr H aware that he could opt out of automatic renewal if he chose to do 
so. 
Mr H called Hastings on the same day his policy automatically renewed to cancel the 
renewal. Hastings explained that the payment wasnt showing on its system as it takes 24 
hours to process. So it incorrectly told Mr H that no payment had been taken, when it was 
being processed. 
Mr H called Hastings again to seek a refund, but by that time Hastings had already 
reimbursed him by cheque. It then cancelled this and made a direct payment to Mr Hs 
account. So I think Hastings acted promptly to reimburse Mr H. It did tell him, incorrectly, that 
no payment had been taken. And Mr H made one further call to Hastings to pursue his 
refund. I dont think this inconvenience requires any further redress than the apology that 
Hastings has already made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman