DRN-1284640
The complaint
Mr F complains about the information given to him by Swinton Group Ltd when he called to 
discuss his insurance options for his motorbike. He says that as a result of the information 
given to him by Swinton, he may not have been covered under his previous policies and for 
his new motorbike. And this led to him selling it. 
What happened
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said on the available evidence, 
Swinton had provided conflicting information when it told Mr F his motorbike wasnt covered 
because it didnt have an MOT. She felt that if the incorrect advice hadnt been given
Mr F wouldve insured his bike and continued to enjoy his hobby of restoring motorbikes in 
his spare time. So, Swinton should pay him £150 in compensation. 
Swinton has asked for an ombudsman review. It said it had provided slightly conflicting 
advice over whether it could or couldnt provide cover. But it added that as a claim hadnt 
occurred Mr F hadnt suffered any trouble and upset. So, it felt £150 was excessive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Swinton has now confirmed that one of its panel of insurers couldve provided the cover Mr F 
needed and that it wouldve provided cover on his previous policies. Im satisfied from the 
evidence available to me, that this is the case. So, I dont believe Swinton should return the 
premiums Mr F has paid. 
Swinton has accepted that it couldve communicated with Mr F more clearly here. Having 
reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied this has led to him deciding to sell his bike. There were 
various conversations between Swinton and Mr F where this situation couldve been cleared 
up. I note Swintons final response did say one of its insurers wouldve provided cover. But I 
can understand given the conflicting information Swinton gave why he decided to sell his 
bike. So, Im satisfied he should be compensated for this. 
Putting things right
After considering everything thats happened here, I believe Swinton should pay Mr F £150 
compensation. Fixing motorbikes was a hobby of his and Im satisfied Swintons conflicting 
information led him to sell the bike, which has caused him trouble and upset.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Swinton Group Ltd should pay Mr F £150 in 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman