DRN-4411693
The complaint
Miss K complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) for the way it handled 
her damaged phone and her subsequent complaint about repairs. She wants Inter Partner to 
reimburse her costs of a new phone and to compensate her for her inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss K had a Xaomi Redmi upgraded version (11 pro) mobile phone. Around June 2022, 
Miss K purchased mobile phone insurance from Inter Partner and specified her phone 
details. 
In July 2022 Miss K accidentally damaged her phone and the screen was broken. She 
submitted a claim, and her phone was sent for the screen to be replaced. 
On 13 July 2022 the phone was returned to Miss K by Inter Partner with a replaced screen. It 
provided a 90-day guarantee for faults relating to the repair. 
Miss K used the phone. She noted that line quality was poor when using the phone and the 
phone could no longer house a second sim as the casing had been changed. She later 
learned that calls she had been making since receiving her phone back were withholding her 
number from the recipient. 
Miss Ks insurance premiums, due on 28 September 2022 and 28 October 2022 were 
unpaid. On 31 October 2022 Inter Partner wrote to Miss K cancelling her policy with 
immediate effect. 
Around 1 November, Miss K contacted Inter Partner to report the fault with her phone. She 
believed these had been caused by the repair. 
Inter Partner refused to consider the faults under the guarantee as it stated that the 
guarantee had expired on 15 October 2022. It also considered that the policy had been 
cancelled so said that Miss K was not able to make any further claim. 
Miss K complained to Inter Partner. Inter Partner did not uphold her complaint. 
Miss K contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not consider that Inter Partner had acted 
unfairly. This was because the faults were reported outside of the guarantee period and 
because the policy had been cancelled.
I sent some further enquiries to the parties and indicated that I did not think that Inter Partner 
has acted in line with the policy terms by cancelling the policy with immediate effect. I 
therefore thought that Inter Partner ought to have treated the policy as continuing and 
considered the faults reported by Miss K as a new claim. 
Inter Partner accepted my preliminary view and offered to replace Miss Ks phone, without 
requiring payment of the missed premiums and the excess. 
This offer has been put to Miss K and she refused it. She reasonably pointed out that she 
had replaced her phone in the interim an had no use for a second phone. 
Inter Partner has then amended its offer to be a cash settlement of the phone, based on the 
value of a refurbished phone, instead of replacement. 
Miss K does not consider that the offer is adequate. She feels that she should be 
compensated for the inconvenience she experienced due to the phone not functioning 
properly, and for the length of time it has taken to reach this point.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss K feels strongly about this matter, but it is important to be clear about 
what responsibilities the insurance provider has, and where it has made mistakes. The 
length of time that it has taken to reach this point is not due to the business so I cannot 
consider this further. 
The terms of the policy allow the business to carry out repairs or replacement of a damaged 
device, and the terms include that Inter Partner may replace a device with a refurbished 
device. 
In this instance, I accept that problems with the phone manifested after the repair of the 
screen was carried out, but I cannot say with certainty that the repair caused these, or that 
they ought to have been considered within the repair guarantee. This would require 
additional evidence which has not been available. 
I am satisfied, however, that Inter Partner did not cancel the policy fairly and so the policy 
ought to have remained in place by the time Miss K reported the later faults. It should have 
considered the faults and either repaired, or replaced the phone in line with the terms. 
If it had learned that these faults were caused by the screen repair, I would expect that it 
repair/replace free of charge. If it considered that the faults were new then it could have 
treated this as a new claim and applied an excess, in addition to deducting any owed 
premiums. 
The business has offered to put Miss K in the position of having a replacement phone, or 
cash settlement as alternative, and to not require the premiums and excess to be paid. 
I consider that this is fair and reasonable, and puts Miss K in the position she ought to have 
been in. 
I appreciate that Miss K was caused inconvenience by the faults, and through having a faulty 
phone for a longer period than necessary, but in my view this is appropriately reflected in the 
offer to waive the excess and premiums. 
It is inevitable that consumers suffer some inconvenience when their items are damaged and 
they have to deal with an insurance claim, and in my view the offer made by Inter Partner is 
fair to reflect the additional inconvenience it has caused. 
Consequently, I think that Inter Partner has made a reasonable offer of settlement and I do 
not ask it to do anything further. Inter Partner must cash settle Miss Ks phone, on the basis of the replacement or cash 
alternative which she was entitled to under the policy terms, without requiring further 
payment from Miss K of either unpaid premiums or a further excess. 
I understand that Miss K does not think this is adequate, but I am satisfied that this is in line 
with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to:
Cash settle Miss Ks phone in line with the policy terms; and
To not require further payment of, or deduct from the settlement, unpaid premiums or 
an excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman