DRN-2405800
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, recorded a default on his 
credit file in relation to a personal loan.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr W was approved for a personal loan of £10,000. The purpose of the loan 
was debt consolidation, but it also included £3,500 of additional borrowing which Mr W 
advised he intended to use to renovate a property he had recently purchased. The monthly 
repayment amount of the loan was approximately £225.
In August 2019 Mr W fell into arrears on the loan repayments. Mr W spoke with Halifax and 
completed an income and expenditure review, at which time it was agreed that Mr W would 
make payments of £250 per month in order to catch up on the arrears owing on the account. 
Mr W maintained these payments for several months after which he began to miss 
repayments once again.
Halifax sent a Notice of Arrears to Mr W on 21 January 2020 and 29 February 2020, at 
which time the arrears on the account stood at approximately £1,445. This later letter 
confirmed that an opportunity still remained for Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
and also advised that if no response or payment was received from Mr W that Halifax might 
choose to end their credit agreement with him. Halifax also sent Mr W a Notice of Default on 
11 February 2020 which required Mr W to take action before 29 February 2020, and which 
advised that a default might be recorded against his credit file if he did not.
Mr W contacted Halifax on 12 March 2020, and again on 13 March 2020, at which time he 
requested that Halifax extend the remaining term of the loan by approximately three and a 
half years and also reduce the interest rate on the loan. This would have resulted in the loan 
repayments being £100 per month over a new six-year term. Halifax didnt feel that it was 
appropriate to change the particulars of the loan so drastically and so they declined Mr Ws 
request. Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome and so he made a complaint to Halifax. 
Because of this, Halifax agreed to apply a 30-day hold, until 13 April 2020, on collections 
activity to enable Mr W some breathing space to work toward a resolution.
On 20 April 2020 Halifax issue a Notice of Termination to Mr W which advised that the credit 
agreement had been ended by Halifax because of non-payment and that a default had been 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W felt that this was unfair, and that Halifax shouldnt have recorded a default while his 
complaint with them about this issue was ongoing. But Halifax said that they had never 
agreed or advised Mr W that collections activities would be stopped during his complaint. 
They had given Mr W a 30-day freeze on collections activities to give him time to make a 
suitable arrangement, but Mr W had not contacted them within that timeframe. Mr W said 
that he had tried to contact Halifax but that the phone lines had been closed because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Halifax didnt agree with this and said that their phone lines had never 
been closed. They did concede that the lines had been busier than usual during the crisis, 
and that waiting times might have been longer, but they confirmed that the lines ultimately 
were open if Mr W had wanted to contact them.
All of which meant that Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint and confirmed their belief that 
they had acted appropriately with regard to the arrears on Mr Ws loan account, including 
recorded a default against Mr Ws credit file. Mr W remained dissatisfied and referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this case, but they agreed with Halifaxs position and 
didnt think that Mr W had been treated unfairly, and so they didnt uphold the complaint 
either. Mr W wasnt happy with this response and so the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W feels strongly about this matter, and he has provided a number of 
detailed responses to our investigator which outline his position in length. I wont go into a 
similar level of detail here, but instead will focus on what I consider to be the key points of 
this complaint. If I dont mention a specific piece of information that Mr W has supplied this 
doesnt mean that I havent read and considered it, but rather that I dont feel that it is 
necessary to reference it in explaining my decision on whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr W has stated that, when taking the loan, his intention was to complete renovations on a 
property which he had recently purchased. These renovations would increase the value of 
the property, and Mr W intended to utilise this additional equity to borrow more on his 
mortgage and pay off the loan in full. However, when Mr W applied to Halifax, who he held 
the mortgage with, following the renovations being completed, his request for additional 
borrowing was declined. 
Mr W therefore considers that the rejection of his application for additional mortgage 
borrowing was a cause for the subsequent missed payments on this loan, and I note that he 
also included in his initial complaint to Halifax the claim that the loan was unaffordable to him 
without the additional mortgage borrowing and so should never have been sold to him.
However, Halifax have confirmed that the loan application was considered on a standalone 
basis. By this I mean that Halifax assessed the affordability of the loan on Mr Ws financial 
circumstances at the time of the application in order to ensure that it was affordable, and that 
this assessment of affordability wasnt dependent upon Mr W obtaining an increase in 
income or capital in the near future  such as additional borrowing on a mortgage. The 
checks that Halifax carried out led them to conclude that the loan would be affordable to Mr 
W regardless of whether he obtained additional borrowing on his mortgage or not.
Halifax have confirmed that these checks included reviewing Mr Ws credit file as well as the 
information supplied by Mr W when loan was applied for, and also other information that 
Halifax held on Mr W at that time. Halifax also noted that while there was an element of new 
borrowing the loan was primarily to be used for debt consolidation, and that this aspect of 
loan served to improve Mr Ws financial position by lowering the monthly repayment amount 
for the portion of the loan being consolidated, albeit at the cost of extending the term.
And so, considering all of the above, its difficult for me to say that Halifax have acted 
improperly in terms of the affordability of the loan. The evidence that Halifax have provided 
demonstrates that the loan looked affordable to Mr W at the time that he applied for it, and also that it was affordable for him on a standalone basis in that the affordability of the loan 
wasnt dependent on Mr W obtaining additional borrowing on his mortgage.
Mr W has also complained that Halifax havent treated him fairly with regard how theyve 
managed his account whilst hes been in financial difficulties, including ultimately recording a 
default on his credit file. In circumstances where a customer finds themselves struggling 
financially and unable to make credit repayments, our service would expect Halifax to treat a 
customer with a degree of sympathy and work positively with that customer to see what can 
be done to help them.
Having reviewed the history of this loan account, Im satisfied that Halifax have done that 
here. I say this because when Mr W contacted Halifax in August 2019 to advise that he was 
struggling to make the scheduled repayments, Halifax undertook an assessment of Mr Ws 
income and expenditure and agreed to a repayment plan of £250 per month to work toward 
clearing the arrears.
I understand that Mr W has questioned whether this payment plan was in fact affordable to 
him and asks why a repayment of £250 per month was agreed when the income and 
expenditure assessment confirmed that his disposable income was £173. However, Halifax 
have explained that the assessment took into consideration the scheduled loan repayment 
as a scheduled expenditure, and that as such the £173 was the amount of disposable 
income Mr W had remaining once all of his outgoing payments, including the scheduled loan 
repayment of approximately £225, had been made. Im satisfied therefore that in asking Mr 
W to clear the arrears by increasing the payments to £250, this additional £25 was 
appropriately assessed as being affordable for Mr W, given that he had £173 of disposable 
income.
Unfortunately, Mr W was only able to make the agreed £250 repayments until December 
2019, after which point no further payment was received by Halifax on the loan. When the 
January 2020 payment wasnt made, Halifax began writing to Mr W and sent several letters 
to his address. Mr W has advised that he didnt receive several of these letters. However, I 
note that the letters were addressed to the address Mr W supplied to this service as his 
contact address. I also note that the all five of the payments which Mr W made toward this 
£250 per month repayment plan were undertaken manually by Mr W, and it follows therefore 
that by not manually making the later payments Mr W would have understood that his loan 
account was falling into arrears.
Mr W has also advised that, when he did contact Halifax in March 2020 and raised a 
complaint, all collections activities should have stopped while the complaint was ongoing. Its 
for a business to decide how they manage their complaints procedure and there is no 
requirement such that a company must stop collections and recoveries when a customer 
raises a complaint against them. In this instance I can find no evidence that Mr W was ever 
informed by Halifax that collections activity would be put on hold while his complaint was 
being investigated. In contrast, the communication I have observed from Halifax to Mr W, 
including the letters sent to Mr W and also my reviews of recorded telephone calls, confirm 
that Halifax were clear to Mr W in regard to the potential consequences of continued non-
payment, including the possibility of a default being recorded on his credit file.
All of which means that I cant say that Halifax have acted unfairly to Mr W here. When Mr W 
was in financial difficulty they worked with him to arrange a repayment plan that was 
affordable for him at that time, and when Mr W ceased making payments toward that 
payment plan they issued communications that were clear in their intent and which provided 
Mr W with a reasonable amount of time to contact Halifax to make an appropriate 
arrangement.Ultimately though, Mr W wasnt able to bring the account back in order and Halifax took 
further action in relation to the debt  as they were entitled to. I realise the impact this have 
on Mr W in terms of his credit file, but Im satisfied that Halifax have acted fairly in taking 
these actions when they did.
I note that Mr W did contact Halifax and offered £100 per month as previously mentioned, 
but this request would have entailed a fundamental rewriting of the credit agreement and 
Halifax were under no obligation to accept it. This is especially in consideration of the 
previous payment plans which Mr W wasnt able to maintain and the lack of communication 
from him in this regard. It follows therefore that I will not be upholding this complaint or 
asking Halifax to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman