DRN-3596105
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Happy Customers Group Ltd (HCG) rejected his claim under s 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty lino. Mr R has acted for Mrs R in this 
complaint, but for simplicity I have referred to Mrs R throughout in this decision.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background at some length in his initial view so I will not 
repeat that detail here. In summary Mrs R bought some lino which was fitted by the supplier. 
We do not have the contract or agreement with either the supplier or HCG, but it has been 
accepted that it was partly funded by a finance agreement with HCG.
Mrs R has explained that they were unable to move a large fridge prior to installation and 
this was moved by the fitter. HCG says it was moved with Mr Rs assistance but he does not 
agree. In any event the lino suffered a tear which the fitter sought to remedy with a hot knife.
After the work was done Mrs R contacted HCG to complain. She said the floor was only 
2mm thick and wasnt suitable for the room it was installed in due to the level of use. She 
also pointed out other defects. She supplied photos but HCG was unable to identify any 
faults from these. It suggested sending a fitter to inspect the problems. 
Mrs R says that she has offered HCG the opportunity to inspect the lino on two occasions. 
HCG says it tried to make contact to do so, but the outcome has been that no inspection has 
taken place.
Mrs R brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that it would be reasonable for 
HCG to be able to inspect the lino and make repairs if appropriate. He reiterated this in a 
second view after Mrs R had submitted further information. She has asked for the matter to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mrs Rs transaction was financed by credit supplied to her by HCG, section 75 of 
the CCA1974 is a factor that needs to be taken into account when dealing with his 
complaint. In simple terms, section 75 gives Mrs R an equal right to claim against HCG or 
the supplier for a breach of contract or misrepresentation..
I have to be satisfied that the installed lino was faulty or not fit for purpose. I have the 
testimony of Mrs R and some photos. I do not have an independent report or comment from 
HCG since it has not inspected the lino.
It is accepted there was a tear caused when the fridge was moved. Mrs R disputes the claim 
that Mr R helped move the fridge. In any event the terms of the installation state that such 
items should be moved in advance of the fitting. Mrs R says that neither she nor Mr R were 
able to move the large fridge and so relied on the fitter. I dont believe it likely that moving 
the fridge was part of the contract and I am not persuaded that HCG can be held liable for 
that damage. Nevertheless I think it would only be reasonable if it sought to remedy the tear.
Mrs R has said there are other areas of damage and HCG says that these may be due to a 
problem with the floor, but without being able to inspect it no firm conclusion can be reached. 
I have looked at the photos and I cannot conclude that there is damage and in the case of 
those supplied more recently I cannot say when this damage occurred.
As for the thickness of the lino I have seen no evidence as to how that was chosen. I am not 
aware of any advice being given by representatives of HCG and so it is difficult to say there 
was any misrepresentation. 
I agree with out investigator that the best solution is for Mrs R to agree with HCG to inspect 
the lino and to make any repairs which may be necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman