DRN-3700802
The complaint
Mr Z complains PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as Prepay Solutions (PPS) blocked 
his account and returned the funds held in it to the sender. 
What happened
In March 2021, PPS restricted Mr Zs account after it received an indemnity from a 
third-party bank as its customer had raised a fraud claim. 
PPS asked Mr Z to provide it information about the funds he had received from the individual 
who had made the claim against him. Mr Z gave PPS some information which he says 
shows the money was from the sale of a car.  
PPS did not find this satisfactory and asked Mr Z for official DVLA evidence which showed 
change of ownership of the car. As Mr Z did not provide this, PPS decided to return the 
remaining funds to the senders account in line with the indemnity raised and closed the 
account. 
Unhappy about this Mr Z complained. PPS did not uphold the complaint but offered Mr Z £20 
compensation for the customer service issues he faced. Mr Z then referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Zs complaint. In summary they found: 
- Mr Z didnt provide DVLA proof hed sold a car. But the other information hed sent, 
including screenshots of message conversations between him and the seller, showed 
the buyer was in possession of the car at the time he made the fraud claim
- The messages showed the buyer wanted funds for repairs to the car, and when he 
didnt get this from Mr Z, he made a fraud claim to his bank. This shows the buyer 
had possession of the car  
- This contrasts with the fraud claim made by the buyer. It appears to be a 
disagreement about repairs once the car had been sold  
- PPS shouldnt have just returned the remaining funds in Mr Zs account because it 
received an indemnity. It should have presented Mr Zs evidence to the third-party 
bank and challenged its customers account of events
- PPS actions have left Mr Z without his funds and it hasnt acted fairly here 
PPS didnt agree and said it dealt with the fraudulent funds indemnity claim in line with its 
own procedures. And it had given Mr Z an opportunity to provide evidence this was a 
legitimate transaction - but what he gave wasnt enough.  
In response, our Investigator said: 
- PPS was entitled to carry out a review of Mr Zs account in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations  especially as it had received a claim from a third-party bank 
- But PPS hasnt acted fairly by returning the funds back to the remitting account. PPS 
should have gone further in its investigations by presenting information from Mr Z 
about selling his car instead of sending the funds back 
- An indemnity doesnt compel the receiving bank to return funds if it establishes after 
carrying out an investigation its customer is entitled to the funds 
- Its not for this service to contact the third-party bank to compensate Mr Z. PPS is the 
respondent firm for this complaint 
As PPS did not agree, the complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman  to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Regulated firms in the UK, like PPS, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having considered PPS reasons for carrying out a review and restricting Mr Zs account, Im 
satisfied it acted fairly by doing this. I would expect a regulated firm to review its customers 
account in the event it received a fraudulent claim from a third-party bank. 
Whilst conducting its review, PPS asked Mr Z to send it evidence of his entitlement to the 
funds. Mr Z provided screenshots which show a price was agreed to sell his car with an 
individual. The screenshots of the message exchange also show the buyer was more than 
likely in possession of the car given he wanted money for repairs that had come to light after 
the sale. 
Mr Z appears to not agree saying he has a valid MOT in place which hasnt expired. The 
buyer then says he will raise a fraud claim if Mr Z doesnt pay for the repair. 
Im persuaded this information, even in the absence of the DVLA information, is enough for 
PPS to have challenged the third-party bank about the legitimacy of its customers claim. To 
put it another way, the evidence strongly suggest Mr Z did sell his car as he asserts. 
So this means I think PPS acted wrongly by returning the funds without carrying out further 
enquires itself. 
PPS say the third-party bank should be asked to compensate Mr Z here. But any loss 
suffered here is down to PPS not acting fairly. So Im satisfied it has to put things right. 
PPS also argue it has followed its own process, and what is expected of it, by returning the 
funds once an indemnity was presented to it. But an indemnity is just a promise between the 
two regulated firms that the receiving bank would have protection if they chose to send the 
money back. It doesnt create any obligation that they have to send the money back.Mr Z hasnt complained about PPS closing his account, so isnt something I necessarily have 
to consider. Having said that, its likely PPS wouldnt have closed the account had it carried 
out proper investigations as outlined above. Mr Z hasnt said the account closure in of itself 
has caused him any further trouble and upset  but the withholding of the funds has. 
Mr Z has said it caused him problems with meeting his other financial commitments. So, I 
will carefully consider this when making an award for compensation. 
Putting things right
PPS should: 
- Pay Mr Z the funds which were returned to the third-party bank 
- 8% simple interest should be added to this from the date it was removed from the 
account up until settlement 
- Pay Mr Z £75 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited should now 
put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman