DRN-1563499
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the poor service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as 
First Direct  and says it failed to act on her instructions with regard to her account or reply to 
her letters of complaint.
What happened
Mrs T says she called First Direct in March 2019 to let it know that she was moving house 
and to cancel her direct debits. 
Mrs T didnt receive any confirmation so in May she wrote to First Direct to explain that shed 
mislaid her account details in the move and the problems shed had as a result in logging in. 
She said shed been asked to call in but this was difficult for her because of her work and 
caring responsabilities and when she had managed to do so, shed been cut off. She asked 
First Direct to confirm that her direct debits had now been cancelled.  
Mrs T says she didnt get any reply to this so she wrote again in July 2019 and sent a third 
letter of complaint in September 2019. Mrs T feels First Direct should compensate her for its 
poor customer service and its failure to contact her, as well as for the additional costs shes 
incurred as a result of the delay in cancelling her direct debits.
First Direct said it had no record of a call in March and although it had received a letter from 
Mrs T in February 2019, that was on a different issue.  It said following Mrs Ts letter in May 
2019, and again after the one in July, it had replied to her at the address shown on her 
letters. Unfortunately these had been returned Gone Away but it had also tried to contact 
Mrs T by phone and by email although without success. In the circumstances it didnt agree 
it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said First Direct had sent 
several letters to Mrs T in response to her letters. Although Mrs T hadnt received any letters, 
shed seen First Direct had relied on the information provided by Mrs T so she couldnt agree 
it had made a mistake. Shed asked first Direct about the call in March but it had no record of 
this. This might be because Mrs T hadnt been able to pass the security checks and if that 
was the case then she wouldnt have expected it to have made changes to her account at 
that time. In the circumstances she didnt feel First Direct had done anything wrong so she 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mrs T disagreed and said First Direct should be able to provide a copy of the call. She asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where there is no information on any point  or the information available is incomplete or 
disputed - Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more 
likely than not to have happened taking into account all the circumstances of this case.
Its clear Mrs T feels very strongly about the problems shes had in contacting First Direct. I 
appreciate how frustrating that must be. However, having looked at the information available 
I dont consider First Direct is responsible for this as Ill now explain.
Mrs T says she first called the bank in March to make some changes to her account. First 
Direct however says it has no record of this call or of any other calls from Mrs T around this 
time.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs T did call in but, as shes explained, shed mislaid her log in 
details after moving house and wasnt able to pass security. I think its probable this is why 
theres no record of a call on her account. Id also add that, in those circumstances, First 
Direct wouldnt have been able to make changes to her account because, without 
verification, it couldnt have been sure it had the correct authorisation to do so and Mrs T 
would still have had to write in or visit a branch to confirm any changes.
Mrs Ts explained why it was so difficult for her to call in to the bank to re-set her account 
details and the problems she had in trying to log in. Ive every sympathy for the situation she 
found herself in but Ive seen that First Direct tried a number of different ways to contact Mrs 
T, including offering to call at a set time if that would help, and I dont think there was much 
more it could reasonably have done to help without being able to speak to Mrs T direct.
Im also satisfied that First Direct didnt ignore the letters Mrs T sent it in May July and 
September. Its provided copies of its replies that show they were sent to the address used 
by Mrs T on her letters to the bank. Looking at Mrs Ts current address, however, it seems 
the house number used at that time was incorrect. It seems most likely that this is why the 
letters were returned unread but in the circumstances, I cant reasonably agree First Direct 
was responsible for this.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs T was hoping for but, for the reasons given, I cant agree 
First Direct has made a mistake so I wont be asking it to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman