DRN-3728708
The complaint
Mr R complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Openmoney Advisor Services Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to it as OAS. 
What happened
Mr R approached OAS to discuss his pension and retirement needs in 2017. The information 
OAS gathered about Mr R was broadly as follows:
Mr R was 52 years old and in good health. He was earning £33,000 (gross) per year. 
Hed indicated he might like to retire at the age of 60 but accepted this would depend 
on his financial circumstances at the time.
Mr R was divorced and living with an elderly relative. He had two grown-up children 
who were not financially dependent on him. Mr R had no demonstrable savings or 
investments. He had a small loan which he was paying down. He described himself 
as having a very basic lifestyle with a low cost of living.
Mr R had a number of pensions. The pension hes complaining about here was an 
OPS that he was a deferred member of, having been previously employed between 
2001-2013. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Rs OPS was 
approximately £131,000, with a normal retirement age of 65. 
Mr R also had defined contribution (DC) pensions. These are pensions where the 
benefits provided depend on the value of the contributions made and the investment 
growth. So, the investment risks are borne by the individual consumer. One pension 
had a fund valued at the time of £52,000. A second was valued at around £35,000. I 
understand Mr R was also a member of his then employers scheme as of 2017  
this was another DC scheme. None of these DC pensions are the subject of this 
complaint.
In May 2017, OAS advised Mr R to transfer out of his defined-benefit OPS and use the funds 
to invest in a personal pension plan operated by a large and well-known pension provider. 
Mr R says he was given unsuitable advice by OAS. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said we shouldnt uphold it  he thought Mr R was motivated to transfer his 
OPS so he could provide a legacy for his sons. So, overall, he thought the advice was 
suitable. Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) on this case on 2 September 2022 inviting either party to 
provide any new information or arguments they wanted me to consider. OAS sent me a 
response which Ive considered. Mr R didnt submit anything else and said he agreed with 
what Id said in the PD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, OAS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in the consumers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at 
all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in Mr Rs best interests.
Financial viability 
As I explained in my PD, from a financial viability perspective, transferring out of Mr Rs OPS 
was going to leave him with lower pension benefits overall. I explained that OAS 
acknowledges that Mr Rs pension funds outside the scheme would not grow to an extent to 
make transferring worthwhile. However, OAS says it was clear about this and that Mr R was 
determined to go ahead because he felt there were good reasons to transfer out, mainly 
relating to death benefits and more flexibility. Ill come back to these points later.  
However, to clearly demonstrate by just how much I think Mr Rs pension benefits would be 
lower, Ive used the methodology we normally follow when assessing these types of transfer. 
In my view, this clearly shows just how much he would be losing out.
 
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. The critical yield required to match Mr Rs benefits at age 65 was 
7.75% if he took a full pension and 6.04% if he took a tax-free cash element and a reduced 
pension. The critical yields for retiring earlier, at 60, were much higher at 13% and 10.15% 
respectively.
The advice was also given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate here was 4% per year for 12 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all these figures into account and Mr Rs moderate attitude to risk, as assessed 
by OAS. There would be little point in him giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
the critical yield figures were significantly higher than the discount rate and the regulators 
middle projections, even before the costs and charges of operating the transferred funds 
were included. Further to this, Ive also noted that in the pension transfer report, in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by Mr Rs 
existing scheme at retirement, the estimated fund required was £265,539. In my view, this 
provides a notable window into the value of the guarantees and benefits typically found 
within this type of pension - and just how much Mr R would be giving up by transferring out.
I therefore think discount rates, the regulators standard projections and the other 
comparisons Ive made clearly show that Mr R was highly likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than his OPS at retirement, as a result of investing in line 
with that attitude to risk.
OAS provided a number of financial planning projection models which it says shows Mr R 
would have been able to meet his needs in retirement. OAS hasnt really relied on the 
pension transfer being better for Mr R from a financial perspective. And in any event, the 
models Ive considered arent like-for-like comparisons with Mr Rs pension. As well as not 
being inclusive of costs and charges, the benefits and guarantees found within Mr Rs OPS 
were not matched in these models. 
For these reasons therefore, I dont think a transfer out of the OPS was in Mr Rs best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as OAS has argued here. So, Ive considered these other areas below.
Flexibility and other issues
In May 2017, OAS issued a suitability report and recommended that Mr R should transfer out 
of his OPS and invest the proceeds in a lifestyle fund with a fund manager. OAS based this 
recommendation on what it said were Mr Rs objectives. Ive summarised these as follows:
It would enable him to meet his objective of moving his pension to one better suited 
to his needs.
He would improve the death benefits available to his children. 
He would have the flexibility to access his retirement benefits from the age of 55.
He would have further flexibility in terms of only drawing the amount of income he 
actually needed (using drawdown).
He could access 25% of the funds free of tax  more than under his OPS.
Hed have control of his funds, holding them in his sole name with the ability to view 
them online. 
He would not be subject to the deficit currently in the OPS.
I have considered all these apparent objectives in turn with great care and I dont consider 
there to be any evidence that transferring out of his OPS better suited his needs. 
Ill begin with the death benefits, as a primary objective for transferring was said to be Mr Rs 
desire to see his pension go to his children if he died, rather than to die with him. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Mr R was divorced and from what Ive 
seen, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an 
attractive feature to him. He said he didnt want his pension to "die with him.However, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. OASs point is that Mr R was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for more flexible death benefits 
because he felt hed have enough money in his retirement with his state pension, payable at 
the age of 67 in his case, and other (DC) pensions.
Of course, this objective may not be completely without merit when looked at in isolation. 
However, it was recorded at the time that Mr R was in good health. So at the age of 52, 
given longevity expectations, the circumstances in which this money could be paid to his 
children could be said to be many years in the future. And whether the death benefits here 
were improved following a transfer depended on how much remained in the pension fund at 
the point of Mr Rs passing. Again, given average life expectancy, and the size of his fund, I 
think it was possible this fund could be depleted prior to Mr Rs death, particularly if Mr Rs 
needs were not met by his state pension alone. And if investment returns were poor, it could 
provide his sons with very little or no death benefits at all. I dont think that this possibility 
was ever addressed by OAS or made clear to Mr R.
Also, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his adult children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think OAS 
should have instead explored life insurance for him much more thoroughly. I can see this 
was briefly mentioned but it appears to me to have been abruptly dismissed on the basis of 
Mr R not wanting to pay a monthly premium. No life policy estimates appear to have been 
obtained and in my view, the reluctance to pay for a monthly life insurance policy conflicts 
with what Ive seen elsewhere about Mr R having a substantial monthly disposable income 
available. 
So, I dont think this was explored enough by OAS during the course of the advice. At 52 
years old, insurance may have still been a reasonably affordable option for Mr R, particularly 
if a time-limited, rather than a whole-life policy was considered. Exploring this option would 
seem to have been a very worthwhile exercise, when considering against giving up the 
benefits of a DB scheme solely for this reason. 
Very much linked to this issue, Ive also seen that it was Mr Rs wish to pass on some of the 
funds to his children upon them marrying. We now know he withdrew the sum of £20,000 for 
this in 2019. At the time of the advice therefore, I dont doubt that this might have sounded 
like a very good idea to Mr R and something he was genuinely hoping to do. However, in 
providing regulated financial advice, OASs job wasnt simply to transact what Mr R thought 
he wanted. Its role was to really understand his needs and to provide advice that was in his 
best interests. And I dont think OAS explored alternative options to fund this aspiration with 
any vigour.
Under the pension freedom legislation that had recently been brought in, Mr R was still over 
two years short of being able to access these funds if his intention was to give some of the 
money away. I havent seen any compelling evidence that the amount of monies involved, or 
when he wanted to gift it, had been thought through at the time to an extent where Mr R 
knew how and when this was going to work. 
Of course, we know that Mr R already had other DC pensions in existence. Ive not seen 
evidence the OAS adviser explored the option of accessing these schemes instead to 
prevent transferring out of his OPS and so losing the valuable benefits and guarantees that 
came with this DB pension. Mr R could choose the beneficiaries of these pension funds on 
his death  so he already had a means of ensuring a substantial part of his pension didnt 
die with him.OAS may also argue that if Mr R took his OPS benefits at age 60 or age 65, he would have 
too much income in retirement, given his modest outgoings and his state pension 
entitlement. But even if that was the case, Mr R couldve simply redirected any excess 
income into a tax-efficient savings vehicle, which also couldve been used to provide a 
legacy for his children.
So, I think its fair to say here that for the passing on of gifts or leaving a legacy, Mr Rs other 
pension funds  already DC schemes  would have been the more obvious choices with 
which to fund this aspiration. And if taking his pension benefits from his OPS gave him too 
much income, this couldve been saved for the benefit of his children. In short, Mr R simply 
didnt need to transfer his OPS to enhance his death benefits; in my view, viable alternatives 
were already available and posed less risk to Mr R than giving up his guaranteed pension.
Next, I considered the issue of flexibility as was mentioned as an objective in transferring 
out. However, in my view, flexibility  and what this really meant - was poorly defined by 
OAS. It mentioned in the suitability report that Mr R would have access to the transferred 
OPS funds at the age of 55. But while thats true, he also had access at that age to his other 
pensions. 
On the evidence Ive seen, Mr R didnt appear to have any other specific need to access his 
pension savings at 55. OASs assessment of his retirement needs was, at best, very basic 
indeed and it had already made it clear that he intended to work to at least the age of 60, 
and possibly to 65. According to OASs own figures, Mr R had monthly disposable income of 
around £1,000 and as he was only 52 and intending to work for quite a few more years, its 
reasonable for me to assume he didnt need access to this pension at 55. Even if he did 
intend to give some money away, Ive already explained above how his existing DC 
pensions could have been used. However, theres no indication in the documents Ive seen 
as to why he couldnt also consider gifting money from having saved from his disposable 
income, as Ive referred to above.
Theres also no evidence that Mr R had the capacity or desire to manage this pension 
himself if he transferred it out. He was in a large scheme supported by trustees so the 
ongoing management of the OPS was something that required very little, if any, effort from 
Mr R himself. I acknowledge he had other DC pensions, but Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that Mr R wanted direct involvement in managing his investments or in the 
selection of funds to such an extent that transferring out was necessary. OAS said he 
wanted control of his funds in his sole name, but in my view, what this comment actually 
means just isnt clear. So again, this seems no more than a stock objective, unrelated to Mr 
Rs circumstances. 
Similarly, OAS implied that accessing a full 25% tax-free cash of his transferred funds was a 
positive reason to transfer. We do often see that the amount of tax-free cash which can be 
accessed from a personal scheme can be higher than from DB schemes; this is because the 
benefits of the schemes are valued and calculated differently. However, in this case, Ive 
noted the estimates showed that if he remained inside his OPS, Mr Rs tax-free cash 
element at 65 could be £33,369  and at the age of 60 it could be £30,544. These sums 
arent demonstrably different from what he could get by accessing the funds in a personal 
pension, although hed be able to access the latter sooner. 
Nevertheless, OAS should have been pointing out that accessing tax-free cash doesnt 
come without consequences as by removing money from his pension, Mr R would have less 
left for his ongoing retirement plans. In any event, there was no specific reason to access 
cash from the OPS at the age of 55, as Ive explained; money was available elsewhere to 
him. Overall, I dont think Mr R had a genuine need to access cash earlier than the OPSs 
normal scheme retirement age. Finally, I also cant see evidence that Mr Rs future needs had been analysed to an extent 
that showed he had a strong need for a variable income throughout his retirement as 
opposed to receiving a steady and guaranteed income via his OPS. Ive referred to his other 
pensions, his future state pension and his apparent potential to build some savings in the 
interim periods. 
However, I dont think Mr Rs retirement security was as certain as OAS portrayed. It said he 
didnt need his existing OPS because he lived simply and didnt have many expenses. It also 
said hed be able to get by on his state pension. But his retirement was still some way off. 
And if Mr Rs circumstances changed, or if, for example, he needed to pay for care later in 
life, then he may well have been more reliant on his OPS benefits than he believed at this 
time. So, I dont think advising Mr R to give this up so far from his retirement was in his best 
interests. And the assertion that he would inherit his relatives property was, in my view, 
poorly evidenced. Ive seen nothing that shows the value of any future inheritance he might 
receive. Nor did I see whether others might benefit from such an inheritance. 
Stability of the OPS
Although Ive seen some comments from the time of the advice, about Mr Rs OPS being in 
deficit, I dont think there is any credible evidence to suggest this was a meaningful part of 
the decision to transfer out. Nor does it affect my decision in any way.
With these types of DB schemes, its not uncommon for there to be deficits and also for large 
companies to be making payments to address future shortfalls in the funding of the scheme. 
This appears to have been the case with Mr Rs OPS and from what Ive seen the funding of 
his OPS was not in a position such that Mr R should have genuinely been concerned about 
its overall security. I saw there was clear evidence that the company involved had a 
comprehensive plan to make regular payments to address this shortfall. 
In any event, this was not a substantial issue in this case. However, even if the scheme did 
end up moving to the pension protection fund (PPF), I think OAS should have explained at 
the time that this was not as concerning as Mr R might have otherwise thought. The figures 
Ive seen in OASs pension transfer analysis shows Mr R was still unlikely to match, let alone 
exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal 
pension. If any of this had been a relevant factor, I would have expected a comprehensive 
commentary from OAS at the time it gave its advice, explaining all the relevant issues.
Suitability of investments
OAS recommended that Mr R invest in funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr R, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
in the personal pension funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Response to my PD
As mentioned earlier in this decision, OAS replied to my PD making a number of points. Im 
grateful for the time taken for OAS to set out its position again. Ive read everything that it 
has said, but in general terms, almost all of OASs points are a re-emphasis of what it has 
already provided. In short, it has furnished nothing new.
OAS highlighted, as I did in my PD, that our investigator had arrived at a different decision 
to myself. However, I should explain that investigators try to informally resolve complaints to our Service. And they issue views rather than decisions. OAS will Im sure know that under 
the relevant legislation and scheme rules it is the role of the Ombudsman to issue decisions. 
So, although OAS makes a significant attempt to point out the differences in what our 
investigator said and what I have said, Im afraid this is simply not relevant.
Similarly, OAS has asked that a committee rather than myself should issue a decision  
again I refer OAS to the relevant rules of our scheme.
In my PD, I explained the rationale for my decision. I accept OAS does not agree with it, but 
Im afraid its reply, long as it is, contains nothing new for me to consider and simply repeats 
that Mr Rs desire was to leave a legacy for his grown-up children by transferring out of his 
OPS. However, I comprehensively dealt with this issue in my PD. Similarly with other issues, 
such as explaining the financial disbenefits of transferring, Mr Rs apparent desire for 
flexibility and control of his pension, and the existence of other pensions he could have 
accessed, OAS had virtually nothing new to add in my view other than comments it made 
about Mr Rs other pensions.
OAS now distances itself from these pensions by saying it did not provide advice relating to 
these and did not have access to details about them. However, as these formed a very 
relevant part of Mr Rs overall financial situation, OAS should have taken these pensions into 
account. That it failed to do so further demonstrates the substantial failings in its overall 
advice, for which Mr R had paid. 
Ive nevertheless thought carefully about all the arguments again and Ive revisited my 
decision in the light of OASs reply. 
 
Summary
In my decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. 
Mr R was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income with his OPS. However, 
by transferring out, he was very likely to obtain overall lower retirement benefits. The critical 
yield, the discount rate and the regulators growth projections all indicated that Mr R would 
be unlikely to grow his funds outside the scheme, to an extent that made transferring 
worthwhile. And OASs own analysis provided an insight into the cost of the valuable 
guarantees and benefits contained within his OPS which Mr R was advised to give up. 
OAS hasnt offered any view which disagrees with this. But to be clear, from a financial 
viability perspective, the transfer out was not in his best interests.
There were also no other compelling reasons to transfer out of this pension scheme. Mr R 
was 52 years old. He hadnt yet made any retirement plans and OAS couldnt realistically 
say what his needs in retirement would be. OASs advice was predicated on what it said 
would be more flexible death benefits and an ability to give his children some money after he 
reached 55.
However, Ive explained in this decision how this advice was fundamentally flawed. This was 
Mr Rs largest pension and his others were already in DC schemes which he could access at 
55 anyway. So, even if his objectives were as stated by OAS, there were other avenues it 
could have explored when giving Mr R advice. 
I went on to explain why there werent any other viable reasons to transfer out. There was no 
evidence Mr R needed the flexibility OAS said he wanted, which in any event was poorly 
defined. Nor was there evidence Mr R wanted to play an active role in managing his funds or 
investments.Of course, Ive considered, even if Mr R had been advised to remain in his OPS, whether he 
would have still wanted to transfer out anyway. I acknowledge Mr R may have genuinely 
wanted to have passed on money to his grown-up children and that he had genuine 
concerns that his pension would die with him. But as Ive explained, there were much better 
ways of still doing this through life insurance, monthly savings and mostly, through his other 
(DC) pensions. 
OAS failed to point these other options out  if it had, I think Mr R would have considered 
these options to have met his needs without compromising his own retirement. His OPS 
provided a guaranteed and dependable source of income for Mr Rs retirement, and its true 
value was undersold to him when OAS was providing its advice. Mr R paid substantially for 
the advice; so all these things assure me that if the advice had been to stay in his pension, I 
think thats what Mr R would have done.
Accordingly, I still think theres very strong evidence here that OAS should have advised Mr 
R to remain in his OPS; had that advice been given, I think Mr R wouldve accepted it. In 
light of this, I think OAS should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for OASs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
OAS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
OAS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date OAS receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes OAS to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I am aware that on 2 August 2022,  the FCA launched a consultation on changes to this 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 
2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current methodology in 
FG17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its 
review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the 
methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
Nevertheless, the basic objective of the proposed amendments still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 during the consultation. But until 
changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation 
to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into force after the 
consultation has concluded.
I think its fair for me to give Mr R the same choice. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. And, having reviewed the FCAs consultation and 
its proposed updates to the methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed changes under 
consultation would, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr R in 
this case.
Therefore, if Mr R wishes to have his redress calculated in line with any new or updated 
guidance and rules, I intend to ask OAS to undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
updated methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather 
than to calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  As I have set out 
above, it is not certain when any updated rules and guidance will come into effect, but the 
FCA has said that it expects this will be in early 2023. 
As noted above, the FCA has stated that the aim of any updated  guidance and rules would 
remain the same as in FG17/9, which is to put consumers in the position they would be in if 
they had remained in their DB scheme (recognising actual reinstatement into the former 
scheme might not be possible).This Service cant advise Mr R on whether or not he should wait. The FCA has published 
some information and answers to likely questions consumers might have about how redress 
is calculated.  I recommend Mr R reads this information before he makes his choice. 
This can be found here: https://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/pension-transfer-defined-
benefit/redress-calculations
Mr R should let me know in response to this view whether he wishes for OAS to calculate 
any compensation that may be owed to him: 
a) in line with the guidance in FG17/9 (as recommended above)
or 
b) in line with any new rules or guidance that are expected to come into force in early 
2023. 
If I dont receive a response on this point, Ill assume Mr R doesnt wish to wait and Ill 
continue to recommend compensation to be calculated in line with FG17/9.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the outcome of the 
consultation is published, Id expect OAS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Im now upholding this complaint and require Openmoney 
Advisor Services Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require
Openmoney Advisor Services Ltd to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Openmoney Advisor Services Ltd to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Openmoney Advisor Services Ltd pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Openmoney Advisor 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman