DRN-4133677
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of, and in his capacity as director of, his limited company who Ill
refer to as C.
C complains about Bank of Scotland plcs (BoS) process for resetting an online password. C
says that because of BoSs process, it hasnt had access to the online account for around six
weeks.
Because Mr C has referred the complaint on behalf of C, I have mainly referred to Mr C
throughout this decision.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond 
with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my final decision on the 
matter. 
For clarity, the finding in my provisional decision was that I didnt think BoS had done 
anything wrong  and so it didnt need to do anything more for C and I didnt think it needed 
to pay C any compensation.
I have copied my provisional decision below which also forms part of this final decision.
On 21 June 2022, Mr C entered the password to log into Cs online banking incorrectly too
many times and as a result, was locked out of Cs online account.
To reset the log in details, BoS required Mr C to reset the password using a card reader and
the authentication card. Mr C says he lost both the card reader and the authentication card
and so couldnt reset the password online straightaway.
Mr C says he couldnt reset the password over the phone and had to order a new card 
reader. 
Mr C says he ordered a card reader twice, but neither of these arrived. As a result of not
being able to access the account for around six weeks, Mr C says he wasnt able to pay
people or take money out of the business. Mr C says C has suffered reputational damage
and he wants compensation for this.
BoS didnt uphold Cs complaint. It explained that the card reader and authentication card
are an integral part of the security process  which protects the account from possible fraud.
So, it hadnt done anything wrong when it asked Mr C to use these things to reset the online
password. While it said that no bank error had occurred, it still offered C £10.
An Investigator also looked into Mr Cs concerns. They thought the complaint should be
upheld, because BoS delayed sending Mr C an authentication card, and so they thought
BoS should pay C £100 to compensate it for this.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators view. He didnt think the compensation was enough.
And he also remained unhappy with BoSs process to reset the online password.
BoS disagreed with the Investigators view too. It said it only became aware Mr C had also
lost the authentication card on 13 July 2022  and it sent this out once it was reported as
lost. So, it didnt think that it should have to pay compensation.
Because neither party agreed with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I dont currently intend to uphold Cs
complaint and Ill explain why below.
I can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr C when he couldnt gain access to
the online account. But I dont think I can hold BoS responsible for this. Essentially what has
happened here is that Mr C entered an incorrect password too many times, which resulted in
the password needing to be reset. BoS say the only way Mr C could reset the password was
by using both the authentication card and the card reader. BoS say this process is in place
to protect both BoS and C from fraudulent activity on the account  I dont find this to be
unfair or unreasonable. This is the same process for all BoSs online customers, and so I
dont find that Mr C has been treated unfairly or differently to any of its other customers here.
Unfortunately for Mr C, this meant that he needed to reorder both the card reader and the
authentication card before hed be able to gain access to the account. While I accept in the
circumstances this must have been inconvenient, I cant hold BoS responsible for the
situation Mr C found himself in.
While I accept Mr Cs comments in that other banks have different processes in place to
reset passwords, this doesnt necessarily mean that BoS have done something wrong. It is
up to each bank to decide on their own security measures. And it isnt the role of this service
to tell BoS what its processes should be. So, while I appreciate that C might not be happy
with the process BoS implements to reset an online password, it isnt for me to tell BoS that
it needs to do something different or change its process.
I can see that a card reader was requested on 24 June 2022 and 13 July 2022. Mr C says
neither card readers arrived. But I can also see notes from BoS systems which say Mr C
confirmed he had received a card reader  so I presume that at least one of these arrived.
It wasnt until later, on 13 July 2022, that C reported the authentication card as lost. I havent
seen any evidence that C requested this at an earlier date, and so I dont currently find that
BoS caused a delay in the authentication card being received. And ultimately, unnecessarily
increasing the time to took for Mr C to regain access to the account. Mr C hasnt said this
card didnt arrive.
While I appreciate the process in which Mr C needed to follow to regain access to Cs
account must have been frustrating for him, I havent found that BoS have done anything
wrong. And I cant ask BoS to provide its customers with other options to reset an online
password.
BoS responded to the provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to add.Mr C responded to say that he didnt think it was acceptable that in the event of him losing 
both the card reader and the authentication card, that it should take six weeks to be able to 
gain access to the account again. He also added that BoS lost one of the card readers it 
sent. He said that during the time he wasnt able to access the account he couldnt pay staff 
or anyone else within the business. He said he would like more compensation than £100  
as what BoS has done isnt fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I wont be upholding Cs complaint, for much of the 
same reason as outlined in my provisional decision. To be clear, this means Im not asking 
BoS to compensate C with any money. 
To answer Mr Cs point, I agree that it shouldnt take six weeks to gain access to an account. 
But I havent found that the length of time it took to regain access was a result of something 
BoS had done wrong. 
When the online access was blocked on 21 June 2022, Mr C needed both the card reader 
and authentication card to reset the password. Mr C didnt order a new authentication card 
until 13 July 2022, and so he didnt request everything he needed to reset the password on 
the account until around three weeks after the initial block. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mr C let BoS know the authentication card was lost prior to this date. And so, I 
cant agree that BoS has caused an unnecessary delay here. 
I can see that Mr C had to reorder the card reader because the first one didnt arrive. I have 
seen evidence to show that BoS received the order. But BoS has said that it doesnt record 
when card readers are sent. So, it is difficult for me to be certain as to whether the first card 
reader was sent or not. I have also noted that the card readers were sent to an address that 
Mr C no longer resides at  and hes told us that mail is being forwarded to him. I have 
considered that its possible that the card reader was sent and there was an issue with the 
post that meant it wasnt received  which I wouldnt be able to hold BoS responsible for. 
Even if I accept that BoS did something wrong about the ordering of the first card reader, I 
still wouldnt look to uphold this complaint because Mr C didnt order everything he needed 
to reset the password until 13 July 2022. So even if BoS didnt send the first card reader like 
they said they did, Mr C still wouldnt have been able to log in because he didnt order the 
authentication card until later. 
Based on everything Ive read and been told, I dont find that the issue of Mr C not being 
able to log into Cs account for six weeks was as a result of something BoS had done wrong. 
And so Im not upholding this complaint, which means I wont be directing BoS to pay C any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman