DRN-1596500
 
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc handled a substantial transfer of 
money which she needed for a property purchase. The transfer was delayed and as a result 
she had to pay more than £2,000 for late completion. Bank of Ireland  provides and operates 
the  Post Office account. 
What happened
In May 2019 Ms S was buying a property. As part of that process she needed to transfer just 
over £81,000 from her Post Office savings account to her current account with a different 
provider. Her current account was a "Linked Account" - that is, it was the current account 
nominated by her for payments to and from the Post Office savings account. 
On 21 May Ms S tried to transfer funds from her Post Office account, using the account's 
online facility. She expected the transfer to be completed on the same day, but it wasn't. In 
fact, the money wasn't transferred out of the Post Office account until 23 May, which was too 
late for Ms S to complete the property purchase on time. 
The bank says that, rather than requesting a transfer from her Post Office savings account to 
her linked current account, Ms S initially made a request to transfer money to her savings 
account. Because the current account was linked to the Post Office account, she could do 
that from the Post Office account. She was in effect asking the Post Office to seek a 
payment from her current account, which it did by setting up a direct debit. A direct debit 
payment wouldn't be completed until 24 May. Bank of Ireland didn't feel it had made any 
errors. No payment was received from Ms S's current account.
Ms S referred the matter to this service. She said the bank should have realised that 
something was wrong, given the very unusual nature of the transaction. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but didn't feel that Bank of Ireland had done anything 
wrong. Ms S asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view the bank's records show that its explanation of what happened is correct. It 
appears that Ms S, instead of making a transfer from her savings account, requested a 
transfer to it. Because her accounts were linked (even though they were with different 
providers), this was possible, through the direct debit scheme. A direct debit payment is 
initiated by the institution receiving the money; in this case, because of the error, that was 
the Post Office. It generally takes a few days from initiation of the process until payment. The 
process here was initiated on 21 May, so payment would have been received on or about 24 
May - had funds been available in Ms S's current account. As Ms S had observed, a direct debit is generally used for recurring payments, for example 
to pay utility bills. But they can also be used for one-off payments.  
In fact the money was transferred on 23 May, when Ms S made a further payment request - 
this time, it seems, correctly asking for a transfer from the savings account to her linked 
current account. 
I'm satisfied that the bank's explanation here is correct, and that the error was, unfortunately, 
Ms S's. I must therefore consider whether, as Ms S suggests, the bank should have realised 
something was wrong. Whilst of course it would have been unusual for Ms S to request from 
her linked account funds that matched those in her savings account, I don't believe I can 
fairly say that the Post Office should have picked up on her error. Accounts are not manually 
monitored and there was no suggestion of fraud here - both accounts were held by Ms S. I 
don't believe either that the online instructions were unclear. 
It's obviously unfortunate that Ms S has made a mistake here, and that it's cost in excess of 
£2,000. I can't properly say that the bank should bear any responsibility for it, however.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't require Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc to do anything further to resolve Ms S's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman