DRN-2426053
The complaint
Mrs T complains MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) caused delays and gave her 
poor customer service in relation to her motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs T made a claim under her MCE motor insurance policy after her motorbike was stolen. 
MCE declined her claim and avoided her policy (cancelled it as if it had never existed) 
because it said she incorrectly told it she had a garage when she took out her policy.
Mrs T complained to MCE about this, and said that between May and July 2019 she gave it 
further information about her garage, bike and claim, including that her bike had been 
recovered by the police. Mrs T says she paid the police release fee for her bike, and 
arranged for a local garage to store it along with her keys and V5 document, as she wanted 
the garage to sell her bike in order to minimise her loss. 
In its final response, MCE said it had overturned the avoidance and offered Mrs T a claim 
settlement on 26 July 2019. It said it wasnt given the keys and V5 when it collected Mrs Ts 
bike from her garage, and it needed these to pay the settlement - so it hadnt delayed the 
claim by requiring them. But MCE apologised for not noting what Mrs T had told it about her 
bike being recovered by the police. And it said its communication could have been better, for 
which it offered to reduce her excess by £100. 
Mrs T asked our service to investigate, saying shed had to chase MCE for six months for 
her claim settlement and it had rarely replied to her. And that MCE hadnt refunded her the 
£160 police release fee as it had agreed. 
Our investigator said MCE incorrectly avoided the policy, causing a three month delay. And 
that MCE caused further delays by failing to record the bike as recovered. He said that had 
the policy been in place as it should have been, MCE would have paid the release fee and 
so it should pay this to Mrs T plus 8% interest. And that it should also pay Mrs T £300 in total 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
MCE disagreed. It said it paid Mrs T the £160 release fee on 30 September 2019. And it 
wouldnt have collected the bike at the time the policy was avoided. MCE said it wasnt 
responsible for delays caused by Mrs T not providing it with the keys and V5. And that it had 
correctly avoided the policy because Mrs T didnt have a garage, as shed told it when she 
took out the policy. But that it later thought it was fair to reinstate the policy after Mrs T 
complained and provided confirmation from her landlord that her property was advertised as 
having a garage. 
Because MCE disagreed with our investigator, this complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think MCE caused unnecessary delays to Mrs Ts claim by incorrectly avoiding her policy 
and declining her claim. I acknowledge MCE says it correctly avoided the policy but then 
reinstated it after Mrs T provided information to show why shed said she had a garage when 
she took out the policy. But it should have talked to Mrs T and clarified this before it avoided 
the policy, not afterwards, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it did. So Im satisfied MCE 
unfairly avoided the policy. Therefore, it caused an unnecessary delay between it avoiding 
the policy on 13 May 2019 and reinstating the policy on 19 July 2019. 
From the timeline Mrs T has provided, Im satisfied there were occasions when MCE didnt 
respond to her emails and occasions when it didnt contact her for about a month. I note that 
in its final response to Mrs Ts complaint, MCE accepted its claims team could have 
communicated better. MCE also accepted it didnt record what Mrs T told it about her bike 
having been recovered by the police and being in storage. The timeline Mrs T has provided 
suggests this led to confusion that Mrs T then needed to contact MCE to clear up.
So MCE made errors here. And Im satisfied these errors caused Mrs T distress and 
inconvenience. I think having her policy incorrectly avoided and her claim declined would 
have caused her frustration and worry, made worse by the delay that then followed. And 
Mrs T needed to contact MCE to get its errors put right, causing her unnecessary 
inconvenience. Mrs T has explained she often had to do this during her working hours, which 
was stressful and inconvenient as she then needed to make up the time.
Putting things right
MCE has offered Mrs T £100 compensation, But I think the total of £300 suggested by our 
investigator is a fairer reflection of the frustration, distress and inconvenience Im satisfied 
MCEs errors caused Mrs T. So MCE should pay Mrs T a further £200 compensation in 
addition to the £100 it has already offered her.   
I note Mrs T has recently searched her bank records and confirmed that she received the 
£160 release fee from MCE in October 2019. As thats no longer in dispute, I wont be asking 
MCE to do anything further about that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. MCE Insurance Company Limited 
should pay Mrs T a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman