DRN-1986083
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies, when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society. The 
complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about two mortgage PPI policies taken out in 2004 and 2010. The policies 
were taken out in a branch  the first when Mr S was applying for a mortgage to buy his 
home; and the second when he was applying for additional lending secured on his home. 
The policies provided Mr S with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree. 
He said, in summary, that:
He was in full time employment, entitled to sick pay, and had an insurance policy in place 
which covered him if he couldnt work.
He is unaware of any paperwork that he signed to take out the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint for the following reasons:
Overall, I think Lloyds made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. I say this because in both 2004 and 2010, Mr S signed a PPI application form and direct 
debit instruction. So I think it was relatively clear  from the need to complete a form, 
separate from the mortgage application,  that the PPI was a separate product.
On both occasions, Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr S, so it had to ensure that it was 
suitable for him. It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
PPI sold in 2004
Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr S told us he would have received less than 3 months sick pay from his employer and 
didnt have any other means  such as savings or investments  to meet his mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful claim for accident or sickness, in addition to his sick pay. It also 
covered him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term 
financial commitment and Mr Ss home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the 
repayments. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit.
Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr S before he 
agreed to purchase it. Its possible he wasnt told the monthly cost until after the 
mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Mr Ss decision to purchase the policy. I've found that 
hed chosen to take out the policy and would have known he would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So 
I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
PPI sold in 2010
Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr S told us he would only have received statutory sick. The loan taken out in 2010 was 
secured on his home. As in 2004, this was a significant long-term financial commitment 
and Mr Ss home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI 
could have been a useful benefit. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. 
Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The cost of the policy was set out in the mortgage offer document, the agreement and in 
Lloyds summary of recommendations. So I think Lloyds made him aware of the cost of 
the policy before he took it out.
Both sales
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendations were 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr S would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policies if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policies.
Ive taken into account what Mr S says about having a private health cover policy in place. 
Ive considered the policy document that hes provided. The policy is for critical illness and 
life cover and would have paid a lump sum if Mr S was diagnosed with a critical illness, or 
passed away, during the policy term. This didnt mirror the protection provided by the PPI 
policies. And the policy was taken out in 2014, which was after Mr S took out the PPI 
policies. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman