DRN-2669872
The complaint
Mrs P has complained as AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) rejected her claim for subsidence 
under her commercial buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P owned a commercial premises which she rented out to the same tenants since 2011. 
Her tenants informed her of some damage to the building in 2018. In order to pay for the 
repairs, Mrs P made a claim to AXA for subsidence damage. Mrs P had used AXA to insure 
her commercial property since 2014.
There were two areas of damage:
To the rear elevation there was some slight stepped cracking above and below the 
rear right hand window.
The right gable wall was leaning outwards and was bowed. This was more visible at 
roof level where there was separation between the steel roof members and the brick 
detail.
AXA appointed their loss adjustors to investigate the damage at the property. They reviewed 
the cracking to the rear elevation and concluded that the pattern, location and orientation of 
the current cracking is not typical of damage which is associated with recent or progressive 
subsidence movement during policy cover.
They said the damage to the gable wall was not covered by the policy as it was more likely 
caused by lateral movement due to a lack of restraint and bracing to the gable wall rather 
than subsidence. They said this was not unusual and they said it was a result of how the 
property was constructed, which is excluded by the policy.
Relying on the loss adjustors report, AXA declined the claim. 
Mrs P was not content with AXAs report, so she commissioned an independent surveyor to 
review the damage. He disagreed with the loss adjusters opinion. Her surveyor said, the 
damage is most certainly progressive in nature and is ongoing. The surveyor also said the 
horizontal displacement in the right-hand side of the gable wall has been caused by lack of 
lateral constraint and a significant contribution from foundation subsidence at the rear 
corner.
Our investigator reviewed the case and thought the loss adjuster and surveyor agreed that 
the gable wall damage was due to lateral movement and shouldnt be covered by the policy. 
However, in respect to the rear elevation cracking, he didnt think that AXA had presented 
evidence that demonstrated the subsidence had stopped before the date they first insured 
Mrs P. So, he upheld this part of the complaint. AXA disagreed, saying that the subsidence 
occurred before the property was on risk with AXA, so the case was referred to an 
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 3 Febraury 2021. I said:
In provisionally deciding this claim I have relied primarily upon the evidence provided by the 
two experts, AXAs loss adjustor and Mrs Ps surveyor. My role here is to review the opinions 
put forward by experts and determine whether I think AXA have been fair in declining Mrs 
Ps claim.
In a subsidence claim, if the insurer has persuasive evidence to show that the damage 
happened and stopped before the policy started, its unlikely that wed say theyre 
responsible for repairing that damage under the insurance policy.
If the movement has carried on during the term of the policy, the insurer should usually deal 
with the damage caused during the term of the policy, even if the movement and damage 
started before the policy did. 
Rear elevation  cracking
AXA have accepted the cracking is damage caused by subsidence, but they rejected the 
claim as they said the damage occurred before they first insured the property in 2014. I have 
reviewed the file to see if they have provided evidence that the subsidence had ended 
before they took on the insurance cover in 2014.
There is evidence that there have been repairs made to the wall in the past, possibly as long 
ago as the 1990s and the current tenants confirmed that no repairs had occurred since they 
had started renting out the premises. This led to the loss adjustor concluding that the 
movement occurred previous to the inspection of the current building policy dated 1st 
February 2008 i.e. before the date AXA took on the cover.
In my opinion, AXA have proven that it is likely that the subsidence started before they 
provided cover on the premises. However, I dont think they have proved there hasnt been 
any recent or progressive subsidence during the policy cover.  AXA said the tenant advised 
their loss adjuster that the damage was noticed around 2-3 years ago and the damage has 
gradually deteriorated since. I have also noted that the loss adjuster also reported the cause 
of the cracking is not clear at present and further site investigations will be required to help 
ascertain whether the property is in fact suffering from foundation movement or not. AXA 
never commissioned these additonal reports. Mrs Ps surveyor also recommended further 
investigation into the underground drainage pipes and foundation and subsoil conditions to 
properly understand the cause of the damage. 
As the tenants only observed the new damage two or three years ago and AXA didnt follow 
up on the further investigation work required, I dont think AXA have been reasonable in 
assuming there has been no further movement during their period of cover. So for this 
reason, I dont think it is fair that AXA have rejected this part of the claim.
Gable wall
Both experts have reported that the gable wall is unstable and requires additional restraints 
at the roof verge. Mrs Ps surveyor has said the lateral movement of the gable walls at high 
level is a consequence of poor or inadequate construction. The loss adjustor disqualified 
this damage from Mrs Ps claim and Mrs Ps surveyor commented that he thought this was 
a normally correct interpretation of the insured risk. However, Mrs Ps surveyor went on to 
qualify his statement for this specific case. His opinion was that the subsidence to the rear 
elevation made a significant contribution to the lateral movement of the gable wall and he 
explained why he thought this: The tapering crack of the rear wall caused by foundation subsidence means the 
gable wall does not benefit from buttress restraint from the rear wall. Under these 
circumstances, lateral stability of the gable wall is significantly worse as a 
consequence.
Furthermore, rotation of the rear foundation near the corner has also resulted in 
complimentary torsional rotation of the gable wall foundation. This has the effect of 
promoting the top of the gable wall to pull away from the roof verge line causing the 
separationgap as now seen.
The loss adjustors report didnt consider subsidence as a factor in the damage to the gable 
wall and in my opionion they should have provided some evidence to say why it wasnt a 
contributory factor. I find Mrs Ps surveyors commentary more consistent with the damage 
that has been presented and therefore find it pursuasive. Her surveyor said had there been 
no subsidence moment in the corner, lateral displacements in this gable wall at high level 
would have been similar in magnitude to the other gable wall i.e. substantially less.
I have decided to uphold this aspect of the complaint. I dont doubt that there were problems 
with the construction of  the building, however, I dont think this the primary cause of the 
current damage. Based on the evidence, I think it is reasonable to assume the subsidence to 
the rear wall and corner was the significant contributory factor to the damage. As subsidence 
is covered by Mrs Ps policy and I dont think AXA have shown that it stopped before they 
started the cover, I think it is fair that AXA should settle her claim.
Due to safety concerns, Mrs P has already completed the rectification works to her premises 
at a cost of £2,000. I intend to require AXA to pay Mrs Ps claim for these costs, on 
production of the invoice she received, less her £1,000 policy excess. 
Mrs P has also had the expense of paying for her own independent surveyors report. As this 
shouldnt have been necessary, I intend to require AXA to refund these costs to Mrs P on 
production of the invoice she received.
As Mrs P has unfairly been without these funds AXA will need to add simple interest at 8% to 
the amount it refunds from the date Mrs P paid her builder and surveyor.
Mrs P has suffered inconvenience, some stress and she has had to fund the surveyor and 
building works whilst she referred her complaint to our service. I dont think this is fair. I 
intend to ask AXA to pay Mrs P an award of £300 for this trouble and upset. 
Responses to my provisional decision
There were no responses to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.I require AXA Insurance UK plc to pay Mrs P:
For the rectification works - £2,000 plus interest* at 8% (from the date of her payment 
to the date AXA pays Mrs P), less her policy excess of £1,000.
For the cost of procuring her own buildings survey  refund the costs plus interest* at 
8% (from the date of her payment to the date AXA pays Mrs P).
For her trouble and upset - £300 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA Insurance UK plc to take off tax from this interest. 
UKI must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mrs P ask for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman