DRN-3922286
The complaint
Ms A complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined her parts and 
garage cover insurance claim.
What happened
In February 2022 Acromas declined Ms As claim against her parts and garage cover 
insurance policy. It said her vehicles breakdown wasnt due to a sudden and unexpected 
mechanical or electrical failure as required by her policy terms. It felt the cause was wear of 
the vehicles timing chain, which had come to the end of its usable life.   
Ms A complained to Acromas, but it didnt change its position. So she came to this service. 
Shes unhappy with the claim refusal, she wants Acromas to pay it. Shes also frustrated with 
how long it took for an inspection of her vehicle to take place.  
In December 2021 our investigator considered the complaint. She felt Acromas had fairly 
declined the claim. She didnt agree it had caused any unreasonable delay. Ms A didnt 
accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I feel Acromas decision 
to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Ms As policy covers her vehicle against breakdown. Breakdown is defined by the policy as 
a sudden or unexpected event resulting from a mechanical or electrical failure. Ms A says 
the timing chain failed suddenly so should be covered. 
Acromas has provided the inspecting engineers opinion. They found no signs of sudden 
failure. They considered the problem to be caused by wear and deterioration. They also said 
it wasnt unexpected for the age and mileage of the vehicle.  
Whilst I note Ms As opinion, Im more persuaded by the engineers - as an expert. Ms A 
hasnt provided anything from a relevant expert to counter it. So it seems the breakdown 
wasnt sudden or unexpected as required by the policy terms. In the circumstances I cant 
say Acromas refusal of the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
Ms As complained it took Acromas a month to inspect her car. But according to the timeline 
its provided the inspection took place eight days after she made her parts and garage cover 
claim. Within that time Acromas offered a parts only inspection to avoid her having to wait 
for a decision on the claim. In addition the insurers provided a reasonable explanation for 
why it chose to physically inspect the vehicle. Overall I cant say it caused any unreasonable 
delay or treated Ms A unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to require Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
to settle Ms As claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman