DRN-2788274
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the way Nationwide spoke about the PPI made them think they 
needed to have PPI to get their mortgage. 
If Nationwide did mislead Mr and Mrs C, that would have been unfair and could amount to 
mis-selling. However, the overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Nationwide prove it 
didnt do something wrong like this, especially as it was so long ago  instead, fairly, I would 
need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say 
that there is that kind of evidence. Mr and Mrs C are sure that they were made to feel they 
had to have PPI. But this did all happen about 25 years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone 
to remember in detail what happened that long ago. So it may not be fair to rely only on what 
they now remember. And I dont have other supporting evidence to back up what Mr and 
Mr C now remember. 
And I can at least see that the application form, which Mr and Mrs C appear to have filled in 
and signed, does present the PPI as a choice  and there is a tick to say they wanted PPI. 
So I cant fairly say that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr and Mrs C now believe. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs C to decide whether it was suitable.  
But, even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr C (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would 
have put Mr and Mrs C in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy at the 
actual point the sale happened. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear 
information about this would have affected whether Mr and Mrs C took the PPI. I say this 
because, in their circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman