DRN-3099558
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I), including that he didnt receive some prize money that that should have been paid to 
him from his Premium Bond account.
What happened
Mr O held a Premium Bond account with NS&I. In the first quarter of 2021, Mr O won several 
prizes on his Premium Bond account, but he noted hat these hadnt been paid to his 
designated bank account. Mr O wasnt happy about this, or with the standard of service he 
received from NS&I when he contacted them about it, so he made a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Os complaint. They explained that all of the prizes that Mr O had won on 
his Premium Bond account had been paid to Mr Os designated bank account, so they didnt 
uphold that aspect of Mr Os complaint. However, NS&I did apologise to Mr O for the 
standard of service hed received when he contacted them, and they made a payment of £30 
to compensate Mr O for any upset this may have caused.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that NS&I had been able to 
demonstrate that theyd paid the prizes that Mr O had won to Mr Os bank account, and they 
also felt that the response that NS&I had already issued to Mr O in regard to the service 
aspect of his complaint, including the £30 compensation payment, already represented a fair 
and reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During our investigators review of this complaint, Mr O confirmed that he had been able to 
locate some of the prizes that had been sent to him by NS&I, but that he continued to be 
unable to locate 2 x £25 prizes that he won in the March 2021 Premium Bond prize draw or 
the £30 compensation payment that NS&I had paid to him following his complaint to them.
NS&I provided this service with information which demonstrated that missing payments had 
been sent to Mr Os designated bank account, but when this service asked Mr O for itemised 
bank statements for the months in question so as to be able to confirm whether the sent 
NS&I payments had been received into that account or not, Mr O declined to provide these.
Furthermore, I note that NS&I have undertaken payment traces for both the 2 x £25 prizes 
and the £30 compensation payment, and that letters detailing the results of these traces  
both of which confirmed that the payments were sent by NS&I to Mr Os bank account  
were sent to Mr O on 25 August and 2 September 2021 respectively.
As such, Im satisfied that NS&I have been able to reasonably demonstrate that the 2 x £25 
prizes and the £30 compensation payment were sent to Mr O, whereas conversely, I dont 
feel that Mr O has been able to reasonably demonstrate that these payments werent 
received by him.
Im aware that Mr O doesnt feel that NS&Is response to the service aspect of his complaint 
with them, including the payment of £30 compensation, goes far enough. I can appreciate  
Mr Os strength of feeling here, and I acknowledge that matters of compensation can be 
subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and reasonable by one party not being 
considered as being such by someone else. However, the apology that NS&I have already 
issued to Mr O, and the payment of £30 compensation, does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
Mr O has also stated that hes unhappy that NS&I didnt give details of when the Premium 
Bond prizes were sent to him. However, NS&Is response to Mr Os complaint clearly states:
I have checked our prize draw system. This shows us that your prizes have been 
paid into your bank account these were sent to your bank account on the first 
working day of each month. These payments may take up to 3-5 working days to 
show in your bank account.
Finally, Mr O has stated that NS&I didnt make reasonable adjustments regarding a medical 
condition he suffers with. NS&I have confirmed that they do make adjustments for medical 
conditions, but that Mr O hadnt informed them that he had such a medical condition until he 
declared it in his complaint with this service. 
NS&I also confirmed that Mr O no longer holds any accounts with them, but that, if Mr O 
provides his consent for NS&I to do so, they can maintain a record of Mr Os medical 
condition to enable a potential conversation about possible future adjustments to take place, 
should Mr O invest with them again in the future. This seems fair to me, and if Mr O would 
like NS&I to maintain a record of his medical condition, I would encourage him to contact 
NS&I directly about this.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that NS&I have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably to Mr O here, and Im satisfied that the response that NS&I 
have already issued to Mr O in regard to the service aspect of his complaint, including the 
payment of £30 compensation, already represents a fair resolution to what has taken place. 
Accordingly, it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing NS&I to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr O was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman