DRN-2868184
The complaint
Mr D complains about Society of Lloyds (SoL) decision to decline a claim he made.
What happened
In 2007, Mr D paid a deposit of £6,552.65 and a reservation fee of £1,000 to purchase an 
apartment being built as part of a new development. This was accompanied by a Premier 
Guarantee, which included insurance cover. Unfortunately, the properties - including the 
apartment Mr D had paid a deposit for - were not completed. The property developer was 
officially dissolved in 2015.
Mr D instructed his solicitor to lodge an insolvency claim with a third party. The third party, 
instructed by the underwriter of the Premier Guarantee, asked Mr D to provide a copy of an 
Initial Certificate, so they could confirm there was insurance in place. Mr Ds solicitors 
provided this, but the third party later said they or the scheme administrators hadnt seen any 
evidence that confirmed the terms of the insurance between the property developer and the 
underwriter had been finalised. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ds solicitors complained to SoL, as the underwriter was 
part of the syndicate. However, on the basis SoL hadnt seen any evidence confirming there 
was insurance in place between the developer and underwriter, it declined the claim.
Mr Ds solicitors then referred the matter to this service. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence to demonstrate there was cover in 
place for Mr D. She didnt recommend SoL take any further action to consider Mr Ds claim. 
As Mr D didnt agree, this matter had been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive started by considering the policy definitions, and Ive set out the key ones below:
5. Certificate of Approval
The Certificate issued by the Site Audit Surveyor to the Underwriter on or following
satisfactory completion of each Housing Unit.
6. Certificate of Insurance
The Certificate issued by the Underwriter to signify acceptance of each Housing Unit 
for insurance hereunder following issue of the Certificate of Approval by the Site 
Audit Surveyor.
13. Final Certificate  The Certificate issued by the Approved Inspector following 
completion of Building Control for a Housing Unit or the New Development.
15. Initial Certificate  The Certificate issued by the Underwriter signifying their 
agreement to the provision of the insurance cover set out this Policy subject to 
receipt of a Certificate of Approval and a Final Certificate for each Housing 
Unit
Ive considered the Initial Certificate issued for the development. It says:
 The Underwriter agrees upon receipt of a Certificate of Approval from the Site 
Audit Surveyor to provide cover within the Premier Guarantee For New Homes
Im satisfied based on the above, the Initial Certificate alone is clear in setting out that cover 
for the property was not automatically in place. It is also clear from the remaining policy 
terms that, had cover been agreed, further certificates would have been issued to Mr D. 
In the absence of any of any further documents showing definitively that there was an 
insurance contract in place, I cant say that the underwriter acted wrongly in declining Mr Ds 
claim. 
I appreciate Mr Ds solicitors say they have successfully made several claims for other 
clients in the past and theyve said some of those circumstances are similar to Mr Ds. And 
while mindful of this, Im required to reach a decision I think fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to require SoL to take any 
action to consider Mr Ds claim for the reasons Ive given.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman