DRN-2696167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are complaining about the mis-sale of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP) 
by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
In 2002, Mr and Mrs T went into a Halifax branch to apply for a mortgage. They say they 
were told theyd need to take out various financial protection insurances as a condition of the 
mortgage. For Mr T, they took out life assurance, critical illness cover (CIC), and mortgage 
repayment cover. And for Mrs T, they took out life assurance and CIC. These were all set up 
within one TMPP.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs T increased their mortgage borrowing and the mortgage advisor 
changed the TMPP. Mr and Mrs T say the changes were made without explanation and 
were inappropriate. Mr Ts plan was split into two, keeping the existing mortgage repayment 
cover but with a new policy for life assurance and CIC. Mrs Ts plan was unchanged. 
Although Mr Ts life assurance and CIC was extended to match the new mortgage term, 
Mrs Ts cover now fell short of the mortgage term  and so did Mr Ts mortgage repayment 
cover.
Mr and Mrs T are complaining about the events in 2002 and in 2009. And theyre 
complaining that Halifax didnt cancel their policies when they paid their mortgage off early in 
2016.
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint has been split  the mortgage repayment cover has been 
considered under a separate complaint as its a form of payment protection insurance (PPI). 
So my decision will only consider the life assurance and CIC aspects of the complaint.
When they looked at this complaint, Halifax initially said that Mr and Mrs T had brought their 
complaint outside the time limits allowed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But they 
went on to address the complaint points briefly. They said that insurance wasnt a condition 
of the mortgage in either 2002 or 2009. They said they had no documentation from the 2002 
sale, but that the 2009 sale documentation showed that Mr and Mrs T asked for the policies 
to be set up in the way they were, and that they understood the cover that would be 
provided.
Halifax also said Mr and Mrs T were responsible for cancelling the policies as policy holders. 
They said they were standalone policies, and added that the annual mortgage statements 
didnt make any reference to the policies which confirms they werent attached to the 
mortgage.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She first suggested to Halifax that the 
complaint wasnt out of time and we could look at the complaint and they accepted. So she 
went on to look at the merits of the complaint. She said there wasnt much information about 
the 2002 sale but it was clear from the mortgage offer that it wasnt conditional on life 
assurance and CIC. However, she noted that shed have expected Halifax to have 
recommended decreasing term assurance (DTA) rather than level term assurance (LTA) 
given the nature of the mortgage.  
In relation to the 2009 sale, our investigator said it was clear Mr and Mrs T had engaged with 
the advisor and knew they would be underinsured as a result of the decisions they took. She 
also said the mortgage offer made it clear that it was only conditional on Mr and Mrs T taking 
out buildings insurance  not life assurance or CIC. 
Our investigator also said she thought Mr and Mrs T should have been aware that their 
policies were still in place and that it was their responsibility to cancel them when they no 
longer needed them.
Our investigator said that Halifax should refund Mr and Mrs T the difference between the 
cost of the LTA policy they took out in 2002 and the cost of an appropriate DTA policy. 
Halifax accepted this but when they looked up the cost they found that DTA would have 
been more expensive. So our investigator concluded that Halifax hadnt done anything 
wrong and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy and asked for an ombudsmans decision  so their complaints 
come to me. In disagreeing with our investigators view, they said theyd not signed the 
documentation from the 2009 sale and said theyd never have put themselves in a situation 
where there would have been a shortfall in the event of Mrs Ts death. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, Im not upholding their 
complaint, for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why, considering the three 
complaint points separately.
The 2002 sale
Although Mr and Mrs T say they were told the policies were a condition of the mortgage, I 
cant see anything to show that was the case. And there arent any records of the 
conversations that took place at the time. So I cant be sure what happened, but Im satisfied 
the mortgage offer shows that it was conditional on property insurance but not on any other 
insurance. 
Theres limited evidence about the sale process, but Ive seen enough to think that the 
advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs T at the time. 
At the time of the 2002 sale, Mr and Mrs T were taking on a mortgage for the first time. They 
had two young children, and as such, it made sense for them to have life assurance and CIC 
to give financial protection for each spouse and for the children in case anything were to 
happen. The sum assured for both policies matched the amount of the mortgage, so if either 
Mr or Mrs T had died or become critically ill, the remaining spouse or children would have 
had the means to pay off the mortgage. 
As our investigator noted, the mortgage was a repayment mortgage, and wed normally 
expect to see life assurance and CIC set up with a decreasing sum assured to match the 
gradually reducing mortgage balance. But in this instance, Halifax have confirmed that this 
would have been more expensive than the policies Mr and Mrs T took out. So Im happy the 
life assurance and CIC policies that Mr and Mrs T entered into were suitable for them at the 
time and therefore werent mis-sold.The 2009 sale
Mr and Mrs Ts primary complaint about the 2009 sale is that they came away underinsured 
 the mortgage was expected to still be in place when Mrs Ts life assurance and CIC was 
due to expire. 
In 2009, Mr and Mrs T extended their mortgage to borrow £51,163 over 23 years. The 
mortgage offer made it clear they didnt need to take any insurance through Halifax, but they 
did need to have buildings insurance. The advisors internal notes from the time of the sale 
note: they have specific [sic] requested that a new plan be set up for just Mr [T] for the 
total amount for life and critical illness whilst Mrs [T] will retain the existing cover of £31,000 
level term, Mr being on decreasing term. They are aware that there is a shortfall of cover 
should a claim be submitted for Mrs T
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have challenged the validity of the advisors note as they havent 
signed it. They say theres no evidence that the discussions described in the advisors note 
actually took place. While I accept what Mr and Mrs T are saying, theres no recording of the 
conversation, nor did Mr and Mrs T provide any notes from the time. The advisors notes 
were an internal document which was never intended to be signed by the customers, and 
they have an electronic signature and date throughout. I have to decide whats most likely to 
happen and in this instance I have two accounts  one from the notes written at the time, 
and one from Mr and Mrs Ts recollections over ten years after the conversation took place. 
Im inclined to place more reliance on the advisors note and Im satisfied it shows that Mr 
and Mrs T were engaged in the conversation and chose the cover that they wanted. 
I also note that Mrs T hasnt needed to make a claim on her life assurance or CIC. So shes 
suffered no loss as a result of being underinsured  and shed have had to pay more over 
the last ten years for the amount of cover she says she wanted. That means that even if Id 
decided Halifax had mis-sold the policies in 2009, thered have been no redress due to Mr 
and Mrs T.
Cancellation of the policies
Mr and Mrs T say Halifax should have cancelled the policies when they repaid their 
mortgage in 2016, several years early. But the policies werent directly associated with the 
mortgage  as Halifax explained, the mortgage statements dont mention the policies. The 
terms and conditions for the TMPP say: 
Your plan will not end automatically when your mortgage ends. If you want your plan to end 
when your mortgage ends, you must contact the administration office to end your plan.   
So I think Mr and Mrs T would reasonably have been aware theyd need to take steps to 
cancel their policies. And I dont think its fair to say Halifax should have cancelled the plan 
without any specific instruction to do so from Mr and Mrs T  they wouldnt have been legally 
allowed to. I also note Mr and Mrs T spoke to Halifax in March 2016 and February 2017 
about the possibility of cancelling the policies and on both occasions chose to keep them in 
place. That suggests to me that Mr and Mrs T wanted to keep the cover.
Summary
Taking everything together, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T took out a suitable plan following the 
sale in 2002. Although they were underinsured after the 2009 sale, I think its more likely 
than not this was their choice and was discussed with the advisor. And I cant see that Mr 
and Mrs T have lost out as a result. Finally, Im satisfied Halifax were right not to cancel the 
policies when Mr and Mrs T repaid their mortgage.My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman