DRN-1546016
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) closed her credit card 
account without letting her know.
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card account with Natwest. She said that she became aware that 
her account was cancelled when she tried to use the card for a transaction. She explained 
that she was never informed of the closure by Natwest. She complained to Natwest in 
February 2019.
Natwest explained that the credit card account in question had been suspended in 
September 2017. The accounts show that it hadnt been used since May 2016. Natwest 
explained that they had a policy regarding dormant accounts that allowed them to close 
accounts not being used. But couldnt say that was definitely the case here. They also 
explained that there had been disputed transactions on that card account which could also 
have accounted for the closure. Given the time that had passed though, they werent able to 
provide a definite reason why Mrs Ss account had been closed.
Natwest also explained that normal practice would have been to contact Mrs S before 
the account closure to let her know, but that they hadn't got a copy of any letter she may 
have been sent. Natwest couldnt therefore say that Mrs S had been told that her credit card 
account was closed.
They apologised for this and gave her £50 in compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused her. Mrs S was unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He felt that Natwest treated Mrs S fairly in the 
way that she was compensated for the inconvenience caused by the account closure. He 
didnt think Natwest needed to do anything else to put things right.
Mrs S was unhappy with this view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Natwest have been unable to provide the precise reason why they closed Mrs Ss account. I 
cant therefore comment on whether their reason was fair or not. I have looked at the credit 
agreement document that Natwest provided. The agreement has a section about ending 
credit accounts. The terms allow Natwest to end the agreement at any time after giving 
written notice, which would not normally be less than 2 months. Mrs S states that she was 
not notified, and Natwest cannot show that she was. On balance I think it is fair to say that 
Mrs S was not told of the account closure. Having decided, that there was an error on Natwests part, I have considered the impact of 
this on Mrs S. I can see how trying to use a card without knowing it had been cancelled 
would have been frustrating for her and led to time and trouble finding out why. This was a 
card account that wasnt in regular use though. It was closed in September 2017 and it was 
a considerable time before Mrs S discovered this. This wasnt a source of borrowing that Mrs 
S was dependant on, so fortunately she wasnt caused financial hardship or significant 
inconvenience. I think the level of compensation by Natwest in acknowledging the amount of 
distress and inconvenienced caused was fair and reasonable. Therefore I wont be asking 
Natwest to do anything further to put this right. 
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman