DRN-3286426
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B bring this complaint in their capacity as personal guarantors of lending made 
by National Westminster Bank Plc to Mr Bs businesses, which have now been dissolved.
Mr and Mrs B say that, after a possession order was granted to NatWest in 2006, the bank 
took no steps to sell the property until 2013. As a result, they say the property deteriorated 
and lost value. They are asking the bank to compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs B also say that the debt owed to NatWest was only about £240,000, not the 
£870,000 the bank claims.
I understand Mr and Mrs B were divorced some years ago, but they are bringing this 
complaint jointly.
What happened
I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mr and Mrs B and NatWest, and its apparent that 
some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are 
also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, Mr Bs companies had borrowed funds from NatWest. In 1994 and 1996 Mr and Mrs 
B had given personal guarantees and a legal charge over a property as security for the 
loans. The property was being used, at least in part, for commercial purposes. 
In 2006 a consent order was granted where Mrs B agreed to pay NatWest a short settlement 
of £220,000 in full and final settlement of the personal guarantees. If this didnt happen, then 
Mrs B would give up possession of the property and would consent to the court making a 
possession order, at which point the full amount of the debt (not the short settlement of 
£220,000) would be due to the bank. If the time to pay was extended by the bank, interest 
would accrue on the £220,000.
The notes that are available show that from at least 2005 onwards Mr and Mrs B were trying 
to sell the property. After the consent order was made, there was considerable contact both 
with Mr B and with solicitors acting for Mrs B. The notes show that a sale had been agreed 
with a building company and the bank granted several extensions of time for payment to be 
made. 
It appears there were issues with planning consents and with adoption by the local authority 
of a road giving access to the site.
By April 2007 Mrs Bs solicitors were telling NatWest about a new potential sale, subject to 
resolving the access road issue. Mr B was in sole charge of the negotiations, but, according 
to Mrs Bs solicitors, spent a lot of time in the USA. On 8 June 2007 Mrs Bs solicitors told 
NatWest that the sale to the original interested buyer was no longer proceeding, but that 
they (the solicitors) had been told by Mr B that he had opened negotiations with another 
interested party.
Mr and Mrs B then instructed a different firm of solicitors to act on the sale of the property, 
with one staff member dealing with the sale. Another solicitor at the same firm was acting for 
Mr and Mrs B in relation to a charging order on the property in favour of a third party creditor, 
and specifically defending an application for order for sale made by that creditor.
That creditor (another bank) was granted an order for sale which prevented the property 
from being sold for less than £730,000 until 20 March 2009. 
Over the next few months, NatWest was told about various proposals for a sale of the 
property to developers, but despite the bank chasing the solicitors for progress reports, the 
transaction didnt appear to be proceeding by July 2008. The bank was considering applying 
to the court for directions as to the way forward. Another bank in the same group as NatWest 
was also considering pursuing a possession order in relation to a second charge on the 
property.
On 31 July 2008 the solicitors confirmed that the development project had fallen through, but 
an alternative purchaser was interested, provided the property was sold completely 
unencumbered of all charges. The proposal was that NatWest would receive £150,000 in 
settlement of its charge. In August 2008 NatWest was told by Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors that 
there was another interested buyer who would pay £370,000 in cash, which the bank 
rejected.
In September 2008 there was a meeting between NatWest, the other bank in NatWests 
parent group, Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors and some interested purchasers who wanted to 
develop the site. Nothing came from that meeting in relation to a sale of the property. In 
October 2008 Mr B told NatWest that a previous interested party had come back onto the 
scene with a development proposal to build a mansion to sell to a footballer. NatWest 
rejected this as speculative
The £220,000 wasnt paid. Mrs B says she vacated the property because (she said) 
NatWest had a possession order. 
Thereafter, the notes show that Mr Bs solicitors was telling NatWest that he was trying to 
sell the property, but was unsuccessful. In June 2010 Mr Bs solicitor told NatWest that 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to develop the site by demolishing the property and building a single 
property. However, creditors would not agree to this. The solicitors said the property wasnt 
worth more than £400,000. The banks records also show that in September 2012 Mr B 
considered £285,000 to be the best price that could reasonably achieved for the property. 
None of the proposals either to sell or develop the property by Mr and Mrs B ever came to 
fruition. The property was sold at auction on 14 August 2013 for £400,000.
In 2019, just before the expiry of the six-year time limit under the Limitation Act 1980, 
solicitors acting for Mr B wrote to the bank claiming that the property had been sold at an 
undervalue because it had been valued in 2006 at about £750,000.In its final response letter dated 3 January 2020, NatWest said that it had not taken 
possession of the property. The bank also said that up until 2012 Mr B was taking steps 
himself to try to sell the property and that the bank allowed him time to do this. Eventually, as 
Mr B wasnt able to sell the property, the bank took steps to do so.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
noted that the property had been valued in November 2005 at £500,000, even though it was 
being marketed at the time for £750,000. 
The investigator was also satisfied that the bank had not taken possession or that a 
possession order had been made. In addition, after looking at the (limited) notes the bank 
was able to find, the investigator was satisfied that Mr B had been trying to sell the property 
for several years, but without success.
Overall, the investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They reiterated their previous points  that Mrs B had vacated, the 
bank had taken possession and, by not taking action until 2013 to sell the property, had 
allowed it to lose value. Mr and Mrs B also wondered why the balance of the sale price after 
payment of the mortgage back to NatWest  just under £103,000  hadnt been paid back to 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the passage of time, the information NatWest has been able to provide is limited. 
Thats understandable, as banks arent required to retain notes on closed accounts 
indefinitely. I have therefore considered the information that is available, and reached my 
conclusion on the basis of the available evidence.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal service, set 
up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to resolve complaints 
between consumers and banks. Were impartial, which means that we dont represent either  
the people who bring their complaints to us, or the businesses they are complaining about. 
I am explaining this because Mr and Mrs B have raised a number of questions which they 
have instructed us to put to NatWest so that it can respond to their satisfaction. But that is 
not our role; we dont take instructions from the parties on how to investigate complaints, nor 
do we allow either party to direct the course of our enquiries. If we were to do so, it would 
compromise our impartiality and independence. 
I am explaining this because I do not want Mr and Mrs B to be under any misunderstanding 
about the extent of our involvement in this complaint. My role is to look at the evidence and 
reach a conclusion which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, not to advance the 
arguments of one party against the other.
In relation to the issues in this complaint, I will explain that the consent order is not a 
possession order; it grants permission to NatWest to apply for a possession order. So Im satisfied that a possession order was not made in the banks favour in 2006. It was open to 
NatWest to apply for possession if it wanted to, but Mr B was very clear that he was taking 
steps to sell or develop the property, and so NatWest granted forbearance in the interim. 
Various proposals were made over the course of the next few years to sell the property for 
development purposes. Ive seen the correspondence Mr B has supplied from interested 
parties as far back as March 2006. However, no sale resulted from those enquiries.
I also note there were other creditors whose debts were secured on the property, and in 
particular another bank (not in NatWests group) which NatWests legal department was 
aware had a court order in 2009 prohibiting a sale of the property for less than £790,000. 
NatWest had no control over the actions of that other bank (which was not part of the same 
group as NatWest).
I think it was reasonable for NatWest, in light of the numerous proposals made by (primarily) 
Mr B to sell or develop the property to show forbearance in order to see if Mr B was, in fact, 
able to find a buyer. The secured debt owed to NatWest and another bank in the same 
group was over £800,000, so it was reasonable for the bank to want to maximise the amount 
it received. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B dispute they owed over £800,000. However, Ive seen a 
breakdown of what was owed both to NatWest and another bank in the same group in 
relation to borrowing by limited companies and a partnership secured by legal charges on 
the property and personal guarantees given by Mr and Mrs B. The groups legal department 
has clarified that the debts were as follows (and I will use initials for Mr and Mrs Bs business 
entities in order to preserve their anonymity):
PCE Ltd £298,449.10  owed to NatWest
BCoB Ltd £  50,624.79  owed to NatWest
RH (partnership) £509,593.06  owed to the other bank in the group
Mr and Mrs B had given personal guarantees of £300,000 and £10,000 for PCE Ltd and 
BCoB Ltd respectively. There was a first ranking legal charge from 1995 over the property in 
favour of NatWest and a second ranking legal charge from 2003 in favour of the other bank 
in the group.
Consequently, after the property was sold NatWest was first in line for repayment, with the 
other bank in the group entitled to the remainder of the proceeds of sale. I trust this clarifies 
the position.
The crux of this complaint is that in 2006 Mr and Mrs B say the property was worth 
£750,000. By the bank not taking possession and selling it at that time, the property, they 
argue, lost value.
However, Im not persuaded that the value of £750,000 Mr and Mrs B are claiming is 
realistic. The property had been valued at £500,000 in November 2005. Even in the rising 
market of the early to mid-2000s, Im not persuaded that, a few months later in 2006, the 
property had risen in value to £750,000  an increase of 50%. 
Following the financial crash of 2008, property values fell. Whatever the role of the banking 
industry in the financial crash, a fall in the market is not something I can hold NatWest 
responsible for in the context of this complaint, but the crash did affect the value of the property. I see that in 2010 Mr Bs solicitors told NatWest that the property was worth 
£400,000. The bank has recorded that in September 2012 Mr B told it he thought £285,000 
was a realistic price for the property. However, the property was sold for £400,000 in 
July 2013. 
Its unfortunate a sale to a developer didnt come to fruition during the period 2006-2012 
when Mr B was trying to sell the property. But Im satisfied NatWest gave him and Mrs B a 
reasonable opportunity to sell the property. When it became apparent that this wasnt going 
to happen, NatWest was left with no option but to put the property into auction. I think the 
banks actions here were reasonable. 
I dont dispute that Mrs B was no longer living in the property  she says she moved out in 
2006 and I accept this. However, Mr and Mrs B were making proposals to sell it for six years 
after the court order was made in 2006, with Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors being in 
correspondence with the bank for several years, and Mr B himself in contact with the bank 
up to 2012. I appreciate that other creditors might have prevented a sale of the property in 
2009, but thats not something for which I can hold NatWest responsible.
After it was sold in 2013 the property was demolished and a substantial residential property 
built on the site. Ive seen the online sales listing from September 2021 for that property at a 
value of almost £3 million. Mr and Mrs B have tried to suggest that the value of this new and 
very different property that has been built on the site is proof that the bank sold their 
property at an under value. But that is not a like-for-like comparison with the property that 
was on the site before it was sold in 2013. I therefore disregard this as an accurate 
representation of the value of the property that was on the site in 2013. 
Overall, the evidence does not persuade me that NatWest was in actual possession of the 
property in 2006 or thereafter, or that the property was sold at an undervalue in 2013. 
Im also satisfied that the total debt to NatWest and another bank in the same banking group 
was over £800,000. So although there was a surplus after NatWests mortgage had been 
repaid, the balance was due to the other bank in the group. There was no money due to be 
paid to Mr and Mrs B. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. I can see that Mr B in 
particular was making earnest efforts to try to sell the property for a number of years before 
NatWest put it into auction in 2013. However, in all the circumstances, after careful 
consideration of all the evidence I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong or treated 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman