DRN-1387454
The complaint
Mr K complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance 
policy (treated it like it never existed), refused to pay his claim and is trying to recover the 
costs its paid on the claim as a third party was involved.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy with Markerstudy Insurance through a broker online and 
also discussed it by telephone. 
When Mr K was involved in an accident with a third party, he made a claim. Markerstudy 
discovered that Mr Ks car had signwriting on it advertising Mr Ks business. 
Markerstudy said Mr K had answered a question about modifications incorrectly. And it 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the 
policy. Markerstudy said it would refund the premium Mr K paid to him. But it pursued Mr K 
for the recovery of the costs of the claim.  
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. 
Markerstudy provided a recording of a call when Mr K bought the policy -in addition to a 
screenshot of what information Mr K was given when he answered the modification 
question. The investigator was satisfied that Mr K hadnt taken reasonable care to answer 
the question accurately. 
Markerstudy provided its underwriting criteria which showed that if Mr K had disclosed the 
modification, Markerstudy wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
The investigator was satisfied that a qualifying misrepresentation had taken place and 
Markerstudys actions were reasonable. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said 
the signwriting wasnt major and didnt enhance the value of the car. He said the fact that all 
modifications arent specified in a list is the reason why this happened. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy Insurance thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered no to the following question about modifications from 
the comparison website:
has the car been modified, adapted and/or fitted with any optional extras such as 
changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels. An explanatory note reads:
a vehicle has been modified or adapted if its been changed from the manufacturers 
standard specification in any way. 
The note goes on to provide examples and concludes:
if your vehicle has been modified or adapted in any way, answer Yes and then 
specify each of the relevant modifications when prompted.
I think Mr K was given clear guidance around the modification question. One of the 
examples was for any cosmetic change to the paintwork. As the signwriting on Mr Ks car 
was clearly visible to promote his business, he was aware that his car had been modified. I 
understand Mr K doesnt believe the modification was major or enhanced the cars value. 
But that isnt relevant. Its for an insurer to decide what risk its prepared to accept depending 
on its appetite. Different insurers provide cover for different types of risk. They rely on the 
answers a customer gives when they offer cover.
When Mr K called the broker, the agent checked the following with Mr K:
Its not modified or changed from the manufacturers spec including bodywork, 
cosmetic or mechanical changes
Ive looked at the statement of insurance the broker sent to Mr K. It said:
You must take reasonable care that all statements you make or any answers you 
give to all questions put to you about your proposed insurance are provided fully, 
honestly and to the best of your knowledge. If you do not understand the meaning of 
any question, or if you do not know the answer, it is vital that you discuss this with 
us.
Under the heading modifications it read: Are there any cosmetic, mechanical or engine 
alterations to the vehicle from the manufacturers specification?  It then read: None 
declared. 
So I think  Mr K had a further opportunity when he received his policy documents to tell his 
broker about the modification to his car. 
I dont think Mr K took reasonable care when he answered the question about any 
modifications to his car. 
It isnt enough for an insurer to say it wouldnt have provided cover. We need to be satisfied 
that an insurer has treated its customer fairly by applying its underwriting criteria. Although 
this information is commercially sensitive, we can ask an insurer to share it with us. Im satisfied that Markerstudy would not have offered Mr K a policy if it had known about the 
sign writing advertising his business on his car. This means Im satisfied Mr Ks 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Markerstudy has classified the misrepresentation as careless. I agree that Mr Ks 
misrepresentation was careless because he said his car didnt have any modifications. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Markerstudy Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Markerstudy said it will provide a refund of premiums to Mr K. However, as it has settled a 
claim for the third party involved in the accident as the last insurer under the terms of the 
Road Traffic Act, I dont think its unreasonable for it to look to recover the costs of the claim 
from Mr K. 
I understand Mr K will be very disappointed. But In light of the above, I think Markerstudy 
has acted reasonably and in line with CIDRA.. This means Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman