DRN-3995493
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited changed its 
security requirements for a commercial loan, making the loan an unattractive prospect. V 
paid broker and legal fees in the process and interest rates have risen, meaning finding a 
loan elsewhere is more expensive. 
Mr V, who is a director of V, brings this complaint on Vs behalf.
What happened
Shawbrook told us:
In early March 2022 it received an application from V to refinance a property. It 
issued an Indicative Mortgage Offer on the same day, outlining the terms on which 
it might be able to lend.
The following day it received Vs completed application form. V answered no to the 
questions Do you or any connected party to this application have an interest in or 
propose to buy the neighbouring property? and Do you or any connected party to 
this application own or are looking to buy a property which benefits from the same 
rights of way or shares the same amenities. 
After completing initial underwriting and receiving a completed valuation report, it 
issued its formal mortgage offer towards the end of April 2022.
Shortly afterwards, its solicitors told it that Mr V and V owned the two adjoining 
properties. Its position is that this means there is unity of possession between the 
titles  any easements and covenants which might be required as between the three 
properties will have been extinguished and will need to be recreated on any future 
sale of either property. Because of this the Bank will need to take a charge over all 
the titles  we would also need to make sure that neither property is released from 
the charge in the future without the necessary rights etc being re-granted.
In early May 2022 it reissued its offer documentation to include all three titles. At the 
time it believed Mr Vs broker had already explained the issue to him, but it later 
discovered the broker had not had the opportunity to speak to him. In any event, it is 
not prepared to lend without taking a charge over all three titles.
It does not believe it has done anything wrong. It originally issued its mortgage offer 
on the assumption that the questions in its application form had been answered 
correctly. When further information came to light, it amended its offer to take account 
of that further information.
Mr V told us:
He answered the questions on the application form correctly. At the time, he was 
neither interested in nor proposing to buy the two neighbouring properties.
The bank is mistaken in its comments about unity of possession, because there are 
no rights granted between any of the properties. In addition, the three properties are 
completely independent from each other, both legally and physically, and they do not 
share the same access.
He has obtained an opinion from a legal expert to confirm that the bank did not 
require the security it asked for.
The bank did not make its full lending criteria available to him, but the lending criteria 
that is available supports his case.
The bank should have gone ahead with its original mortgage offer. Its failure to do so 
has led V to incur additional costs, which the bank should now refund.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He said Shawbrook 
was entitled to set its risk parameters and security requirements when considering lending, 
and it would not be appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service to interfere with the 
banks commercial discretion. Our investigator also thought V had given incorrect 
information on the mortgage application form, and so the bank was entitled to amend its 
offer once the correct information came to light.
Mr V did not accept our investigators conclusions, and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr V, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached the conclusions I have and I hope that Mr V will at least feel that his concerns 
have been listened to.
I think the questions on the original application form were answered incorrectly. It appears 
that Mr V may have interpreted one of the questions as asking whether he was attracted to 
the idea of purchasing the neighbouring properties (which he was not, because he already 
owned them and therefore had no desire to purchase them). However, in the circumstances 
I am satisfied that Mr V and V did have an interest in the properties, because legal and 
beneficial ownership are both types of interest in property. That means I consider the bank 
was entitled to amend its offer when its legal advisers discovered who owned the 
neighbouring properties.
I think the key issue here is that that the bank wanted more security than V was willing to 
provide. Prospective lender and borrower could not reach agreement, so the loan did not go 
ahead. But that doesnt mean the bank did anything wrong.  
Mr V hasnt provided any evidence which persuades me that the bank was not entitled to ask 
for security over all three of the properties. I acknowledge that his lawyer was unsure why 
the bank wanted security, and that his lawyer confirmed that each property could be 
individually sold without reference to the other. But as our investigator said, it is for the bank 
to decide what level of security it wishes to take. It is open to a bank to request additional 
security, and I dont think Shawbrook was wrong to do so in this case. It is possible that a different bank would not have wanted to take a charge over neighbouring 
properties in these circumstances. It is even possible that at some point in future Shawbrook 
itself might be prepared to lend on the property in question without taking additional security. 
Different banks have different lending criteria, and their criteria may also change over time. 
But the fact that one bank will lend where another wont  or that a bank has chosen to lend 
in circumstances where it previously refused  would not in itself be a reason be a reason for 
me to uphold a complaint.
Shawbrook is not required to make its full lending criteria available, so I dont criticise it for its 
failure to so do. I accept that Vs original application, with security over only one property, fell 
outside of Shawbrooks risk appetite. I therefore consider that it was reasonable for 
Shawbrook to ask for additional security. I know Mr V and V incurred costs before that point, 
but they did so at their own risk and I dont think it would be fair for me to order Shawbrook 
to reimburse those costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman