DRN-3055771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy.
Throughout this complaint Mr and Mrs W have been represented by a family member, 
however, for ease I will only refer to Mr and Mrs W in this decision.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out a single trip travel insurance policy through 
TICORP. The sale took place over the telephone.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs W had to return home early from an overseas trip due to the 
ongoing situation with the Coronavirus pandemic and incurred additional costs to do so. 
They were advised that their claim for these additional costs wouldnt be covered as they 
had not taken out the optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) cover, which provided 
cover for claims arising from this pandemic.
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to TICORP as they said they were not made aware of the 
additional cover options when they took out the policy on the phone. TICORP said that when 
Mrs W called in November 2019 to purchase the policy it asked her if she wanted cover for 
natural disasters which she declined. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that TICORP 
had provided Mr and Mrs W with all the relevant information they needed to decide if the 
policy was right for them, including details of the additional cover, such as TDE. And so, she 
said that TICORP had done everything she would expect it to have done.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigators view. They said that they dont think the 
policy is clear about this optional cover. And they said that there should be an enhanced 
duty of care shown by an insurer during a global pandemic and that it has not done enough 
to promote that duty of care in these exceptional circumstances.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W applied for their travel insurance policy during a telephone call. TICORP has 
told us that it didnt give them any advice about whether they should take out the cover. So, 
it didnt need to check it was suitable for their needs. But it did need to give them enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
 
Mr and Mrs W have said they werent offered the TDE cover and didnt know this was an 
option. TICORP has said that in the call Mrs W was offered cover for natural disasters and 
terrorism, part of the cover available under the TDE addition option, which she declined to 
take. It also said that the policy documents were emailed to Mr and Mrs W after the call and 
the TDE cover option is detailed within the policy as an additional option. Having listened to 
the sales call, I note that the sales person didnt specifically mention the term Travel 
Disruption Extension cover during the conversation.
 
Ive thought about this very carefully, but Im not persuaded that this means the policy was 
mis-sold. In the call, Mrs W refused several different additional cover options, including the 
cover offered for natural disasters and terrorism  which is part of the optional TDE cover. 
So, Im not of the opinion there is enough to suggest that if TICORP had specifically 
mentioned this additional cover option was called TDE that Mrs W would have made a 
different decision. It is important to note that the sale of the policy took place some months 
before the Covid-19 outbreak became a widely known event, so I dont think it would have 
been a consideration for them at that point. On balance, I think TICORP did provide Mr and 
Mrs W with enough information at the time of the sale for them to decide if the policy they 
were purchasing was right for them.
Following the call, TICORP provided Mr and Mrs W with the policy documentation containing 
the terms and conditions, which also included full details of the optional TDE cover and the 
protection this provided. And Im of the opinion that the documentation was clear about the 
cover they had purchased. Mr and Mrs W would then have had a 14-day cooling off period in 
which to read through the cover and decide if this gave them the protection they wanted  or 
they could cancel and obtain a full refund. Taking all of this information into account, Im not 
persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs W say TICORP should have extra responsibility in this regard especially in the 
context of a global pandemic and have an enhanced duty of care to those people travelling 
in these situations. They think TICORP should have contacted them before their trip to 
advise them of this cover. I do appreciate the point Mr and Mrs W are making here but I 
dont agree that this means TICORP have to do anything more. As explained previously, this 
was not an advised sale and so TICORP wasnt under any obligation to check the suitability 
of the insurance cover  either at the time of purchase or at any point afterwards.
Mr and Mrs W have also questioned the clarity of the policy wording and when you could 
take out the TDE cover option. They think this document is misleading. Having checked the 
policy wording, it is clear that TDE was an additional cover option. If, when checking the 
documentation, Mr and Mrs W wished to take out this additional option but werent sure if 
this was possible after the initial purchase, I would have expected them to have contacted 
TICORP. So, these points dont alter my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman