DRN-2031497
The complaint
Mr V is complaining, as a director of Company J, about the errors HSBC UK Bank Plc made 
when he was asked to complete mandatory information. 
What happened
Company J has a business account with HSBC. In 2019, HSBC asked for additional 
information as part of its regulatory responsibilities. Mr V, a director of Company J, 
completed the information on numerous occasions over a period of a few months but each 
time he was told the information wasnt correct. This was because HSBC made an error and 
were confusing Company Js details with the details of a different company of the same 
name based in Scotland.
This error happened repeatedly, and the options HSBC gave Mr V to resolve it caused some 
issues. Mr V is deaf and made HSBC aware of this. Despite this, he says it kept making 
phone calls and asking him to resolve the situation over the phone. Mr V had to ask others to 
help him with the calls, as well as branch visits. He said he felt vulnerable because of the 
lack of service he received as a deaf customer. And HSBC almost closed this account 
because of the error it made.
HSBC recognised it couldve done better. It said it shouldnt have made so many mistakes 
with the information and it couldve communicated better with Mr V. It offered £800 
compensation for its errors. Mr V said this was too low. Hes said he may decide to route his 
payments to his other personal account and this could cause a large personal tax liability. 
Hed like £7,500 to resolve the complaint.
Our investigator felt HSBCs offer was fair. She explained that theres no evidence of actual 
financial loss or a tax liability incurred from the issue. She said that HSBC had made errors 
and this shouldnt have happened. And that it couldve communicated with Mr V in a suitable 
way because of his disability. But she felt the compensation offered was fair to address the 
overall errors. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr V disagreed. He said that the error had caused eight months of disruption to his business 
and that he was made to feel vulnerable. He felt £7,500 was a reasonable figure for 
compensation and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So its been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that HSBC hasnt provided a good level of service here. My role is to determine 
whether its offer of £800 is reasonable compensation. I think that it is.
Its important to note here that the complainant, and the customer of HSBC, is Company J  
not Mr V as an individual. So, when looking at compensation, I have to look at the effect the 
actions of HSBC has had on Company J as a separate legal entity. Not to Mr V as an 
individual. I understand that Mr V says he felt distressed and vulnerable when HSBC called 
him and didnt communicate with him in a suitable way for his needs. But, as the 
complainant is a separate legal entity, I have to look at the affect this error had on 
Company J. And a company cant suffer distress. But it can experience inconvenience.
 
I can see that HSBC made errors a number of times because it had information about a 
different company of the same name. This was a mistake that was easily avoidable. But it 
happened over a series of months. So, its right that HSBC pays compensation for this. But 
Ive not seen that it had any financial impact on Company J. And Im pleased to see that it 
was resolved before the account was closed. It wouldve been inconvenient for the directors 
to have to sort this issue out. And, as a small company, I imagine it was inconvenient for the 
directors to have to focus on this rather than the business.
Mr V has said that he may incur a personal tax liability if he moved payments from Company 
Js HSBC business account to his personal account and wants to be compensated for this. 
As Ive said above, Mr V isnt the complainant here, Company J is. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that Company J has made any direct financial losses from HSBCs error. So, I 
wont be telling HSBC to pay Company J the £7,500 that Mr V has asked for.
Its clear that Mr V had notified HSBC of his disability and how he should be contacted. And 
he did this in his capacity as director of Company J. I do think that the number of calls HSBC 
made conflicted with this information. I think it couldve done better. Ive noted that Mr V said 
he had to ask his wife to help him with the phone calls. But I also note that she is also a 
company director of Company J, so I dont think theres been any additional expenses or 
inconvenience experienced by Company J for this. But I do think the delays caused by the 
errors, and then in communication, caused inconvenience for Company J as it was a small 
business with directors spending time trying to fix an issue that shouldnt have happened at 
all. But I think HSBC has been reasonable in offering £800 for this. Ive not seen any impact 
that warrants a higher award than this. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as the offer HSBC made is fair and reasonable. I leave it to 
Mr V, on behalf of Company J, to decide whether he accepts the offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman