DRN-2411618
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
credit card in 2002. Mrs K says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs K says the policy was sold during a telephone call. RBS has been able to provide a copy 
of Mrs Ks credit agreement. The agreement has been completed by hand and from the 
wording included in the form makes me think it was postal application, as it make reference 
to returning the document by post. So, I will be assessing the sale as a postal sale. 
Mrs K has said she was under the impression she had to have the PPI. RBS should have 
made Mrs K aware she had a choice in taking out the policy. Looking again at the agreement 
it has a section entitled CARD PAYMENT PROTECTION and in this section it gives a brief 
description of the PPI and asks applicants to tick a box if they want to take out the policy. On 
Mrs Ks form the box has been ticked. If Mrs K didnt want the PPI she could have left the 
box blank. 
Overall, I think its more likely Mrs K ticked to say she wanted PPI, although I can 
understand why she cant remember this now. 
Mrs K said RBS recommended the policy to her. But in my experience RBS didnt provide 
personal recommendations. Ive noted the wording on the application form saying RBS 
strongly recommended that applicants took the policy, but this was a generic statement and 
not RBS making a tailored recommendation for Mrs K. 
So as RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K, it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have  
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs K says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer at the time. The 
PPI policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ks employee benefits. Mrs K also says 
she had some saving but having the policy would have meant those savings could have 
been used for other costs. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
The refund has been offset against the outstanding balance Mrs K has with RBS. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman