DRN-1951865
The complaint
Miss Y, whos represented by a third party, says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which she took out in March 1995 when she 
was applying for a credit card. 
What happened
Miss Y says she wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, that it wasnt explained to her 
and also that she didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss Y disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made Miss Y aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it 
out. Miss Y says she may have bought the policy over the phone. But from what weve 
seen Miss Y bought the PPI at the same time as she applied for the card at a branch of 
Barclays. On the application form she was asked to indicate whether or not she wanted 
PPI by ticking the relevant box to show she wanted it. Miss Y ticked the yes box. It was 
equally open to her to tick the no box if she didnt want PPI added to her credit card 
account. So I think its fair to say that the PPI was added at her  request.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss Y but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Miss Y told us that she was 
entitled to at least 3 months pay - but less than 6 months - if she couldnt work due to 
sickness. She also told us she has some limited savings. So I think she could have easily 
got into difficulty making her monthly card payments fairly soon after being off work sick or 
losing her job. It follows that the PPI cover, which would pay out for up to 12 months if she 
made a successful claim, was likely to have been suitable for Miss Y.
Ive seen that the policy cost 75p for each £100 Miss Y owed on the card. If she made a 
successful claim, Miss Y would have had 10% of the outstanding balance on the card paid 
for up to 12 months. The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar 
policies offering similar benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable. 
Therefore, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for 
Miss Y.
As well as checking the policy was right for Miss Y, Barclays also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Barclays gave Miss Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for 
her, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her from buying it.
I therefore dont think Miss Ys PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman