DRN-3046928
The complaint
Mr G complains that Builders Direct S.A (Builders Direct) declined his claim for damage to 
tools and garden equipment. He wants Builders Direct to settle his claim and compensate 
him. 
What happened
Mr G owns a large property with sizable grounds. 
In summer 2019 he took out insurance via an intermediary, M, for his home and contents. 
His policy was underwritten by Builders Direct. Cover ran from June 2019 until June 2020. 
In May 2020, Mr G discovered that damage had occurred to tools and equipment kept in a 
steel storage container in his homes grounds. Water had penetrated the container 
repeatedly over a period through a hole in the roof and had caused extensive damage and 
rust. 
Mr G submitted his claim in June 2020. He was given the impression that his claim would be 
covered as his policy was an all risks policy. 
A loss adjuster visited Mr Gs home at the beginning of July 2020. Whilst there, the loss 
adjuster spoke with Mr G and a family member. They told the loss adjuster that it was not 
clear when the damage occurred as the last time Mr G had accessed the container was 
around two years earlier. Mr Gs family member could not recall the last time someone else 
accessed the container but believed it could have been more than a year before. 
Mr G confirmed that no maintenance had been carried out on the container, which had been 
on the site for more than twenty years. 
The loss adjuster took photographs of the damage and concluded that the roof had rusted 
extensively, causing a hole to develop and allowing rainwater into the container whenever it 
rained. The container had standing water on the floor at the time of inspection. 
The loss adjuster prepared a preliminary report for Builders Direct, which it submitted in July 
2020. The loss adjuster considered that the damage had been gradually operating and the 
damage to the roof was wear and tear. 
In late September 2020, Builders Direct wrote to Mr G and informed him that it declined his 
claim. It cited that it considered the damage to the roof to be from wear and tear and the 
damage to the contents of the container to be sustained gradually. 
Mr G complained. He argued against the decision because he was advised that he had full 
cover, and also for because Builders Direct had delayed in reaching its decision. 
Builders Direct sent its final response to the complaint in October 2020. It upheld Mr Gs 
complaint about the delay in reaching a decision, but did not uphold his complaint about the 
decision reached. 
Mr G remained unhappy so contacted us.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. He considered that Builders Direct was 
reasonable to conclude that the damage to the container and contents was not covered, but 
he thought that the delay in responding was unreasonable. He considered that Builders 
Direct ought to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused by having to chase the decision multiple times. 
Builders Direct has accepted that view. Mr G did not accept that view and asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs upset at his claim being declined and he has explained that he thinks 
that the container roof and contents ought to be covered because his policy is all risks 
cover. This is why he was led to believe it would be covered when he made the claim. 
I understand this view, and in such circumstances the onus is on the business to show that 
an exclusion to cover applies, rather than for a consumer to demonstrate that an insured 
event has taken place. 
In this case, Builders Direct appeared to rely on several clauses in its decision to decline 
cover. These included that damage by rain that is not part of a storm, and damage caused 
by wear, tear or gradual deterioration... are excluded from cover. It also refers to the policy 
holders obligation to take care of their property and to keep it in good condition.
Having reviewed the loss adjusters report, and reviewing the photographs, I think the loss 
adjusters conclusion, which was then adopted by Builders Direct, is reasonable. This was 
that the damage to the roof occurred through wear and tear and a lack of maintenance, and 
that the contents were damaged through exposure to rainwater other than in a storm. 
Consequently, I think that Builders Direct has demonstrated than an exclusion, or 
exclusions, applied, and so I agree with the investigators view the decision to decline the 
claim was not unreasonable. 
I agree, however, with the investigators view that the time taken for Builders Direct to make 
its decision and to communicate this to Mr G was excessive and wrong. Builders Direct had 
the information it needed to make its decision from July 2020, but then delayed until late 
September 2020 before declining the claim and letting Mr G know. I think this caused Mr G 
distress and inconvenience as he had to chase Builders Direct for communication, and 
believed for nearly 4 months that his claim would be covered. 
I have seen evidence of Mr G chasing a response on multiple occasions and agree that he 
was caused substantial distress and inconvenience from this delay. I think that £100 is an 
appropriate sum to reflect the chasing that Mr G had to do.
I note that Mr G does not think this amount sufficient, but it is in line with other awards we 
make in similar circumstances. I appreciate that he will be disappointed by this, but I hope 
that this explains my reasons for reaching this decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Builders Direct 
S.A to pay £100 compensation to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman