DRN-2397429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt offer them enough 
for their written-off car when they made a claim on Mrs Ks motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K believe their car was worth £4,500, especially given that theyd spent a lot of 
money on maintaining it well and replacing parts. Admiral only offered them £3,016 for it. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about the valuation. She 
checked four of the national trade guides and found that the highest valuation was £3,560. 
But that valuation was out on line with the other three, so she disregarded it. Two of the 
guides gave valuations that were in line with the sum Admiral had offered Mr and Mrs K, so 
the investigator thought it had acted reasonably. 
Mr K said in the last year and a half theyd spent nearly £3,000 on the car. He said the 
adverts theyd seen showed that similar cars were on sale for £4,500 and would probably 
sell for at least £4,000. He said they shouldnt lose out due to the accident, particularly when 
it was caused by the other driver. 
The investigator said the valuations shed considered were for a car in good condition. She 
said the sum spent on maintaining Mr ks car couldnt be factored in to the settlement, as 
thats not in line with our approach to valuations. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks policy said the cars market value would be paid should it be lost. We think the best 
way to establish what a cars market value is likely to be is to check the valuations set out in 
the national trade guides. Theyre based on extensive research of likely selling prices across 
the UK. We dont think adverts are usually reliable. Not only are they based on asking prices 
(which are subject to negotiation) but its also the case that small differences between what 
seem to be similar cars can greatly impact on their selling prices. 
Admiral looked at two of the trade guides before making its final offer to Mr and Mrs K. The 
highest valuation given in them was £3,560 and the other was £3,025. Admiral discounted 
both valuations, reducing the highest one to £3,016, which was the sum it offered. It 
explained that the sum was reduced because it had taken into account various factors about 
the car that lessened its value, including the very high mileage for its age. 
When our investigator checked all four trade guides, she discounted the highest one 
(£3,560) as it was out of line with the others, in line with our usual practice. The average of 
the other three guides valuations was £3,117. But insurers arent required to base their 
offers on an average. And two of the three valuations were very close together, at £3,016 
and £3,025, which suggests that the cars market value was around that level. 
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral acted reasonably in offering £3,016. I know 
that sum is a long way from the amount Mr and Mrs K expected, but as Ive already 
explained, we dont think adverts are a reliable way of establishing a cars market value. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K had spent a considerable sum on maintaining the car. But as 
the investigator pointed out, we cant take that into account, as we wouldnt expect it to add 
value. Consumers are required to keep their cars well-maintained, or they lose value. I think 
its likely that without the work that was done on maintenance, the cars condition would have 
led to a lower settlement offer.
I understand why Mr and Mrs K genuinely believe that they should have been offered more 
for the car, and why theyre disappointed with Admirals offer. But as I dont think it acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold their complaint.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman