DRN-2832310
The complaint
Mr E complains that a mobile phone that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Klarna Bank AB (publ) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr E entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Klarna Bank that he electronically signed 
in December 2019 to pay for a mobile phone. The price of the phone was £869, he paid a 
deposit of £86.90 and agreed to make a loan repayment of £32.76 and then 23 monthly loan 
repayments of £32.58. The loan was interest free.
He had some issues with the phone the day that he bought it, including with getting a signal, 
connecting to his car and the phone overheating. He used the manufacturers online and 
phone support to try to deal with the issues but when they werent successful he went to see 
the supplier  that was about nine days after hed bought the phone. The suppliers 
consultation report says that the connectivity issue was on the network side due to a weak 
signal and that it was unable to replicate the fault. It also said that it didnt have the facilities 
to replicate the issue with connecting to a car. 
Mr E complained to Klarna Bank but it said the supplier had no record of the phone being 
logged into any store to run the diagnostics. It said that the supplier would be willing to assist 
with his concern and that he should set up an in store appointment  but that he wouldnt be 
able to reject the phone and any issues would be repaired. Mr E wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded that 
the supplier had breached its contract by failing to provide Mr E with goods of a satisfactory 
quality. He recommended that Klarna Bank should unwind the agreement at no cost to Mr E 
and refund the deposit and any instalments made by him. He also said that Mr E might need 
to return the handset to Klarna Bank as part of the settlement. Mr E has accepted our 
investigators recommendations but Klarna Bank hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr E used credit in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for the phone;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Es complaint about Klarna Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the phone 
and that Klarna Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Es claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
Mr E had issues with the phone the day that he bought it and he used the 
manufacturers online and phone support to try to deal with those issues;
when that want successful he went to see to the supplier  that was about nine days 
after hed bought the phone  but the suppliers consultation report says that the 
connectivity issue was on the network side due to a weak signal and that it was 
unable to replicate the fault, and that it didnt have the facilities to replicate the issue 
with connecting to a car;
Mr E then complained to Klarna Bank but it said that the supplier had no record of the 
phone being logged into any store to run the diagnostics  but the supplier would be 
willing to assist with his concern and that he should set up an in store appointment  
but that he wouldnt be able to reject the phone and any issues would be repaired;
the consultation report shows that the supplier had run diagnostics on the phone  
and as that was only nine days after it was bought by Mr E, I consider that he would 
have had the right to reject it if there were any faults with it;
I consider that the information that the supplier had given to Klarna Bank was 
incorrect and I also consider that it would be reasonable to expect Klarna Bank to 
have done more to assist Mr E with his issues with the phone;
although the supplier was unable to diagnose a fault with the phone, Mr E says that 
he hasnt been able to use it and I consider it to be more likely than not that there 
was a fault with the phone which caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality 
when it was bought by Mr E;
I consider that to have been a breach of contract by the supplier for which Klarna 
Bank is liable under section 75 and that its response to his claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable; and
I find that its fair and reasonable for Mr E to reject the phone and for Klarna Bank to 
take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Klarna Bank should end the fixed sum loan agreement, at no cost to Mr E. If it 
wants the phone back it should arrange for the phone to be collected from him, also at no 
cost to him. I find that it should also remove any information about the fixed sum loan 
agreement that its recorded on Mr Es credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr E paid a deposit of £86.90 for the phone. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Klarna Bank to refund that deposit to him, with interest. I also find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Klarna Bank to refund to him the monthly loan 
repayments that hes made under the agreement, with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and I order Klarna Bank AB (publ) to:
1. End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr E.
2. Arrange for the phone to be collected from Mr E (if it wants it back) also at no 
cost to Mr E.
3. Refund to Mr E the deposit of £86.90 that he paid for the phone.4. Refund to Mr E the monthly repayments that hes made under the agreement.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement that its recorded 
on Mr Es credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Klarna Bank to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Klarna Bank must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman