DRN-2886771
The complaint
B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed its accounts.
What happened
In May 2019, HSBC asked B to complete an online review as part of its regulatory checks. 
HSBC wrote again on 11 June 2019, 2 July 2019, 30 July 2019, 19 August 2019 and 
3September 2019.
In the interim, B wrote to HSBC on 26 July 2019, 7 August 2019, 2 September 2019 and 8 
November 2019. The letters asked that the review be done by post. HSBC arranged a 
meeting at the local branch on 18 December 2019. HSBC closed Bs accounts on 19 March 
2020.
B complained. It had written to HSBC and said the main director wasnt comfortable to 
complete the checks and provide documents online  he was 76 and didnt want to use the 
internet, as he had been the victim of identity theft previously. B hadnt received a reply from 
HSBC to its letters. And when the director went to a meeting at the local branch on 18 
December 2019, B assumed hed provided everything needed  but it heard nothing from 
HSBC after the meeting. So, B was surprised when the account was closed in March 2020. 
This caused B a lot of work to find another bank and let its clients and customers know its 
new bank details.
HSBC said theyd made the decision to close Bs account as theyd not received the 
documents to complete their checks. They apologised for not replying to Bs letters. They 
organised a meeting at the branch on 18 December 2019  to complete the checks there.
B brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said that he wouldnt interfere with HSBCs 
decision to close Bs accounts  this was up to HSBC and was part of its regulatory 
obligations. All banks, including HSBC, had to carry out checks in line with anti-money 
laundering regulations, including suitable identification of customers  and this review was 
part of that. Because HSBC were unable to complete the review for B, they closed its 
accounts. But  theyd not provided a good service, as theyd not replied to Bs letters. In 
discussions with our investigator, HSBC offered compensation of £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
B rejected HSBCs offer. It said it didnt compensate it for the time and trouble it suffered in 
having to open new bank accounts and advise its customers of new bank details. B asked 
that an ombudsman look at its complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a slightly different view to our investigator  I think that the service failings of HSBC 
warrant a higher amount of compensation.
Ive looked at what happened here. I agree that its not the role of this service to interfere 
with the necessary regulatory checks that HSBC must comply with. Also, if HSBC take the 
decision to close an account  thats their commercial decision and we wouldnt challenge 
that. In fact, B isnt questioning HSBCs right to close its account  but it believes the 
communications from HSBC were poor  and I agree.
Looking at the letters sent out by HSBC in 2019  each one asked B to complete the 
checks by logging online and providing documents. B wrote four letters to HSBC between 
July 2019 and November 2019  it said that it didnt want to do the checks online  as the 
main director was aged 76 and didnt want to use the internet - as hed been the victim of 
identity fraud previously. It was worried about security of using the internet for this 
suppose. B wanted to send the documents by post or go to the local branch with them. 
HSBC didnt reply to these letters  but issued their standard letters asking for the online 
checks to be done. In the case of the letters sent by B on 26 July 2019 and 8 November 
2019, HSBC didnt reply at all. So  B had made a specific request that HSBC to deal with 
their checks a different way  and HSBC didnt try to help here or reply to what B had 
asked.
When HSBC wrote to B on 11 December 2019, they agreed that the review could be done 
in the branch and arranged a meeting on 18 December 2019. The meeting took place. B 
assumed the review was been completed satisfactorily. But it heard nothing further until the 
account was closed in March 2020. We asked HSBC if theyd written to or contacted B to 
say it had failed the review - and what was going to happen. But they didnt write to B 
again. They sent two text messages on 23 December 2019 and 8 January 2020 to say B 
should log onto online banking to complete the KYC (Know Your Customer) review. But 
HSBC had already been advised by B that it didnt want to use the internet  so HSBC 
shouldve been aware of this. And at least written to B to say what had happened and what 
else was needed. But they didnt.
HSBC then closed Bs account - without any further communications - on 19 March 2020. 
So  B had then to quickly find another bank and advise new bank details to its clients. This 
was stressful and time consuming. HSBC shouldve communicated with B much better  
and been aware of Bs wish to provide the KYC documents by post or at a meeting.
To be fair to HSBC, they said both to B and to us that  as a policy - it wanted the reviews to 
be completed online  as they could ensure quality control that way. But also  here was a 
customer who all along, had asked for some flexibility in how its review should be 
completed. And  it said it had banked with HSBC for decades  so I think that was a 
reasonable request by B.
So  in view of this, I think HSBC should pay B a higher amount of compensation - £150.
This in addition to the £150 theyve already offered.
Responses to the provisional decision:
B accepted my findings but said that it thought a higher amount of compensation than £300 
should be paid for the inconvenience caused. HSBC accepted my findings.
So  I now need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B says that a higher amount of compensation should be paid. Ive considered this in the 
context of what this service would expect to see for this and similar complaints  and it is in 
the middle of what we would class as moderate inconvenience  and so, I wont be 
changing what I said in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay compensation of £300 to B for distress 
and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman