DRN-4180480
Complaint
Ms D has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Ms D with a loan for £2,000.00 in September 2018. This loan had 
an APR of 99.9% and a term of 12 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,822.16, including interest, fees and charges of £822.16, was due to be repaid in 12 
monthly instalments of £235.18. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ds complaint and he thought 118 118 Money shouldnt 
have provided Ms D with her loan. So he thought that Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ds complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Ms D such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Ms D could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that Ms D had had previous 
difficulties with credit  in the form of multiple defaults. 
So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more further information from Ms D in 
order to have been able to make an informed decision on whether to lend to her. 
Furthermore, its clear from the additional information Ive seen that Ms Ds expenditure 
meant that she was going to struggle to make the necessary payments here even though 
they were relatively low.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms D has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Ms Ds indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   Ms 
Ds version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Ds existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Ms Ds circumstances would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 118 118 
Money provided Ms D with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Ms D has ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms D lost out because of 
what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Ms D
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Ms D by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Ms Ds loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms D made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If 
Ms D has already paid more than £2,000.00 on this loan then 118 118 Money should 
treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms 
D;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms D to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Ms Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back 
from any third-party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made 
to the account and its the case that Ms D is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman