DRN-3934242
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his car insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
cancelling his cover following a total loss claim.
What happened
Mr As car was subject to a claim on his policy  and Advantage settled it as one of total 
loss. On 13 July 2022, Mr A spoke to Advantage about the settlement and what would 
happen next. On 15 July 2022 Mr A received a text message from Advantage confirming it 
had issued its settlement payment. The payment arrived in Mr As bank account on 19 July 
and Mr A bought a new car on 15 August. When Mr A contacted Advantage to provide it with 
the details of his new car he was told the policy had been cancelled on 12 August. 
Advantage said that was because Mr A had not contacted it within 30 days to tell it he had 
purchased a new car. 
Mr A felt Advantages actions were unfair. He said he did not recall being told during the call 
on 13 July that he had a set time within which to replace the car in order to keep the policy. 
And he said, even if Advantage was correct regarding applying a timescale, that should have 
started from 15 July, ending on 14 August 2022  meaning his purchase on 15 August 2022 
was only a day late. He felt Advantage was unfair to have cancelled the policy for the sake of 
one day. 
In its final response made to Mr As complaint, Advantage confirmed that the terms and 
conditions, which apply to Mr As cover, state that following a total loss claim settlement, if a 
the car is not replaced within 30 days, the policy will be cancelled. It felt, therefore, that it 
hadnt done anything wrong. Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator ultimately did not uphold the complaint. Noting that Mr A had not recalled 
detail discussed with Advantage on 13 July 2022, she considered what the policys terms 
and conditions said. She also noted that Mr A had been made aware on 15 July 2022 that 
the claim settlement payment had been issued to him. She was aware that Advantage had 
actually cancelled the policy slightly earlier than allowed for (12 August rather than 
14 August) but she didnt think this failure was material to the situation overall. She noted 
Mr A had replaced his car outside of the term allowed for in the policy to keep the cover 
active. She was satisfied that Advantage had acted fairly and reasonably when it had 
cancelled the cover. 
Mr A was unhappy. He said it wasnt fair that Advantage had cancelled the policy earlier than 
the policy allowed for. And hed received the claim settlement on 19 July 2022 and replaced 
the car within 30 days of that date. Our Investigator reviewed Mr As reply but wasnt 
persuaded to change her view on the complaint. Mr As complaint was passed for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A is frustrated  he had paid for the whole year of cover and then, 
following Advantages cancellation, which came only part way through his policy year with it, 
he had to find cover elsewhere. So Mr A had an unexpected cost. 
I know Mr A talked with Advantage in July 2022 about what would happen next now it was 
settling his claim for his car subject of the claim. But Im also aware that Mr A said the line 
wasnt clear so he doesnt recall what Advantage said about replacing the car. Thats 
unfortunate. But I note that Advantages policy does explain what happens in respect of the 
policy when a claim is settled as one of total loss. So even if Mr A wasnt aware of any 
comment Advantage made during his call with it, Advantage had made him aware via the 
policy wording.
Im also mindful that Mr A received a text from Advantage on the day it issued the settlement 
to him. So even though he did not receive the funds until a couple of days later, he knew the 
settlement had been made to him. That meant, in line with the policy wording, Mr A had 
30 days from 15 July 2022 to replace his car if he wanted to set the new car up on the 
existing policy and benefit from the cover already paid for. However, Mr A only replaced his 
car on 15 August 2022, with Advantage having cancelled the cover already.
Advantage did cancel the cover a day or two earlier than strictly allowed for by the policy. 
But Mr A hadnt called it on 13 or 14 August 2022 to ask for his new car to be added, only to 
find the policy had already cancelled. He only did that on 15 August 2022. So Advantages 
error of cancelling a day or two early doesnt materially affect the situation. In short it was 
entitled to have cancelled the policy by the time Mr A called it on 15 August 2022, which is 
what it had done.
I appreciate that Mr A feels that Advantage has been a bit unfair, given he only called it one 
day late. But Advantage, in line with the policy, had already cancelled the cover, by the time 
Mr A called it to advise he did want to add a new car. Advantage couldnt reasonably have 
kept the policy active on the off-chance Mr A had wanted to replace the car subject of the 
claim. And as Advantage had already cancelled the cover by the time Mr A called it, I cant 
reasonably require it to reinstate the cover. For me to make an award, I have to be satisfied 
that an insurer has done something wrong, and as Advantage acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, Im satisfied its act of cancelling the policy was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman