DRN-4395538
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc wouldnt pay their cancellation claim 
under their travel insurance. My references to AXA include its claims handler.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr A and Mrs S bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. AXA 
was the insurer for the relevant sections of the policy.
The policy cover started on 29 April 2023 and will end 28 April 2024. Mr A and Mrs S were 
due to go on holiday to Europe from 30 Apr 2023 to 9 May 2023.
On 7 April 2023 Mrs S brother who lives in Asia was ill so she and then also Mr A went to 
support him. As Mrs S brothers health didnt improve Mr A and Mrs S were unable to return 
to the UK to go on their holiday to Europe. They had to cancelled the holiday and made a 
claim on the policy.
AXA declined the claim. It said Mrs S brothers illness, which was the cause of the cancelled 
holiday, started before the policy had started.
Mr A and Mrs S complained to us. They say they werent claiming for Mrs S brothers 
illness, they were claiming for not being able to go on holiday because they had to stay to 
look after Mrs S brother.
Our investigator said AXA had reasonably declined the claim.
Mr A and Mrs S disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They said AXA was 
manipulating the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I have to decide whether AXA fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill 
explain why.
As our investigator explained, travel insurance policies dont cover every situation a 
consumer finds themselves in. The policy terms and conditions set out what risks an insurer 
is prepared to cover and whats required for the insurer to pay a claim.
Even though Mr A and Mrs S bought the policy in January 2023 they chose for the policy 
cover to start on 29 April 2023, the date before they were due to go on holiday. 
The insurance cover period of 29 April 2023 to 28 April 2024 is clearly set out in Mr A and 
Mrs S one page insurance validity certificate, under the heading Your policy schedule.
The policy defines period of insurance as meaning:
if annual multi trip cover is selected: the period of 12 months for which we have 
accepted the premium as stated in the schedule. Under these policies Section A - 
Cancellation cover will be operative from the date stated in the schedule or the time 
of booking any trip (whichever is the later date) and terminates on commencement of 
any trip
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear that cancellation cover begins from the start date of 
the policy period in the policy schedule, 29 April 2023, or the date of booking the trip if thats 
later. Mr A and Mr S booked their trip before 29 April 2023. So cancellation cover only 
started from 29 April 2023.
The cause of Mr A and Mrs S cancellation of their holiday was Mrs S brothers illness. 
Although his illness was ongoing on and after the 29 April 2023, the important point is that 
the illness started before the cover provided by the policy started.
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs S think AXA is unfairly using the poilcy terms for its own benefit. 
But its standard for insurers not to cover a cancellation claim when the cause of the 
cancellation started before the policy and cancellation cover started, as in this case. And the 
policy schedule did clearly show the date cover started.
Im satisfied that AXA could fairly and reasonably say there was no cover for Mr A and 
Mrs S cancelled holiday because the cause of the cancellation started before cover under 
the policy started.
Mr A and Mrs S chose the start date of the policy as 29 April 2023 even though they bought 
the policy in January 2023. We think its fair for the policy sales process to make it very clear 
that choosing a later start date on an annual policy means theres no cancellation cover until 
the policy start date. 
If Mr A and Mrs S think the implications of choosing a later policy start date wasnt made 
clear to them when they were buying the policy they may want to complain to the business 
which sold the policy. If they cant reach agreement with that business they can make a 
separate complain to us to consider.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman