DRN-3393866
The complaint
Mrs O complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly and provided her 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mrs O as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal repayment Loan status
18/11/2015 £3,300 48 months £175.64 £8,430.93 Outstanding
Mrs O mainly said that she doesnt feel her loan application was properly assessed and she 
had other debts when she took out this loan. Mrs O was also unhappy about the way 
AvantCredit treated her when she was struggling to make repayments.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that AvantCredit shouldnt have 
provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was recommending that the complaint 
should be upheld and she set out directions indicating what AvantCredit should do to put 
things right. 
AvantCredit hasnt responded. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mrs Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
When AvantCredit agreed to provide this loan, alongside considering what Mrs Os likely 
expenditure would be each month, AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks to 
understand Mrs Os credit history and current credit commitments. It relied on the net 
monthly income figure it verified using information provided by a credit reference agency.
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when 
Mrs O applied for this loan, the credit checks it obtained showed that she had defaulted on 
an account just 5 months earlier. Given that the default balance was £203, I think 
AvantCredit shouldve realised this suggested there was a real risk that Mrs O might struggle 
to afford the repayment for this loan - which would be only £27 or so less each month than 
the defaulted amount  bearing in mind also that she had signed up to pay this for the next 
four years. The credit report also showed that Mrs O was at or over the limit on both her 
credit cards, and her credit card balance limit ratio had increased significantly from 0.08 just 
3 months ago to a ratio of 1.This reflected a big jump in her reliance on credit  and the total 
increase in all her credit balances was shown as £3,443 over this period.
AvantCredit also saw some bank statement information it asked Mrs O to provide as part of 
the loan application process. Our adjudicator mentioned that 4 days worth of transactions 
had shown that Mrs O appeared to be actively engaged in gambling activity - 21 transactions 
were apparent over a single day for instance - totalling £470.50.
Given this evidence of Mrs Os credit history and spending, I think AvantCredit should have 
realised that there was a clear risk that Mrs O wouldnt be able to sustainably afford the 
repayments for this loan. I think thats further borne out by the fact that taking this loan 
meant that Mrs O would now have to pay around a third of her take home pay just on 
servicing debt. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mrs Os monthly income 
AvantCredit couldnt reasonably say that it was likely she would be able to repay its loan in a 
sustainable way over the loan term. 
Our adjudicator didnt think AvantCredit had caried out a proportionate check before lending 
 and I agree. But, I dont need to say more about this as it doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint because I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision when it lent to 
Mrs O based on the information it had gathered. I think its own credit checks and the other 
information it saw in her bank statement painted a picture of someone struggling to manage 
money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mrs O would likely 
struggle to manage the loan repayments in a way that was sustainable for her. And so I dont 
think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision on this occasion when it agreed to provide 
this loan to Mrs O based on the information it had in front of it. 
I've taken into account that AvantCredit understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But AvantCredit didnt have control over how Mrs O used the loan as it paid 
the loan balance to her. And even if Mrs O had used this loan to repay some existing debt, 
I dont think AvantCredit had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved her overall 
position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial 
situation, given her outstanding indebtedness overall and reliance on using credit cards - 
which of course would make available more credit if she paid the balances down. 
Having seen the extent of Mrs Os money problems, I think it shouldve been apparent that 
there was a real risk she would use the loan instead to meet her immediate financial 
demands or other spending priorities. So all the indications were that she would most likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. And I believe that if AvantCredit had done a proportionate check it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mrs O and 
recognised that it shouldnt have provided it. 
So, I am upholding Mrs Os complaint that she should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Mrs O 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Mrs O in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs O to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Mrs O shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed.
If AvantCredit has sold any outstanding debt, it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps.
Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs O received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs O made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mrs O having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then 
AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mrs O bearing in 
mind its obligation to treat Mrs O sympathetically and fairly if she still needs further 
time to pay
whilst its fair that Mrs Os credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs Os credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mrs O.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman