DRN-3017964
The complaint
Mrs B complains that her application for finance was declined by Ald Automotive Limited. 
Shes unhappy that Ald carried out a credit check for an amount which was greater than the 
amount she had applied for.
What happened
Mrs B wanted to buy a car and applied for a personal contract hire agreement via a broker. 
She says the amount of finance required was £18,959.59 from Ald (the finance provider).
Mrs Bs application for finance was declined. When she checked her credit file, she noticed 
that Ald had carried out a credit check for a higher amount of £31,701.00. Mrs B queried this 
with the broker. It told her it had only applied for funding of £18,959.59 and suggested that 
Ald mustve made an error.
Mrs B contacted Ald. It advised her that it was not obliged to provide the reason for the 
application being declined. Mrs B responded and asked Akld why it had carried out a search 
for a higher amount than she had applied for. Ald advised her that the higher figure was the 
funded capital amount and explained that this was because under its terms and conditions it 
held customers responsible for the entire cost of the car, after deduction of reclaimed VAT 
and upfront payments. It said that this was to cover the eventually of an insurer not settling a 
write off claim due to driver negligence.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Alds response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the checks for the higher amount were 
part of Alds lending criteria and that this service had no power to change the criteria or 
require Ald to explain why the application had been declined.
Mrs B remained unhappy. She said it hadnt been made clear to her that Ald would carry out 
a check for the higher amount. She said shed leased more expensive cars in the past with 
other finance providers and that none of the other provider had carried out checks for the 
total value of the car. Mrs B said that a result of the credit check carried out by Ald, shed 
been declined finance by two other lenders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I under stand why Mrs B is unhappy that a credit search was carried out for a higher amount 
than she was expecting. She feels that Ald shouldve obtained her consent before it did so. 
Shes also said that she wouldnt have applied for finance with Ald if shed known about its 
procedures.
Ive considered the explanation provided by Ald for carrying out a credit check for a higher 
amount. It has made reference to the funded capital amount. This isnt a term Im familiar 
with and Ive been unable to find reference to it in the available documentation. However, Ald 
has explained that it is part of its contract terms to hold customers responsible for the entire 
cost of the vehicle, and that the credit check for the higher amount was in line with its 
standard procedure.
This service cant tell a business what its lending criteria or procedures should be. So, Im 
unable to say that Ald has done anything wrong or acted unfairly when it follow its own 
procedure.
Ive gone on to think about whether Mrs B shouldve been advised that a credit check for a 
higher amount would be carried out. On balance, I think this should have been made clear to 
her. Mrs B has said that if shed been made aware that the credit check would be for a 
higher amount, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the application. Ive no reason to doubt 
what Mrs B says about this,. So Ive gone on to consider the impact of the credit check for 
the higher amount.
Aldi has said that the application was declined based on the credit data provided by the 
credit reference agencies. This suggest that it wasnt the credit check for the higher amount 
of itself which led to the application being declined but something else on Mrs Bs credit file. I 
can see that the credit check was a soft search, which wouldnt have impacted the credit file. 
So I cant safely conclude that the credit check for the higher amount of itself caused 
detriment to Mrs B.
I appreciate that Mrs b has said that she was declined finance by other lenders after the 
application to Ald was declined. However, theres no evidence to suggest that the credit 
check carried out by Ald was the reason for subsequent applications being declined, or that 
the credit  check carried out by Ald negatively impacted her  credit file. On balance, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs B has been negatively impacted as a result of the credit check carried 
out by Ald. 
Taking everything into account, and for the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman