DRN-3185637
The complaint
Miss I complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
August 2015 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute. So, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
For clarity this decision is only about the sale of the URCA. Other issues Miss I has raised 
are being looked at in another case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I says that Halifax advised her in a meeting in a branch to upgrade to the URCA to 
improve her credit rating and get a loan. She says Halifax applied for the URCA online in the 
branch on her behalf and it wasnt suitable for her and she didnt want it.
Halifax says that Miss I chose to take out the URCA and did so online herself based on the 
information supplied in its online process.
Ive thought about how the URCA was sold as it is a key issue in this case. 
While I dont doubt Miss Is honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that Miss Is 
memory is mistaken.
I say this because Halifax has provided a record of its discussions with Miss I over the 
relevant period and it doesnt show any discussion in August 2015.
Halifax has also provided a record showing that the URCA was taken out online. And Miss I 
agrees that it was taken out online.
But for a Halifax staff member to act on her behalf and take out the URCA through her online 
banking account, that person wouldve had to go against Halifax banking procedures and 
wouldve needed access to Miss Is security number which I think its unlikely she would 
have provided.
So, I think its more likely than not that Miss I knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the URCA online herself.
As Miss I went through Halifaxs online application process, she would not have received 
advice but she wouldve received the key information about the account, and this did not 
include anything about improving her credit rating and helping to get a loan. 
So, if a staff member had said this to her at any time, and this was the only reason she was 
applying for the URCA, I think the absence of any information about credit or borrowing in 
the online process wouldve caused her to stop her application. But she didnt stop, and she 
ticked the boxes to agree online to take it out.
The URCA benefits included travel insurance, car breakdown service, mobile phone 
insurance, home emergency cover and a £300 fee free overdraft. 
Halifax has provided evidence that Miss I travelled abroad, had a car and mobile phone and 
she was interested in obtaining credit. The insurance and breakdown cover were provided 
without any registration, so she had that cover throughout the time she had the URCA. And 
she subsequently claimed on the travel insurance. So, I can see why she wouldve been 
interested in the URCA based on the information she received.
So, taking all this into account, I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt do anything 
wrong in the URCA sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman