DRN-2210104
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Since about 2009, Mr W had a British Gas policy that had been renewed in early July each 
year. The policy covered central heating repairs and an annual service visit (ASV). It also 
covered plumbing and drainage repairs, at least since 2018.
Mr W complained that British Gas hadnt done an ASV each year. He said that each time he 
made an appointment, British Gas cancelled it at short notice  even after he complained.
In April 2020, British Gas said it was sending Mr W £65.00 for a missed ASV. Neither British 
Gas nor Mr W has shown us any final response from British Gas.
Mr W brought his complaint to us in June 2020. He said British Gas should pay £300.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
British Gas had done enough to put matters right.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to British Gas on 22 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider that £65.00 was enough compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the two separate cancelled appointments. 
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W  in addition to its payment of £65.00 - an additional £85.00 
to bring the total to £150.00.
British Gas has nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision. Mr W adds the 
following:
When British Gas cancel appointments, it breaks its policy terms that this should be 
notified in email or letter.
When you rebook, you go back to the end of the queue and have to wait another 7 
weeks.
When they keep cancelling, this is why you miss the services over the course of 5/6 
years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unless there are exceptional circumstances preventing a complaint being brought to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, we cant consider any complaint about events more than six 
years old, or more than three years since a consumer ought reasonably to have known that 
he had cause to complain.  
From its work history of visits completed, I can see that British Gas did ASVs on 28 June 
2013 and 14 July 2014. 
If British Gas missed any ASV before that, then Mr W ought reasonably to have known 
straightaway that he had cause to complain. Theres no evidence of any such complaint  or 
of any exceptional circumstances preventing such a complaint. So I can only look at later 
events.
Mr W rightly expected to receive an ASV as well as cover for repairs. The ASV would be the 
only visit British Gas made unless and until it had to make a repair visit. 
British Gas has revised its policy terms from time to time. I can see that  from March 2014  
the policy terms included the following:
We will meet our responsibilities under your Agreement within a reasonable time 
unless it is impossible because of circumstances outside our control.
From October 2015, that was re-worded as follows:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I can see that British Gas didnt do another ASV until 25 November 2015. And it didnt do 
any ASV in the calendar year 2016. But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr W had 
made any appointment that British Gas cancelled. So I dont think British Gas treated Mr W 
unfairly at that time.
From the British Gas work history, Ive seen that there was an ASV on 20 February 2017. 
Mr Ws recollection is that British Gas cancelled about six times. But he hasnt listed the   
dates. From the British Gas records, I can see that Mr W booked an appointment for 22 May 
2018, but British Gas cancelled it on 18 May 2018. Mr W was entitled to an ASV within a 
reasonable time. And Im not satisfied that British Gas did the ASV within a reasonable time 
 or that anything made that impossible.
From June 2018 the policy terms have included the following:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months after your last service visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), 
we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual serviceI consider that this policy term applied to Mr W from his renewal in early July 2018. I havent 
found any policy term requiring British Gas to make such rearrangement in writing.
An ASV took place on 13 July 2018. That went some way towards making up for the failure 
to do the ASV sooner. But I find it fair and reasonable that British Gas should also pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of an ASV in May or 
June 2018. I will come back to that.
I havent seen enough evidence that Mr W booked an appointment for any date in 2019 and 
British Gas cancelled it. So I dont think British Gas treated Mr W unfairly at that time.
The British Gas records dont show an appointment in January 2020. But I accept Mr Ws 
statement that he had an appointment for 23 January and British Gas cancelled it. I think 
thats why he complained on about 22 January that hed booked an appointment but that it 
wasnt until 24 March 2020. 
British Gas hasnt provided evidence of high demand in January 2020. So I find it fair and 
reasonable that British Gas should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the cancellation. I will come back to that.
British Gas cancelled the appointment on 24 March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
British Gas did an ASV on 7 July 2020. I think that was as soon as was possible after the 
easing of lock-down restrictions in early July 2020. So I dont think British Gas treated Mr W 
unfairly at that time.
Putting things right
I now come back to the issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the cancelled appointments in May 2018 and January 2020. As these were two separate 
cancellations, I dont consider that £65.00 was enough. I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
British Gas to pay an additional £85.00 to bring the total to £150.00.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W  in addition to its payment of £65.00 - an 
additional £85.00 to bring the total to £150.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman