DRN-3671528
The complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC lost items she left with them under their safe 
custody service. 
Mrs C is represented by Mr C but Ive referred only to Mrs C as its her complaint.
What happened
Mrs C had a box held at Barclays. It was originally deposited with the bank in 1986 and last 
accessed in 1992. 
In 2021, Mrs C contacted Barclays as she wanted to access the box. When the box couldnt 
be immediately located, Barclays looked into what had happened. They couldnt locate the 
box or find out what happened to it. So they accepted that it had been lost and invited Mrs C 
to submit evidence about the boxs contents. 
Mrs C did so and Barclays considered what shed provided. Barclays said although Mrs C 
had been able to provide some photographs with approximate values  which shed found 
online  there was nothing further provided to support her claim about what was in the box 
such as receipts or insurance valuations. Because of this they said they couldnt offer to 
cover the loss of individual items. But they were prepared to offer Mrs C £4,000 in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of the box and the items. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. Again, Mrs C provided the online valuation 
information to us and also photographs of family members wearing some of the items she 
said had been in the box. Our Investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint. He said, in 
summary, as Mrs Cs evidence didnt show that any of the items were ever in the box, he 
thought Barclays offer to pay her £4,000 was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C didnt accept this. She maintained she believed the box must have been stolen and 
said the items were given to her by a family member, held significant sentimental value and 
were intended to provide financial security.
 
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C believes someone at Barclays must have stolen her box, knowing there were valuable 
items in it. 
Barclays has carried out an extensive search for Mrs Cs box. Based on the information Ive 
seen, this includes reviewing their records from the time, manually searching at the branch 
and speaking to staff about their recollections. So Im satisfied theyve done what wed 
expect to find Mrs Cs box. 
I havent seen anything, beyond Mrs Cs assertion, to suggest the box was stolen. But even 
if it was  I dont think that would substantially change Mrs Cs position  because theres 
very little evidence about what was in the box. Ill explain more about this below.  
Although its unclear how the box was lost, both parties agree Barclays lost Mrs Cs safety 
deposit box. So what remains for me to consider is what Barclays should do to put things 
right. 
Mrs C says the box contained items totalling approximately £135,000. Shes provided a list 
of what she believes to have been in the box. But says she was aided by friends and 
relatives in compiling this list and also says there may have been other items in the box, 
which she cant now remember. So, Mrs C isnt sure what was in the box herself. 
These were items she says were given as gifts to her and her husband by a late family 
member - so they hold sentimental value. Mrs C has explained the intention of these gifts 
was to provide financial security and be passed down to younger family members in due 
course. Shes provided online valuations of similar items and a selection of photographs 
showing some of the items being worn by members of her family. 
Ive thought carefully about the information Mrs C has provided about the items. However, 
none of this information proves Mrs Cs ownership of the items. Nor does the information 
show the items were held in the box - either when it was first deposited in 1986, or at the 
time of the last access in 1992.
 
Payments for the safe custody service were being paid from a sole account in Mrs Cs name. 
This account was closed in 1998. Barclays say they couldnt trace Mrs C after this, and they 
have no record of payments being made after Mrs Cs account was closed. And the box was 
last accessed in 1992. So Mrs C hadnt accessed the box for almost 30 years, or likely paid 
fees for its storage for over 20 years  by the time she went to Barclays in 2021 to get it. 
The terms and conditions say you are responsible for insuring the deposited items and are 
strongly advised to do so. Mrs C says she did not insure the items as she believed them to 
be safe being held at the bank. I can understand Mrs Cs point but the banks terms make it 
clear customers are advised to hold insurance for deposited items. But in any event, Im not 
satisfied Mrs C has shown what was in the box, so, I dont think the evidence Ive seen is 
enough for me to require Barclays to pay Mrs C for the individual items.
Barclays accept theyve made a mistake in losing Mrs Cs box. Theyve offered her £4,000 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. I understand why Mrs C doesnt feel 
this is enough  because it doesnt cover the cost of the items she says were in the box. 
Having considered all the available evidence, I find Barclays offer of £4,000 to be fair and 
reasonable in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. I say this because, for 
the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think Barclays need to pay Mrs C the value of the 
individual items she says were in the box. But its clear that the loss of the box has caused 
Mrs C significant distress and inconvenience  not least because of the stated value of its 
contents and because Mrs C, understandably, believed it to be safe having trusted it to the 
bank for safe-keeping. I think £4,000 fairly reflects the impact the loss of the box has had on 
Mrs C. 
I understand Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision given the items reported value and 
that these were given to her by a family member and hold significant sentimental value. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer of £4,000 to settle this complaint. I find 
this fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs C £4,000.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman