The complaint
Miss O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding her liable for five cash machine 
withdrawals, totalling £2,000, that she says she neither made herself nor authorised anyone 
else to make.   
What happened
At the end of June 2019 Miss O contacted Barclays to say that her bank card had been 
retained by a cash machine, after she'd forgotten her PIN and used the wrong one on a 
number of occasions. She ordered a replacement card and PIN reminder. The card was sent 
to her home address the following day and the PIN reminder, separately, the day after that. 
Miss O says she then went to stay with a relative for a few days. A week after she'd ordered 
her new card and PIN reminder Miss O received a text message from Barclays telling her 
that her account had reached its withdrawal limit. Upon checking, she found out that £2,000 
had been withdrawn from it over the previous few days.  
Barclays looked into what had happened but didn't agree to refund the money that had been 
withdrawn. It noted that the replacement card had been used with the correct PIN to make 
the withdrawals; it thought it unlikely that both had been intercepted or that someone had 
found out what the PIN was as a result of Miss O's previous use of it with the previous card.
Once it had completed its investigation, Barclays debited Miss O's account with £2,000. This 
was an error, as it hadn't pre-credited the account with the £2,000 that was in dispute. The 
bank corrected the error and paid Miss O £200 in recognition of it. It didn't however refund 
the disputed withdrawals, and Miss O referred the case to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought, on balance, it was 
more likely than not that Miss O had authorised the withdrawals. Miss O didn't accept the 
investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that the disputed withdrawals were made using the genuine replacement 
card with the correct PIN. That's consistent with both having been intercepted, since Miss O 
says she never received them. Since the PIN notification appears to have been a reminder 
(rather than a new PIN), I should consider too whether someone who knew Miss O's PIN 
was able to intercept the replacement card. 
I've listened to the call in which Miss O told the bank that her card had been retained in a 
cash machine when she used the wrong PIN on several occasions. The call handler 
DRN-1887541suggested in that call that Miss O could retrieve a PIN reminder using the Barclays mobile 
app, which Miss O had installed on her phone. In fact, it's unlikely Miss O could have done 
that, as she would have needed the card's expiry date and CVV number - which she didn't 
have if she no longer had the card. But I note that Miss O declined that option because, she 
said, she had no data on her phone. 
The replacement card and PIN reminder were sent to Miss O's home address separately on 
different dates. She believes her post arrangements are secure. 
Miss O has said that nobody knew her PIN, and I accept that. I think it unlikely that anyone 
was able to observe her PIN and then intercept her card. Even if someone else did know her 
PIN, they wouldn't have known that Miss O would order a new card a few days after she'd 
last used it and then been away from home. I can therefore safely rule out the possibility that 
the card only was intercepted by someone who already knew the PIN.  
It's possible that one or both items weren't delivered to Miss O's address. It's unlikely though, 
since most post is delivered safely. It's even less likely that neither the card nor the PIN 
reminder were delivered to Miss O's address. What is clear, however, is that both ended up 
in the same place, since they were used together. 
In my view, the most likely explanation for what happened here is that Miss O either 
collected the replacement card herself or arranged for someone else to collect it and the PIN 
reminder. I believe she either made the cash machine withdrawals herself or authorised 
someone else to do so. It wouldn't therefore be fair to make the bank refund them. 
I note too that the bank acknowledged its errors in the handling of Miss O's concerns but 
take the view that it's done enough to compensate her for them.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss O's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman