DRN-2779268
The complaint
Miss W says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, didnt administer her loan repayments 
correctly. She says that she made her repayments by bank transfer and they were 
immediately credited to Draftys bank account. But she says Drafty didnt credit her loan 
account with the repayments immediately and it charged extra interest for the delay. Miss W 
thinks this is unfair. 
Miss W also says that Drafty changed the repayment date of her facility without her consent. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Miss W on 
3 March 2019. This was an arrangement where Miss W could withdraw up to an agreed 
credit limit of £400. She would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance 
each month, or £10 if lower, plus any accrued interest or charges. The credit limit has been 
increased over time. 
Miss W would typically make the repayments by bank transfer. When she did this the faster 
payments system was used and the money would be in Draftys bank account almost 
immediately. 
But Drafty didnt credited the repayment to Miss Ws loan account immediately. And Drafty 
would contact Miss W about the repayment being late and it added interest onto the account. 
Miss W says she has lost out because of this, despite making the repayments on time, and 
this has caused her some trouble and upset. 
Our adjudicators investigation found that whilst a bank transfer would reach Draftys account 
almost immediately, it may take seven to ten days for the loan account to reflect that the 
repayment was made. In the meantime, Drafty would send out payment reminders and 
continue to add daily interest on an amount that didnt reflect the recent repayment. But 
when the repayment was credited to the account this was done as at the date it arrived at 
Draftys bank account. At this point any increased interest on the loan account was removed. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that the repayments were 
credited correctly to Miss Ws loan account after a short delay account in time and there was 
no adverse information on her credit file related to this. So, he didnt think Miss W had 
suffered a loss.
He said that it wasnt unreasonable for Drafty to process the repayments this way. And 
Drafty had explained to Miss W, after the second time she did this, how this would affect her 
loan account. It also offered some alternative repayment methods, but Miss W had 
continued to make the repayments this way. 
Miss W didnt agree with what the adjudicator said. She didnt raise any new points, but she 
did say that, for example, that she was overcharged by £20 in April 2021. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Applying this to 
the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
What Drafty has said is that it takes a short time for a payment made into its bank account 
to be credited to a loan account. I dont think its unreasonable for it to take a short period for 
a bank transfer to be matched to a loan account. But this shouldnt cause Miss W to be 
charged extra interest, or other related costs, so Ive looked to see if this is the case here. 
The core of Miss Ws complaint is that she says Drafty has been unfairly adding interest to 
her account due to how it processed her repayment. But having looked at the loan 
statements I dont think Drafty has done this. As far as I can see any interest that was added 
due to the delay in the repayments being applied to the loan account has been removed. 
This shows in the next statement and Ive not seen a time when any extra interest charged 
due to this delay hasnt been removed. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that shows that there is any negative information about this 
on Miss Ws credit report either. So, I dont think that Miss W has suffered a loss due to the 
time it takes Drafty to credit a bank transfer to a loan account. 
I can see that Drafty did send out some communications that showed the payment was late. 
And this may have caused Miss W some concern. But it did explain at a very early point that 
if Mrs W made the repayments this way then this would happen. And it also explained how 
this would be rectified later on. It also provided information to Miss W about how she could 
make her repayments so they would be credited to her account immediately. As far as I can 
see Mrs W hasnt made the repayments in a different way. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
say that this issue has caused her any material trouble and upset. Im not persuaded to 
uphold this aspect of Miss Ws complaint. 
Miss W says her repayment date was changed without her consent. But Draftys records 
show that it was changed at her request. Unfortunately, it isnt clear which version of events 
is correct. But nevertheless, again, I cant see that this issue has caused any loss or harm to 
Miss W. She hasnt been unable to make the repayments or incurred any further costs due 
to this. 
Overall, given what I have said above, Im not persuaded to uphold Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman