DRN-4127457
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) havent paid the full amount of vet fees 
submitted for her pets treatment on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of the complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised the key 
points below:
Ms P enquired about the policy limits with Pinnacle and was misinformed that she 
had cover of £4,000 for vet fees
This was considered under a previous complaint and Pinnacle offered to pay the 
additional amount of the claim that had been submitted above the actual limit of 
£1,000
This complaint looks at an additional £510.64 that Ms P asked Pinnacle to cover for 
the claim
Pinnacle declined to pay this amount as it said it had previously settled the claim with 
the amount presented, and provided £25 compensation
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and agreed with Pinnacle that it didnt have 
to pay anything more on the claim, saying it already paid above the policy limit
Ms P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision on the case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Pinnacle accept it provided incorrect information to Ms P about the limits of policy cover for 
vet fees. The policy says Pinnacle will pay Up to £4,000 per year subject to a maximum 
£1,000 per condition per year.
Pinnacle paid Ms P £3,687.29 for the invoices she provided. Ms P then submitted a further 
invoice of £510.64 that she requested Pinnacle pay under the claim.
What Ive considered is what Ms P is entitled to under the policy. As above, the policy limits 
the amount to £1,000 per condition per year, up to a maximum of £4,000 a year.
I appreciate that Pinnacle provided the wrong information about the cover Ms P has, and it 
decided to pay the additional invoices that were submitted at that time as compensation for 
the error. My role is not to comment on that action as it forms part of the first complaint that 
Im not considering here.
My role here is to decide whether Pinnacle are liable to pay the outstanding amount of 
£510.64 that Ms P has submitted. I dont consider it to be responsible for paying anything 
further for the claim as this would exceed what cover Ms P is entitled to claim for. And on a 
fair and reasonable basis Ive considered that Ms P was already aware that Pinnacle had 
compensated her for the error, so I dont consider it needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman