DRN-1935899
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a Nationwide Building Society staff member accessed her account 
without reason.
What happened
Mrs S says she found out a Nationwide staff member accessed her account without reason 
as Mrs S doesn't use the branch in which that staff member works. She says she knows the 
staff member and this incident has caused her concern and complains about how 
Nationwide then dealt with the complaint.
Nationwide says it's carried out a full investigation into what took place and accepts a staff 
member accessed Mrs S's account information in April 2019 for about five seconds. But it 
says there is no evidence this action was inappropriate or that the information was shared. It 
also says that another staff member recalls a telephone call to the branch in which the caller 
asked to speak directly to the staff member Mrs S knows and believes this was an attempt to 
access the account.
Mrs S was unhappy with that response and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked at the complaint and upheld it. In summary her thought Nationwide hadn't explained 
why the account was accessed and couldn't provide Mrs S an assurance that this sort of 
incident wouldn't be repeated. He thought the only way Mrs S would have such reassurance 
would be for her to move her accounts and so recommended Nationwide pay £200 for the 
inconvenience of doing so. The investigator didn't think we could punish Nationwide for any 
data breach.
Nationwide doesn't accept that view and says Mrs S hasn't suffered any financial loss and 
says it believes someone called its staff member possibly as part of an ongoing dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint and issued a provisional view.
I said I didn't think it possible to be sure what had taken place here and why. I thought it 
likely there was an ongoing dispute between Mrs S and the Nationwide staff member based 
on what both sides have told me. But I didn't think Mrs S has suffered any financial loss and 
I could see that her account information was accessed for about five seconds and there 
doesn't appear to have been any other problems in the last year. I also agreed with the 
investigator that it's not our role to punish a business or tell it how it conducts an internal 
investigation such as it carried out here.
I appreciated that the investigator has concluded that the only way Mrs S could be sure that 
there would not be future problems was for her to move her accounts. I thought that was a 
reasonable conclusion to reach in the circumstances and I thought if Mrs S took a similar view then the fairest approach here would be for Nationwide to pay compensation for the 
inconvenience of such a move. I also agreed with the investigator that Nationwide couldn't 
explain the exact reason Mrs S's account was accessed and could only suggest what may 
have happened. I also thought that its staff member that recalled a telephone call to the staff 
member in question couldn't say what the date of that call was or if it was the call in which 
Mrs S's account was accessed. So for those reasons I agreed with the investigator that £200 
compensation would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the inconvenience of 
moving an account or accounts.
But I said I had not seen any evidence that Mrs S has closed her Nationwide accounts and I 
would have expected her to have closed the accounts as soon as she found out about the 
account access if she had any ongoing security concerns about her accounts. So it follows 
that I couldn't fairly order the recommended compensation for the inconvenience of closing 
an account or accounts when they have not been closed and moved. If there was evidence 
of the accounts being closed and moved then I said I would have awarded the 
recommended compensation. I also said that if Mrs S decides to open new accounts and 
provides evidence of that then I will of course consider that before issuing a final decision.
Mrs S has replied to my provisional view and says she will not be closing her accounts.
My findings
I have reconsidered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional view.
Mrs S has said that she doesn't wish to close her accounts and so in those circumstances I 
can't fairly award her compensation for the inconvenience of closing an account. I appreciate 
that Mrs S would have liked a further investigation into what took place but I hope she 
understands that is not our role.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman