DRN-3878279
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G have a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers their 
buildings and contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim in August 2017 after an escape of water which caused a small damp 
patch on their kitchen ceiling.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. But Id like to assure Mr G and Mrs G and UKI that Ive read the detailed 
evidence and information we have on file and I have taken all of that into account before 
issuing this decision.
In short, very serious mistakes were made by the contractors carrying out the repairs agreed 
in response to the claim. In early 2018, when working on the kitchen, they caused toxic 
cement dust to be spread throughout the house, making it temporarily uninhabitable.
A further leak was discovered later in 2018, which appears to have been the result of the 
work being carried out at the home.
Mr G and Mrs G made a complaint to UKI, which was then brought to our service. 
Essentially, there was a dispute about whether the claim had initially been cash settled  
with Mr G and Mrs G effectively then taking responsibility for the contractors  or not.
Our view was that UKI hadnt made clear to Mr G and Mrs G that they were effectively cash 
settling the claim. And that UKI still therefore bore responsibility for the actions of the 
appointed contractors.
We said UKI should get the agreed necessary repairs to the kitchen carried out, to restore 
things to pre-loss condition. And they should pay Mr G and Mrs G £300 in compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs (and/or their contractors) errors.
After that point, UKI continued with the repairs. They also dealt with a significant claim 
relating to the contents of the house, which had been covered in the toxic cement dust. They 
had to be removed into storage whilst decisions were made about whether they could be 
restored and items were listed and valued.
This was complicated further when UKI realised theyd taken no action to remove and store 
contents kept in the attic of the house  which were also affected by the dust.
Mr G and Mrs G and their family moved into alternative accommodation  at first, hotels and 
then a rented property, which they sourced themselves.
Mr G and Mrs G have made six complaints to UKI in the time since we resolved their first 
complaint in June 2019.
UKI provided final responses to those complaints in June 2019, August 2019, November 
2019, February 2020, September 2020 and September 2021.
Mr G and Mrs G brought the last of those complaints to our service in September 2021. Its 
broadly about UKIs handling of the claim in general, delays in decisions and payments, poor 
service, poor repair work, the effect of the events and the way the claim was handled on 
Mr G and Mrs G and their family, non-payment for increased utility bills whilst the repairs 
were being carried out, and the way the claim has been recorded on the Claims & 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
Our investigator looked into it and made his view known to both parties in June 2022. He 
said UKI had acted unfairly towards Mr G and Mrs G in their handling of the claim. He asked 
UKI to pay Mr G and Mrs G £4,000 in compensation for their trouble and upset. He said they 
should cover the increased utility bills if Mr G and Mrs G could provide evidence of them. 
And he said they should ensure the CUE records did not reflect the costs associated with the 
toxic cement dust.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. Theyve provided a list of their losses and the effects of the mis-handling of the 
claim and suggested much higher compensation (running into six figures) would be 
appropriate.
UKI also disagreed with the outcome. They said the contractor appointed in 2018 was 
responsible for much of the damage to the home. And that contractor was presented by 
Mr G and Mrs G and was therefore, in effect, Mr G and Mrs Gs contractor.
They also said the contractors insurer had accepted liability for the costs associated with the 
second escape of water. And they said the contractor who supplied the kitchen which proved 
to be faulty was, again, Mr G and Mrs Gs contractor.
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I took a different view 
about what UKI needed to do to put things right for Mr G and Mrs G. So, I issued a 
provisional decision. This allowed both Mr G and Mrs G and UKI a chance to provide further 
information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I made my final decision 
on this complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What time period and events I can look at when making this decision
Given the rather complex background to this complaint, Im first of all going to try to 
clear up one or two issues about the scope of our investigation into this particular 
complaint and the territory covered by this decision.
Mr G and Mrs G made a previous complaint to us which we resolved in June 2019. 
That complaint hinged on whether the claim had in fact been cash settled.
But its also clear from the final view we issued that wed considered very broadly the handling of the claim up to the date the complaint was made to us  in early 2019.
We specified what UKI needed to do from that point on to settle the claim fully and 
appropriately. And we awarded £300 compensation for Mr G and Mrs Gs trouble and 
upset.
Thats important because it sets the start date for the issues I can look at in this 
decision. I cant go back and second guess the earlier outcome by awarding 
additional compensation to Mr G and Mrs G for the period leading up to their first 
complaint being brought to us. So, any compensation I might award is for the period 
that starts in early 2019.
Its also important to put an end date on that period. Mr G and Mrs G made this 
current complaint to us in September 2021. UKIs final response to that complaint 
had been issued in that same month.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution (or DISP) rules set out 
how our service operates. Our powers derive from those rules and we cant deviate 
from them when we consider complaints from our customers.
Those rules say that we cant look into complaints which the relevant business hasnt 
had a chance to consider and resolve themselves. Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint to 
UKI and to us covers events up to September 2021. By definition, that complaint 
cant have raised issues which arose after that point in time.
So, I can only consider events up to September 2021 in making this decision. 
Anything after that which Mr G and Mrs G might want to complain about will have to 
be raised as a new and separate complaint. And UKI must be given a chance to 
resolve that complaint before it comes to us.
In summary, this decision  and any compensation it requires UKI to pay to Mr G and 
Mrs G  will cover the period between early 2019 and September 2021.
Im also constrained in what specific events and issues I can look at within that 
particular time frame because Mr G and Mrs G made several further complaints to 
UKI in that period. Once Mr G and Mrs G had UKIs final responses to those 
complaints, they had six months to refer those matters to our service.
Again, this is set out in the FCAs DISP rules. Unless there are exceptional 
circumstances which explain why a customer was unable to complain at the relevant 
time, we cant consider any complaint brought to us more than six months after the 
businesss final response to the customer.
I know Mr G and Mrs G believe they were advised by someone at our service to 
make a single complaint to us once the claim was closed, rather than make a large 
number of complaints as the claim progressed.
And this, they say, meant they complained to UKI several times but then didnt bring 
their complaints to us until September 2021 when they were ready to bring the whole 
thing to our attention.
I suspect there may have been crossed wires in the conversation Mrs G says she 
had with our member of staff. Depending on the circumstances, it is practical and 
sensible advice  on occasion  for customers in this kind of situation, where there is 
an on-going claim, to complain once and cover everything, rather than try to hit a moving target and complain multiple times as the claim progresses.
Its certainly not helpful to anyone for complaints to be made every month or so 
during a claim with the recurring issue being the on-going delays in the claim being 
finally settled.
I suspect what our member of staff intended was that Mr G and Mrs G make one 
complaint at the end of the claim  or close to it  to UKI, and then bring that to us if 
they werent satisfied with the outcome.
UKIs final response letters all included a statement that complaints could be referred 
to us if Mr G and Mrs G werent satisfied with the outcome, but that theyd have only 
six months to do so, starting from the date of the letter.
So, I cant conclude that Mr G and Mrs G would have been in any doubt about the 
time limits on making a complaint to us.
And in any case, however the supposed confusion occurred, it doesnt alter the fact 
that the rules apply here - and the rules say a complaint must be brought to us within 
six months. We cant choose to ignore those rules whatever the underlying 
circumstances.
As it happens, in my view this limitation doesnt have too great an impact on this case 
 and this decision  when alls said and done. Thats because each of the five 
complaints made between the first one (which was brought to us) and the last one 
(the one Im considering now) were reasonably specific.
They were about: the wording of a clause in the policy about items in storage; the 
time taken to deal with a query about towels and linens; UKIs refusal to pay for 
restaurant Xmas and New Year lunches for the family whilst they were in alternative 
accommodation; damage to some furniture being moved from storage to the house; 
and the policy limits and how they were set out in the policy documents.
Its not for me to say whether wed have upheld all or any of these complaints had 
they been brought to us within six months. But I can say that if wed done so, any 
compensation would have been relatively small compared to whats at stake in the 
complaint I am now considering.
UKIs response to our investigators view
UKIs response to our investigators view is somewhat unclear, to me at least.
They appear to say that the contractors involved in the repairs (including the 
contractor who caused the issue with the toxic cement dust) were sourced and 
presented by Mr G and Mrs G. The implication being that Mr G and Mrs G bear the 
responsibility for what went wrong in the work carried out by those contractors.
I say this is unclear because that was one of the main issues resolved in the previous 
complaint we looked into. We said the claim wasnt in effect cash settled and the 
contractors  whether found and/or initially contacted by Mr G and Mrs G or not  
were carrying out the repairs on behalf of UKI.
If UKI had disagreed with that outcome, they could  and should  have asked for a 
final decision on that case. Instead, they accepted the outcome at the time. And they 
shouldnt now be effectively asking to go back and reverse that outcome (not that we could do that anyway under the DISP rules).
UKI have also drawn our attention to the fact that the contractor has insurance  and 
that provides a route for the contractor to pay for the damage to Mr G and Mrs Gs 
home and compensate them for the effects of that damage.
Whilst that may be true, it would be for UKI to pursue that with the contractors, who  
as set out above  were working for and on behalf of UKI.
In essence, UKI should provide any redress for the contractors errors to Mr G and 
Mrs G  and then seek to recover that from the contractors and/or their insurers if 
they consider that appropriate.
If Ive misunderstood the points UKI made in response to our investigators view, then 
they have the opportunity to explain their position in response to this provisional 
decision.
Did UKI treat Mr G and Mrs G fairly and reasonably?
I dont think UKI have treated Mr G and Mrs G fairly and reasonably  and thats why 
Im minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr G and Mrs G have provided a very substantial amount of very detailed information 
about what they believe went wrong and when. I trust theyll forgive me if I dont 
cover every single issue in the same detail here. Ill try to summarise the main points 
below.
UKI accepted Mr G and Mrs Gs original claim. Repairs were commissioned which  
as per our previous complaint outcome  were UKIs responsibility.
The contractors appointed made a mistake which caused toxic dust to be spread 
around the home. That error meant that Mr G and Mrs G were severely 
inconvenienced and were out of their home for a prolonged period.
It also appears from the information we currently have on file that UKI tested the 
cement dust to establish whether it was toxic, got the results showing that it was, but 
didnt then immediately share that information with Mr G and Mrs G.
Thats not just poor service, it increased the risk of Mr G and Mrs G and their family 
inadvertently being exposed to the toxic dust.
During the period in question, I can also see from the evidence we have that there 
were avoidable delays in handling the claim and the repairs. There was, at times, 
poor communication with Mr G and Mrs G and there were failures to answer their 
questions and queries.
It would be reasonable to characterise UKIs attitude to the claim at times as very 
laissez faire. Mr G and Mrs G were often asked to do the leg work in terms of finding 
contractors and identifying work that needed to be done. This was inconvenient and 
time-consuming for Mr G and Mrs G.
There also appear to have been several avoidable hitches, false starts and errors 
with the on-going repairs. The kitchen repairs appear to have been re-started several 
times. And there were further escapes of water caused by failed repairs and/or poor 
work.Again, this prolonged the time taken to make effective repairs, prolonged the time 
Mr G and Mrs G couldnt live in their home and led to greater inconvenience and 
stress for Mr G and Mrs G.
Any buildings insurance claim is likely to lead to a degree of stress and 
inconvenience. But, in summary, UKIs (and/or their contractors) errors made what 
began as a reasonably simple claim related to a relatively minor escape of water into 
a saga stretching over several years - with a family displaced from their home and 
often left to feel that they were unsupported by UKI in trying to bring things to a timely 
and satisfactory conclusion.
Im aware that Mr G and Mrs G have suggested that we obtain further evidence from 
UKI about their handling of the claim. In particular, they want UKI to provide  and us 
to take into account  recordings of several phone calls during the course of these 
events. Mr G and Mrs G believe these may show the full extent of UKIs failings in 
handling the claim.
Im not inclined to do that at present. We have sufficient evidence already to show 
that there were serious failings in the handling of the claim.
We provide a quick and informal service as an alternative to the courts. Its not our 
role to forensically pin down the exact nature and timing of discussions between the 
parties, or to try to comprehensively catalogue every action taken or word spoken 
which may have been in error. At least, not unless doing so would make a material 
difference in the case.
In short, I can see from the evidence we have in hand that there were serious and 
prolonged errors in the handling of the claim and its aftermath.
Thats the basis on which Im upholding the complaint. And the basis on which Im 
calculating the compensation to be paid to Mr G and Mrs G  which Ill come to 
further below. I dont need more evidence to show that UKI have failed Mr G and Mrs 
G or to what extent theyve done so.
The claim records on CUE
Our investigators view was that UKI should amend any external claims database to 
show only the claim(s) related to escapes of water  and the cost of repairs related to 
any such claim(s).
In principle, I agree with that view. Mr G and Mrs G shouldnt be penalised in future 
with higher insurance premiums because of errors made by UKIs contractors and 
the repairs which had to be carried out to put them right.
Mr G and Mrs G say that there was only one escape of water claim  the original one 
in August 2017. And any and all further damage to their home has been caused by 
errors and/or poor workmanship on the part of UKIs contractors.
On the face of it, given the evidence currently available, Im inclined to agree with 
that. In response to this provisional decision, UKI have a chance to provide any 
evidence or information they have to show that any of the later escapes of water or 
other incidents leading to damage were independent of the work already being 
carried out in response to the first claim and/or in response to errors made during the 
repairs for that claim.If there is no such evidence, Im inclined at present to require UKI to remove from 
any records or database (internal or external) any claim record other than the original 
August 2017 claim and any costs relating to anything other than that first claim.
To be clear, Im not suggesting that UKI cant keep internal records relating to these 
events as a whole.
I am suggesting that if they do keep such records they are absolutely clear that there 
was only one claim here  and that any costs beyond those relating to the original 
minor leak are not claim-related. They are in effect, related to UKI putting right 
damage that their contractors had caused.
The utility bills
Mr G and Mrs G say theyve paid utility costs for periods when they werent in the 
house and/or for utilities used by the contractor(s) when carrying out repairs.
I entirely agree with our investigator on this point. UKI should cover those costs if and 
when Mr G and Mrs G can provide evidence of their increased utility bills.
Alleged losses due to UKIs (or the contractors) errors Mr G and Mrs G arent happy 
with the amount of compensation our investigator asked UKI to pay in this case. They 
believe the £4,000 our investigator suggested is entirely inadequate and, as Ive said, 
they asked for a sum in six figures.
Its important to draw a distinction here between compensation for trouble and upset 
(which Ill come to in more detail below) and actual financial or other losses which 
Mr G and Mrs G say are a direct consequence of UKIs failings in their handling of 
the claim.
We can award compensation for trouble and upset. The FCA rules say this must 
relate to a customer experiencing distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering or 
damage to their reputation. Mr G and Mrs G say they  and their family  have 
experienced distress, inconvenience and pain and suffering. As I say, Ill turn to that 
below.
Mr G and Mrs G also say theyve suffered financial losses (over and above the direct 
losses associated with the claim  i.e. the damage to the building and contents - 
which UKI have paid for) as a result of UKIs errors in the handling of their claim. 
Thats a separate issue to compensation for trouble and upset.
They say Mrs G had to give up work as a result of UKIs mis-handling of the claim. 
They say she also lost a small business  again, as a result of UKIs (and/or their 
contractors) errors.
And they say they had to cash in investments and savings to pay alternative 
accommodation costs which UKI did not pay promptly. Ill deal with these in turn 
below.
Mrs Gs work and career
In making their complaint to us, Mr G and Mrs G said that Mrs G had to give up work 
in the health service because dealing with the claim and the aftermath took up so 
much of her time. In essence, they said this was necessary and inevitable given that 
Mrs G, in the absence of any meaningful progress and support from UKI, had to project manage the repairs herself.
They said this meant shed lost earnings, pension contributions and career 
prospects. And that added up to a very significant financial impact.
Im sure Mr G and Mrs G will understand that if we were to make an award for these 
alleged losses, wed need two things. One, very good reason to believe that Mrs G 
giving up work was caused by UKIs errors in handling the claim. And two, evidence 
to show what exactly the losses amounted to.
Mr G and Mrs G have provided a P60 to show that Mrs G earned just over £16,000 
(after tax) in the financial year 2021/22. It might be more pertinent to have P60s (or 
other evidence) from the years preceding the claim, so Id ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
provide those in response to this provisional decision, if they have them.
The P60 weve been given is also issued by a specific employer. Id be grateful if 
Mr G and Mrs G could also clarify whether Mrs G did agency work in 2021/22, as 
shes told us she was doing before the claim was made, or whether she was working 
full or part time for a particular employer.
Leaving aside the evidence required to allow a calculation of Mrs Gs lost earnings, 
Im also not convinced at present that UKIs errors in handling the claim  which led 
to the on-going complications after the toxic dust was released etc.  could be held to 
be a sole or major cause of Mrs Gs decision not to seek agency (or other) work.
Insurance claims of this nature can be complex. And dealing with them can be time-
consuming and inconvenient for the policyholder (and Ill deal with that below when I 
come to the award for trouble and upset). But I think it would be the rare and very 
exceptional case where that could be demonstrated to have directly caused the 
customer to have to give up work.
In this case, if Mrs G felt the repair project wasnt being handled well, there were a 
number of other options she might have explored before giving up work to do it 
herself.
Furthermore, UKI cannot conceivably have expected that their handling of this claim 
and/ or their errors would lead to Mrs G giving up her job. And it would be unfair to 
ask them to pay out for that when they had no idea that was at stake when they 
handled the claim.
Mr G and Mrs G have an opportunity to comment on my thinking in response to this 
provisional decision, but as things stand, Im not minded to hold UKI responsible for 
Mrs Gs decision not to seek agency work (or any other work) after the claim was 
made and/or the errors were made by UKIs contractors.
Mrs Gs small business.
Mrs G says she ran a small business which she lost due to UKIs errors in handling 
her claim. She says that small business made around £15,000 per year.
Again, if we were to make an award for these losses, wed need evidence to 
substantiate the size of the loss and credible reasons for believing the errors made 
by UKI were a sole or major cause of the business being lost.
We have no evidence of the financial loss Mrs G claims here. Mrs G says all the papers and records relating to the business were lost when the house was cleared 
after the toxic cement dust incident.
Weve asked for tax returns  which would presumably be available electronically. If 
Mr G and Mrs G have tax returns or other concrete evidence of the businesss 
earnings, Im sure they will provide them in response to this provisional decision.
Even if we were to get that proof of the businesss earnings, Im again not convinced 
that UKIs handling of the claim or their and/or their contractors errors could 
reasonably be seen to be the cause of the demise of the business.
Im assuming the business didnt use Mr G and Mrs Gs home. If it did, Id expect 
Mr G and Mrs Gs home insurance to reflect that. What is certain, in my view, is that 
UKI cant possibly have known that a business earning that amount per year might 
be at stake when they offered insurance, or when they handled the claim and the 
aftermath of the toxic dust incident.
Again, Mr G and Mrs G now have an opportunity to comment on my thinking in 
response to this provisional decision. At present, and in the absence of any further 
information or evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that the errors UKI and/or their 
contractors made were the cause of Mrs G losing her small business. Theres no 
evidence or rationale to justify making that causal connection as things stand.
Interest on late payments
Mr G and Mrs G say they also lost out financially because UKI unnecessarily delayed 
making payments to them when settling their contents claim and when covering 
alternative accommodation costs.
They say they had to withdraw money from savings and investments to cover those 
payments until UKI finally paid out.
Theres been a lot of discussion between Mr G and Mrs G and UKI  and us  about 
the time it took to settle the contents claim relating to items which were affected by 
the toxic dust.
As I understand it, the claim has now been settled with an agreed cash amount being 
paid. I also understand Mr G and Mrs G believe there are still one or two loose ends 
still to be tied up around the contents claim.
From what I can see, those final remaining issues have arisen long after Mr G and 
Mrs G brought their complaint to us.
That being the case  and for the reasons Ive already explained above  Mr G and 
Mrs G will need to make a new complaint to UKI about those matters if they wish to 
do so. We can then consider that complaint if Mr G and Mrs G arent satisfied with 
UKIs response.
Mr G and Mrs G have asked us to consider requiring UKI to pay interest on the late 
payments. I believe that might be justified for some of those payments  Ill explain 
why.
We take the view that interest  at 8% simple per annum  is justified in cases where 
a businesss error has led to the customer being deprived of money for a period of 
time.There has been a detailed debate about whether the contents claim might have been 
settled earlier. I think its arguable it could have been, but it was a very complex and 
unusual claim and set of circumstances.
In brief, I think UKI might have decided much earlier - and on the advice of the 
recovery expert they commissioned  that none of the contents of Mr G and Mrs Gs 
attic were in fact recoverable.
Im not quite so convinced that valuing those contents could have been done much 
sooner than it was. There were a very large number of items and the replacement 
cost of each had to be validated  sometimes with great difficulty and only with input 
from Mr G and Mrs G, if the claim was to be settled fairly.
Overall, there may have been some delay  and Ill take that into account when I 
consider the trouble and upset Mr G and Mrs G experienced  but the claim has 
been settled in a way thats acceptable to both parties, which took some negotiation. 
And in those negotiations, both parties were entitled to feel that there werent obliged 
to concede their points simply to speed things up.
In any case, as I say, we would only consider adding interest for those payments if 
Mr G and Mrs G had been deprived of money which they could have used for other 
things.
In this case, as regards the contents settlement at least, they havent been deprived 
of money theyd otherwise have been able to use. Theyve been unable to replace 
items which were stored in their attic (and presumably therefore not vital to their 
everyday life).
I take a different view on the payments relating to alternative accommodation. Mr G 
and Mrs G have provided evidence that they had to withdraw money from savings 
and/or investments to pay for alternative accommodation. They say they then had to 
wait for considerable periods of time before UKI made payments to them to cover 
those costs.
Mr G and Mrs G shouldnt have been put in that position. And they were deprived of 
that money from the point in time they paid it out until they were paid by UKI.
So, Im minded to require UKI to pay 8% simple interest on each alternative 
accommodation payment they made to Mr G and Mrs G, calculated from the date the 
bill was paid by Mr G and Mrs G (which will be clear from the invoices UKI will have 
on file) to the date UKI made the payment to Mr G and Mrs G.
If UKI have any objection to this and/or further information or evidence which they 
want me to consider, no doubt theyll make that clear in response to this provisional 
decision.
Compensation for trouble and upset
As Ive explained above, we can award compensation for trouble and upset where a 
customer has experienced distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering or damage to 
their reputation.
Mr G and Mrs G have undoubtedly experienced fairly significant inconvenience as a 
result of UKIs errors. In particular, the contractors error with the toxic cement dust 
meant the period of time during which Mr G and Mrs G were out of their home and/or had substantial work going on at their home was extended by a number of years.
Its not just about that though. I can see form the evidence we have on file that Mr G 
and Mrs G have struggled to get UKI to engage with their questions, queries or 
comments.
The on-going work appears to have multiplied exponentially over time as further 
errors were made.
Theres been a lack of clarity in communications from UKI. And there have been 
significant delays which appear to have been entirely avoidable.
Mr G and Mrs G have been inconvenienced throughout the period in question 
because theyve had to chase UKI for responses and/or progress and theyve had to 
carry out some tasks themselves which they might have expected would normally be 
carried out by UKI or their agents.
Ive no doubt that has been a very stressful experience for Mr G and Mrs G too. Their 
family life has been disrupted at times as a direct result of the errors made in the 
repairs being carried out at their property.
And theyve had to live in temporary accommodation which  although they sourced 
it themselves  was not as convenient for work, studies or leisure as their own home 
would have been.
Mr G and Mrs G say their health  and their family members health  has been 
affected, particularly by the toxic cement dust. I have no reason to doubt this. The 
dust is toxic, after all  and the family were exposed to it, albeit UKI provided 
alterative accommodation.
As Ive said, it appears UKI didnt let Mr G and Mrs G know immediately they had the 
results of the toxicology tests on the dust. The family were exposed to it immediately 
after the incident. And there have been occasions where UKI asked Mrs G and/or 
other family members to inspect the stored contents which were still contaminated.
I dont have any medical records to show the full extent of any health problems the 
family have experienced. But we do have third party evidence to affirm that members 
of the family did experience a significant reaction to the dust on occasion.
So, to summarise, as a result of UKIs (or their contractors) errors in handling the 
initial claim, Mr G and Mrs G have experienced significant inconvenience, significant 
worry and distress and significant pain and suffering.
Our investigator thought £4,000 was sufficient compensation for Mr G and Mrs Gs 
trouble and upset. Whilst thats not a wildly inaccurate assessment, Im minded to 
increase the amount to £5,000.
Our website contains guidance on the amounts of compensation for trouble and 
upset were likely to award in different cases. We say an award between £1,500 and 
£5,000 is appropriate where a businesss mistake(s) cause sustained distress, 
potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to daily life typically 
lasting more than a year.
Its my provisional view that the trouble and upset Mr G and Mrs G experienced in 
this case is at the very top end of that bracket, but I cant see any exceptional reason to go beyond it at present.
As I made clear above, this award covers the period between early 2019 and 
September 2021.
And for those reasons I said I was minded to uphold the complaint and require UKI to take 
the actions specified in my provisional decision above.
The responses to my provisional decision
UKI responded to my provisional decision simply to say they accepted it.
Mr G and Mrs G provided a lengthy response. Ill summarise what they said below. Mr G and 
Mrs G will no doubt understand if I dont attempt to repeat all of the detail or set it out 
verbatim. Ill number the points theyve made for ease of reference when I set out the 
reasons for my final decision below.
1. The original complaint to our service, concluded in June 2019, was only ever about 
the issues with the kitchen. And so, the compensation awarded did not reflect the 
wider issues in the case  particularly, the fact that their whole house was made 
uninhabitable due to UKIs contractors errors. Therefore, its unfair to say we can 
only consider events after June 2019 in this case and this decision. 
2. Mr G and Mrs G were advised  after the original case was concluded in June 2019 - 
to make a single further complaint to us once the whole business was concluded with 
UKI. Therefore, its unfair to say that we cant now look into the issues raised in their 
subsequent complaints to UKI on the basis they werent brought to us within six 
months of UKIs final responses.
3. Mr G and Mrs G accept that this case  and this decision  covers events up to 
September 2021. They reserve the right to make a further complaint (or complaints) 
about UKIs handling of these matters after that date.
4. This case is exceptional because UKIs contractors caused the damage to Mr G and 
Mrs Gs home. And UKI have clearly gone against obligations set out for insurers by 
the Financial Conduct Authority in the way theyve handled the claim and subsequent 
repair works.
5. UKIs line on this complaint  that Mr G and Mrs G should seek redress through the 
contractor and their insurers  shows that UKI accept that Mr G and Mrs G should be 
compensated for their losses. And when UKI contacted Mr G and Mrs G to seek their 
help in pursuing the contractor and their insurer, they (UKI) said theyd seek 
compensation for Mrs Gs lost salary and pension contributions.
6. UKI certainly didnt treat Mr G and Mrs G fairly  and their failure to disclose 
information about the toxicity of the dust was particularly unfair and unreasonable.
7. My provisional decision didnt do justice to the amount of work Mrs G had to do  as 
Mr G was working long hours at the relevant times  to arrange and organise the 
repairs to the house and to deal with the other matters surrounding the claim and the 
complaints. Nor did it reflect the fact that she asked UKI for assistance on a number 
of occasions.8. UKI still havent paid for all Mr G and Mrs Gs lost possessions. The losses were 
preventable. And the settlement payments dont reflect the sentimental value of some 
of those items.
9. Mrs G had a contract with an NHS Trust which allowed her to dictate her own 
working hours. She never worked for an agency. And she no choice but to stop 
taking any work hours due to the impact of the claim and the repair work. UKI told her 
to manage the repair work, which was a large scale project.
10. Mrs Gs P60s were lost due to the toxic dust incident. 
11. Mrs Gs small business had a turnover of £8,000-15,000 per year (not a profit of that 
amount). All the stock was contaminated by the toxic dust. Mrs G couldnt keep stock 
elsewhere (in the alternative accommodation, for example) and, in any case, it took 
two years or so for UKI to validate and pay for the lost stock. 
12. The validation process for the lost items took so long (two to three years) that Mr G 
and Mrs G had to replace the lost items before they received any payment from UKI. 
Therefore, they were deprived of their own money for a period of time. And therefore, 
they should get interest at 8% simple on those (delayed) payments. This would be 
from the date of the incident (February 2018) to October 2020 (when payment was 
made) for the attic contents and to April 2021 (when payment was made) for the 
other house contents.
13. UKI knew the various items werent able to be salvaged in June 2018 (as per the 
statement form the loss adjuster). Validation should have started then, not two to 
three years later. 
14. When Mrs G was finally asked to go through her lost items, it took her three or four 
months to do so, not two to three years. The attic contents took her four weeks. And 
the garage contents also took a matter of weeks. 
15.  Mr G and Mrs G accepted the overall settlement offered for their contents. But that 
doesnt mean they found it acceptable (their words, not mine) or appropriate. They 
had no real choice but to accept the offer - and they were never reimbursed fully. 
They were offered £30,000 less for the attic items than they should have been 
offered  at least in part because UKI moved those items to storage in Glasgow.
16. Insurers are under a legal obligation (Insurance Act 2015, as amended) to pay claims 
promptly. And, if they dont, policyholders have a right to claim damages.
17. UKI were persistently trying to overturn our ruling on the original complaint (resolved 
in June 2019) by suggesting Mr G and Mrs G should pursue the contractors (and 
their insurers) for recovery of their losses.
18. UKIs poor communication (or complete lack of communication at times) is contrary 
to the FCAs guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr G and Mrs G for their comments on my provisional decision. Their 
clarification on some points is helpful. However, having considered their comments very carefully and taken them fully into account, Im not going to change my mind about the 
outcome of the case. Ill explain why, by reference to the points Mr G and Mrs G made in 
their response to my provisional decision.
Re: Mr G and Mrs Gs point 1 above
The original complaint was about what happened after Mr G and Mrs G made their claim 
relating to the water leak in their kitchen. The crux of the matter was that UKI said the 
contractor was responsible for the problems theyd caused. Our view was that UKI were 
wrong and had to take responsibility for what had happened.
We also awarded compensation for Mr G and Mrs Gs trouble and upset. That was primarily 
relating to the delays and inconvenience caused by UKIs stance on the errors with the 
repairs to the kitchen. 
However, its not unreasonable to believe that Mr G and Mrs G were complaining to us at the 
time about  essentially  all of things they wanted to complain about at that time. 
And, to cut to the point, my provisional decision made it clear that I was considering all of the 
stress and inconvenience caused for Mr G and Mrs G (after June 2019) by the contractors 
errors leading to their displacement from their home and the contamination of their homes 
contents.
I appreciate that it is a rather technical issue how far I can go back in considering the impact 
on Mr G and Mrs G. And I appreciate that Mr G and Mrs G disagree with my position. But 
rather than get into a very legalistic debate about the appropriate scope of the investigation, I 
would simply say that  as my provisional decision made clear  Im entirely satisfied that 
Mr G and Mr G suffered sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or 
severe disruption to daily life typically lasting more than a year. 
In essence, whether I move the start date of the period Im considering back by several 
months is neither here nor there in the broader scheme of things. Im satisfied that the 
position set out in my provisional decision is correct  legally and morally. 
But even if it werent and we extend the time period back to the time of the relevant events, 
that wouldnt alter my view about the degree of Mr G and Mrs Gs trouble and upset  which 
was very significant and prolonged  or the amount of compensation they should be 
awarded in this case.
Re: point 2 above
I made my position clear in my provisional decision and theres not much I can add to that. 
The rules that govern our service are what they are. And, whatever Mrs G believes she was 
told by my former colleague, the final response letters from UKI made it absolutely clear that 
Mr G and Mrs G had six months from the date of those letters to refer the matter to us if they 
were dissatisfied with UKIs response.
As I also said in my provisional decision, the various complaints Mr G and Mrs G made to 
UKI but then didnt bring to us within six months of the final response, were very specific and 
limited. If I could bring those matters into my considerations  which I cant  they would not 
alter my view about the outcome of this case as a whole.
Re: point 3 above
Mr G and Mrs G are entitled to make a further complaint (or complaints) about UKIs actions (or inactions) after September 2021. Thats clear to all parties and I neednt respond to this 
point any further here.
Re: point 4 above
I agree with Mr G and Mrs G that UKI have not acted as they should have done in this case. 
Thats why Im upholding the complaint. Mr G and Mrs G are also right in saying that the 
case isnt straightforwardly about the handling of a claim  its about damage caused by 
UKIs contractors whilst they were carrying out repairs on UKIs behalf. I can assure Mr G 
and Mrs G that Ive had that in mind throughout my consideration of this case.
Re: point 5 above
UKI have accepted my provisional decision. Theyve also paid for repairs to Mr G and 
Mrs Gs property and paid out on their contents claims. So, Mr G and Mrs G are right that 
UKI have accepted that they should be compensated for their losses. That appears to me to 
be straightforwardly uncontroversial.
Mr G and Mrs G tell us that when UKI contacted them about pursuing the contractor (and 
their insurer) to recover their (UKIs) losses, UKI told them that theyd be seeking 
compensation for Mrs Gs loss of earning and pension contributions. 
On balance, I think that must have been a misunderstanding. Its easy to see how such a 
misunderstanding may have arisen if UKI were trying to say that if they were to pay out for 
Mrs Gs losses (whatever they were), then theyd pursuing all of those losses with the 
contractors insurer. 
And even if UKIs agent had erroneously given Mrs G that impression, I wouldnt be 
suggesting that meant UKI should now pay for those particular (claimed) losses. If an 
insurers agent were to give a commitment in error, that is an inconvenience and/or causes 
trouble and upset, but it doesnt mean the insurer is then obliged to do something which was 
never justified or appropriate.
Re: point 6 above
I agree that UKI havent treated Mr G and Mrs G fairly. And that the failure to notify them 
about the toxicity of the dust as soon as practicable was particularly unfair and 
unreasonable. 
I dont think theres anything to add here. My provisional decision properly reflects my view 
on those matters  with which Mr G and Mrs G agree. And all of that was fully and 
appropriately taken into account when I set out my proposed outcome to this case.
Re: point 7 above
I understand the degree of inconvenience and stress caused to Mr G and Mrs G by these 
events. Again, as I said in my provisional decision, I fully acknowledge that the disruption 
caused was severe and that the distress they felt was sustained. That is properly reflected in 
the proposed outcome set out in my provisional decision.
Re: point 8 above
I understand that some of the lost items had sentimental value. There is nothing UKI could 
conceivably do to replace the sentimental value. All they can reasonably be expected to do 
is replace the items.I understand Mr G and Mrs G may still be in discussion with UKI about some of their lost 
items. If they are unhappy with the outcome of those discussions, they would be entitled to 
make another complaint. That said, I am aware that  after some prolonged negotiations  
Mr G and Mrs G accepted a settlement offer from UKI relating to their lost contents (Ill return 
to this point in more detail below).
Re: point 9 above
Im grateful to Mrs G for clarifying the position as regards her employment contract. Im 
afraid I still have no persuasive evidence or information to suggest that UKIs failings in 
handling the repair work at the property inevitably or primarily led to Mrs G giving up work for 
the relevant period.
Re: Point 10 above
I appreciate that documents (including P60s) may have been lost when the house was 
contaminated. However, it is not unreasonable to suggest that Mrs G could and should be 
able to establish what her earnings were in the years preceding these events. 
Im not persuaded that this ultimately matters, because, as Ive already said, Im satisfied 
theres no definitive causal link between UKIs errors and Mrs G giving up work (see above), 
but I did invite Mr G and Mrs G to provide proof of her earnings in the time before these 
events. And they havent provided any proof, evidence or compelling information about Mrs 
Gs earnings.
Re: point 11 above
Im grateful to Mrs G for clarifying the financial position as regards her small business. I 
understand why Mrs G felt she couldnt carry on with that business when she moved out of 
her house.
Mr G and Mrs G had home insurance with UKI. They did not have business insurance or 
business continuity insurance. In other words, UKI would have had no idea they were 
insuring a business  and might be responsible for business losses - when they took Mr G 
and Mrs Gs custom.
In that context, it would be fundamentally unfair and unreasonable to suggest that UKI 
should now cover the small business losses Mrs G claims.
Again, I dont think it matters in the final analysis (for the reasons set out immediately 
above), but I did suggest in my provisional decision that Mr G and Mrs G should provide 
evidence of those alleged losses. And again, they havent provided any such evidence, 
despite the fact that it would  or certainly should  be readily available.
Re: points 12, 13 and 14 above
Mr G and Mrs G say that validation of their contents claims could have begun much earlier 
and been finalised much earlier  which would have meant they received their settlement 
payment much earlier.
I dont propose to repeat what I said in my provisional decision, but suffice to say that, whilst 
I take some of the points Mr G and Mrs G have now made, I remain of the view that there 
were indeed some avoidable delays in settling the claim, but not enough to justify the 
interest payment that Mr G and Mrs G want. This was an extraordinarily complex claim, as it turned out - and an unusual if not unique set 
of circumstances. The decision to write off all of the contents could have been made earlier, 
in my view. But the number of items and the nature of them made valuation very difficult. 
And, as I said in my provisional decision, both parties were entitled to negotiate about the 
final settlement figure.
As I also said in my provisional decision, Ive taken the avoidable delays in this process  the 
ones which were clearly UKIs fault  into account when deciding on the amount of 
compensation to be awarded to Mr G and Mrs G.
Re: point 15 above
Mr G and Mrs G say they accepted a settlement offer which wasnt acceptable. Leaving 
aside any trite pedantic point, I can understand what they mean. Theyre essentially saying 
the offer was accepted under duress and with no choice.
Im afraid I dont accept that. There had been prolonged negotiations and a number of 
previous offers, none of which Mr G and Mrs G had accepted. 
Looking at the correspondence, I dont believe Mr G and Mrs G could or would have been 
pushed into accepting an offer that was contrary to their own interests. As they also admit 
themselves, they were fortunate enough to be able to replace their lost items if they wished  
albeit that would be inconvenient and frustrating. So, they werent forced into accepting a 
settlement because they were deprived of some essentials (or non-essentials for that matter) 
whilst they waited for the settlement payment to come through.
Mr G and Mrs G also say theyve lost £30,000 on the value of the items in their attic. I dont 
see any evidence of that at present. If there is compelling evidence, no doubt Mr G and 
Mrs G will provide that to UKI. And if they do, wed expect UKI to consider it and look again 
at the settlement paid to Mr G and Mrs G.
In short, Mr G and Mrs G accepted a settlement offer from UKI to conclude a process that 
was both difficult and contentious. In the absence of any compelling reason to believe that 
Mr G and Mrs G were in some way forced to accept that agreement, or misled by UKI, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to retrospectively interfere with that agreement now.
Re: point 16 above
I agree that insurers have an obligation to settle claims promptly. As Ive already said, any 
avoidable delays in this case, which were UKIs fault, have been factored into my decision 
about the outcome of the case  which is to uphold the complaint  and into my award of 
compensation for Mr G and Mrs Gs trouble and upset.
Re: point 17 above
I agree that UKI appeared at times  including in response to our investigators view on this 
case  to be forgetting the outcome of the original complaint made to us and resolved in 
June 2019. Ive taken that fully into account in this decision.
Re: point 18 above
I agree that, at times, UKIs communications with Mr G and Mrs G fell short of the standard 
to be expected. My view on that is fully reflected in my provisional decision. And its also 
reflected in my proposed outcome to this case. Summary
In conclusion, I fully accept that Mr G and Mrs G have been caused sustained distress and 
severe disruption to daily life over a prolonged period as a direct result of UKIs errors in the 
handling of these matters.
Mr G and Mrs G have my sympathy over what happened to them after they first made the 
claim relating to a small leak in their kitchen in 2017. 
UKIs failure to deal effectively with the claim and the subsequent damage caused by their 
contractors was profound  and added unnecessarily and avoidably to Mr G and Mrs Gs 
trouble and upset.
The things Im going to require UKI to do to put things right reflect that. And the 
compensation Im awarding for Mr G and Mrs Gs trouble and upset is appropriate and in line 
with the awards our service makes, as set out on our website.  
Putting things right
I havent changed my mind about what UKI need to so to put things right for Mr G and 
Mrs G.
The actions Im going to require UKI to take were set out in my provisional decision and are 
repeated below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint.
U K Insurance Limited must:
Ensure that all claim records on internal or external systems reflect the fact that there 
is only one claim made by Mr G and Mrs G since August 2017.
Pay Mr G and Mrs G 8% simple interest on all alternative accommodation payments 
made in connection with this claim, calculated from the date Mr G and Mrs G made 
each payment to the date UKI reimbursed them.
On receipt of relevant evidence from Mr G and Mrs G, reimburse them for their 
increased utility bills in the period that the repairs were being carried out.
Pay Mr G and Mrs G £5,000 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman