DRN-3286300
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have breached their duty of care to him causing him to 
lose around £350,000 to what he says was a scam investment company. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Mr P made a series of payments totalling around £350,000 to a business Ill refer to 
as R. At the time Mr P believed the payments were to fund an investment although he now 
believes that R were operating a scam. The payments were primarily made using his Lloyds 
Visa debit card but there were also payments sent via bank transfers. 
In late May 2020 Mr P sadly had a medical emergency and was admitted to hospital. Mr P 
says that on 25 May 2020 a family member spoke to R and told them of his situation, they 
asked that all his trades be closed and for his investment to be returned to him. He says R 
didnt follow this instruction. Then on 27 May 2020 R emailed to say that he needed to add 
more funds to meet the margin requirements in relation to his open trades otherwise he was 
at risk of being stopped out. Mr P himself emailed R on 28 May 2020 asking that his trades 
all be closed, and his funds returned to his bank account. In June 2020 about £55,000 was 
paid into Mr Ps Lloyds account by R. 
Mr P complained to Lloyds. In essence he feels they ought to have stopped him from making 
the payments to R. He believes Lloyds knowingly allowed him to invest with a fraudulent 
business. He also thinks Lloyds failed to assist him recover his loss through the chargeback 
scheme. He also doesnt think they treated him fairly based on his vulnerability at the time. 
Lloyds didnt agree they ought to have stopped Mr P making the payments. They pointed out 
they had stopped and challenged several payments and had given appropriate scam 
warnings, but ultimately it was his decision to proceed. They accepted they ought to have 
put him through to their department that deals with chargebacks and offered £150 
compensation for the impact of failing to do this. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. In summary she didnt agree that R were operating a scam. And she also 
didnt think that Mr P would have been able to make a successful chargeback claim. Mr P 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a significant amount of submissions to our service whilst bringing his 
complaint. Ive read and considered everything that he has sent in, but I wont be responding 
in similar detail. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just I dont feel I need to comment on it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service. 
Id like to say Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps ill health and the impact this has had on him. I dont 
doubt this whole situation has been incredibly difficult for him, particularly with such large 
sums of money involved and in the context of his ill health. 
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr P has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether R were operating a scam as Mr P alleges. 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time R were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySec). They were also able to offer their services to UK customers 
as recorded on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website. The services being offered 
may have been high risk and I accept Mr Ps testimony that its likely there were some 
questionable sales and marketing techniques. But that doesnt in itself mean R were 
operating a scam.
Ive considered all the evidence Mr P has provided which includes reports from the FCA. 
And I note that soon after Mr Ps payments had all been made the FCA withdrew their 
permission for R to offer their services in the UK. But this doesnt change my mind about 
whether R were operating a scam at the relevant time. The FCA withdrawing permission 
also doesnt automatically mean that R were operating a scam. 
Indeed, R returned around £55,000 to Mr P in June 2020. If R were operating a scam and 
were essentially a criminal enterprise, its difficult to understand why they would have done 
so. Our service received confirmation from the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman that they didnt 
investigate Mr Ps complaint because he had commenced legal proceedings against R. In a 
phone call with our Investigator in January 2022, Mr P said R had offered him £120,000 
which he declined. I appreciate this might have been motivated by Mr Ps legal action. But 
typically a scammer would try to keep as much as possible. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that R were operating a 
scam at the time Mr P made the payments. And although banks have obligations to be alert 
to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So as I dont think R were operating a scam, there isnt any reason for 
Lloyds to have intervened at the time Mr P made his payments to them. I appreciate that 
Lloyds did intervene and had conversations with Mr P, but Im not going to discuss those in 
detail because Ive concluded that there was no scam to protect Mr P against. 
Ultimately how Mr P chose to spend the money in his account was his business, and unless 
there is evidence of a fraud, scam or misappropriation of the funds, Lloyds arent required to 
interfere in this. I appreciate the payments represented a significant increase in spending 
compared to Mr Ps historical account use. But again, as there was no scam to protect 
against, I dont think Lloyds ought to have done more. 
RecoveryIn their letter dated 29 July 2020 Lloyds accepted that they ought to have put Mr P in contact 
with their Fraud and Disputes Department so that a chargeback could have been properly 
considered. They apologised and offered £150 for the impact of this. I consider this to be fair 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused by Lloyds throughout the circumstances of 
this complaint. But I still need to think about whether this failing by Lloyds has resulted in a 
financial loss to Mr P. In effect, had Lloyds chargeback team spoken to Mr P at the time, 
would this have resulted in the recovery of all or any of his funds?
I dont think it would have done and Ill explain why. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary 
scheme run by card issuers  in this case Visa  whereby Visa will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between a merchant and a customer if it cannot be resolved between them. There 
are rules to the scheme  set by Visa  which means there are only limited grounds and 
limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and 
potentially succeed. 
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for investments 
where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available balances. But Visa 
require very specific evidence - a copy of the cardholders investment account showing the 
date, the withdrawal amount and the available balance, at the time the withdrawal request 
was made.
Whilst Im sympathetic to the situation Mr P was in, I dont think Visa would have considered 
that his family members would have been able to make a withdrawal request on his behalf. 
Its very common for firms to only accept instructions from the accountholder unless there is 
a prior agreement such as a power of attorney or third-party mandate in place. Because of 
this I think the withdrawal request would have been the email that Mr P himself sent on 
28 May 2020. 
Mr Ps testimony is that by 28 May 2020 his account balance was zero having been closed 
the previous day. Our Investigator specifically asked Mr P if he had a dated screenshot of his 
available balance on 28 May 2020 and he didnt. And even if Mr P is mistaken and there was 
a balance on that date, the required evidence could never be obtained retrospectively. So 
this isnt a case where better engagement and advice from Lloyds about securing evidence 
would have helped. Mr P didnt have the required evidence for a successful chargeback 
(which in any case would have been limited to the available balance and not all his 
payments). So I cant fairly say that Lloyds failure to properly consider this at the time 
impacted on any recovery of his funds. 
Vulnerability
Part of Mr Ps complaint is that he feels Lloyds didnt take account of him being a vulnerable 
consumer. I accept that Mr P was vulnerable on account of his health at the times relevant to 
this complaint. I also accept that he may have made decisions that he wouldnt have done, 
were it not for his ill health. But until he informed Lloyds, I dont think they reasonably could 
have known this. So, I dont think Lloyds ought to have done anything differently prior to 
being informed of Mr Ps ill health. 
And after Mr P had made Lloyds aware, I dont think there were meaningful failings to 
account for his vulnerability. I think the £150 already offered is fair in all the circumstances to 
compensate for the impact of Lloyds not raising a chargeback at the time (something Ive 
concluded wouldnt have been successful) as well as to account for any poor service or 
failure to show more empathy to Mr Ps situation. I know Mr P feels particularly frustrated 
that Lloyds stopped communicating with him after theyd issued their complaint response. But this isnt uncommon as once a business has issued its complaint response, that 
represents its final position and its not unreasonable that they dont continue to correspond 
further on the matter. 
Im sorry Mr P has lost such a large amount of money and to hear of his health problems. 
But despite my natural sympathy for his situation I dont think Lloyds need to do more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman