DRN-4269603
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined his claim 
following a road traffic accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mr S was driving his car when he says a third-party manoeuvred into his 
lane without signalling. This resulted in a collision. Mr S says this was the fault of the third-
party driver. He doesnt think LV has investigated the matter properly. He says the collision 
took place further down the road than LV says it did. Mr S says the dashcam video provided 
by the third-party has been tampered with. And he doesnt think its fair that LV held him 
responsible for the incident.
In its complaint response LV says the dashcam footage shows Mr S changing lanes from a 
turn-right only lane into the side of the third-partys car. It says this shows Mr S was at fault. 
LV refers to the subrogated rights, within its policy terms, that allow it to settle a claim as it 
deems fit. Based on the dashcam footage, it determined Mr S was at fault and settled the 
third-partys claim on this basis. 
Mr S maintained the third-party had driven into the side of his car and so should be held 
responsible for the collision. He decided to refer the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She says LVs policy terms allow it to settle 
Mr Ss claim. It doesnt need his consent to do this. Our investigator thought the reasoning 
LV gave for settling the claim in favour of the third-party was reasonable.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain. 
Mr Ss policy terms state that in the event of a claim it is entitled to conduct, defend, and 
settle any claim. This is a common term found in motor insurance policies. Its referred to as 
subrogation. It essentially means that LV can decide how to handle a claim and how it 
should be settled. This doesnt mean it can do whatever it wants. LV is still expected to treat 
its customers fairly. 
I dont think LV acted contrary to the terms of its policy when settling Mr Ss claim in favour 
of the third-party driver. But I have considered how it reached this decision to understand 
whether it has treated him fairly. 
We asked LV for a copy of the dashcam video. It says it doesnt have a copy of this 
information stored, so was unable to provide it. 
I understand LV sent Mr S links to view the footage for both the front and rear-view cameras 
the third-party had in place. However, one of the links didnt work. Given the difficulties he 
had with the files. LV provided Mr S with a series of still images detailing the time up to and 
including the collision. In the absence of video footage, Ive considered this information in 
detail. 
With each image LV has included a description of where the vehicles are in relation to each 
other. Mr Ss car starts in the third of three lanes at a set of traffic lights. The third lane is 
marked for traffic turning right only. When the lights turn green the third-party is driving in 
lane two and proceeds through the traffic lights travelling straight on. Mr Ss car is still in the 
right-hand lane at this point. The camera view switches to the rear. The right-turn road 
markings can still be seen for lane three. 
At this point the images show Mr Ss car has moved over into the second lane occupied by 
the third-party. I think its clear that this is where the collision occurred. The third-party 
maintained position in the second lane continuing straight on. Mr S manoeuvred to the left, 
out of the turn right only lane, into the second lane resulting in the collision. Based on the 
images provided Mr S moved around a car that was turning right at the traffic lights, into the 
second lane where he collided with the third-party.
Ive looked at the images Mr S provided showing his vehicle, and the third-partys car, after 
the collision. Ive also looked online using a map at street level at the location of the incident. 
Together with the dashcam images LV supplied, Im satisfied the collision occurred where 
LV determined it had. I understand Mr Ss view that the collision took place some way up the 
road after the traffic lights. But I dont think the images he and LV provided support this view. 
The collision occurred close to the traffic lights as LV said it did. 
I acknowledge Mr Ss view that the dashcam video has been altered. He says in the video 
the driver of the third-party vehicle can be heard making a comment about the collision at the 
time it happened. He says this shows the collision happened 50 metres up the road. I 
understand Mr S has strong views on this matter. But Im satisfied from the images Ive seen 
that his vehicle moved into the lane occupied by the third party, and this was near to the 
traffic lights LV highlighted. 
Based on this evidence I dont think LV behaved unreasonably in deciding Mr S was at fault 
for the collision. It follows that I cant fairly ask it to change the outcome of his claim.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman