DRN-3499233
The complaint
Mr H complains that in 2017, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) said he could 
make an early payment against his credit card at any time to avoid paying interest before the 
bill was issued, but Halifax ignored his early repayment and interest was still added to his 
account. He also complains that he was given misleading information.
What happened
Mr H said that Halifax advertises that its Clarity credit card customers can withdraw cash 
abroad without incurring costs. However, he says there is a hidden cost of interest imposed 
on customers which they cannot avoid. He says it is not explained properly to customers that 
cash withdrawals accrue interest, so he concludes this should be made much clearer. 
Mr H opened his account on 12 May 2017. He explains that he made cash withdrawals on 
his credit card abroad. He paid money into the account in the days after the foreign 
transactions to settle the bill and to avoid paying interest; on some occasions he pre-loaded 
his credit card to achieve the same purpose. He said the terms and conditions said he had 
the right to repay all or part of the credit at any time. However, he said his pre-payment was 
ignored and the foreign transaction still accrued interest until the end of the month. He says 
he had to accept an extortionate interest rate; he thinks Halifaxs terms and conditions are 
misleading so they should be made clearer. He wants to be reimbursed for the interest he 
paid.
He also engaged in online webchats with Halifax advisers on various dates, starting on 12 
May  the day he opened his account. He says he was given misleading information that he 
wouldnt have to pay interest on his cash withdrawals.
Halifax said the foreign currency transaction fee and the cash withdrawal fee in relation to Mr 
Hs foreign transactions were both charged at 0%. It also explained that credit cards are not 
designed to be pre-loaded with funds and  although this can be done  it will still apply 
interest for cash withdrawals daily as the Clarity card is a credit facility.
 
In respect of the webchats, Halifax said its first adviser did give the correct information about 
fees and interest on Mr Hs credit card.
So Halifax rejected Mr Hs complaint saying it had not done anything wrong because it had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions.
  
Our investigator also rejected Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed with our investigators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I looked at the terms and conditions which Halifax said were the terms and conditions 
for Mr Hs Clarity credit card. So it is more than likely that they would have been the terms 
and conditions Mr H agreed to when he opened the account. Having looked at them very 
carefully, it does explain that Halifax can charge foreign transaction fees and cash 
withdrawal fees. In respect of Mr Hs account, these fees are charged at 0%. So there were 
no fees added to his foreign transactions in 2017. So Halifax acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and I dont think it did anything wrong here.
The terms and conditions also explain that daily interest will be charged to all cash 
withdrawals (whatever the currency) from the date of the transaction and that daily interest 
will be added to a consumers balance on their statement date. The statement is a demand 
for immediate payment, and it tells the consumer when the payment is due. 
With regard to customers making payments to their credit card, the terms and conditions say 
they should at least pay the minimum repayment each month, or they can pay all or part of 
the balance owed by the payment due date, but it also says the customer should not pay 
more than he owes. I would expect to see these instructions as Halifax is referring to a credit 
facility, not a current account. Halifax accepts that even though a customer can pay more 
than they owe, the account will still be operated as a credit facility which means the cash 
withdrawals will still accrue interest until the statement date. In addition to that, I havent 
seen anything in the terms and conditions which suggests a consumer can avoid paying little 
or no interest on foreign cash withdrawals if the consumer independently brings forward the 
date when the payment is made. 
So although the interest cannot be avoided on foreign cash withdrawals where Mr H has 
made an overpayment to his account or where he has attempted to pay off the balance 
before the statement date  this is not surprising and I think this falls in with the way credit 
card accounts generally work in respect of foreign cash withdrawals. I also think the terms 
and conditions are clear that he will be charged 0% withdrawal fees and that interest will still 
be applied up to the statement date on all cash withdrawals. In addition, it is more than likely 
that Mr H agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions when he applied for the credit 
card. So I dont think Halifax did anything wrong here.
Mr H also said he had been given misleading information during online webchats with 
Halifax advisers which started on the day Mr H opened the account on 12 May 2017. He 
produced extracts of the online chats which Ive read very carefully. 
The adviser on a date on or around 12 May said Mr H wouldnt have to pay fees on cash 
withdrawals  however, the adviser corrected himself when he was reminded Mr H had a 
Clarity card.  So the adviser then told Mr H he would not have to pay fees on cash 
withdrawals. In respect of this webchat, I think the correct information about fees was given 
by the end of the conversation. Another adviser said Mr H wouldnt pay fees but would be 
charged interest - which is the correct position for the Clarity card. We sent the extracts of 
the webchats to Halifax and asked for its comments. Halifax couldnt produce the full 
webchats from 2017 but it did note that an adviser did give the correct information about fees 
and interest for Mr Hs credit card.
On balance, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong here because the adviser who gave the 
wrong information corrected himself during the conversation. Also, if Mr H was confused by 
the webchats, he did the right thing and referred to his terms and conditions. On doing so, I 
think they probably would have dispelled any confusion he may have had because - as Ive 
already decided - the terms and conditions were clear in explaining the fees and interest 
payable.Taking everything into account, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong. I think it has 
applied its terms and conditions in the way I would expect it to in respect of a credit facility 
and it explained its position in the webchat extracts I have seen. This means I am not going 
to uphold this complaint.
Mr H has made another complaint point about the annual percentage rate which Halifax was 
not initially asked to address in this complaint. If Mr H wishes to take this further, he will have 
to complain to Halifax first and then refer it to this service if he is unhappy with the final 
response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman