DRN-2225244
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled a claim she 
made under her mobile phone insurance policy. In particular, shes unhappy that the 
replacement phone she was sent contained the previous owners pin code. She also says 
she hurt her elbow during a call with the customer services team and wants compensation 
for that. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased a mobile phone insurance policy through a high street mobile phone shop 
on 2 September 2019. The policy was underwritten by Aviva.
On 31 July 2020, Mrs M made a successful claim under the policy and was sent a 
refurbished replacement phone in line with the policy terms and conditions.
On 4 August 2020, Mrs M contacted Aviva because her new phone wouldnt recognise her 
passcode. She was provided with a replacement phone on the same day.
On 7 August 2020, Mrs M contacted Aviva as she couldnt complete the set-up of her phone. 
She was told it was an issue with her own credentials and wasnt a technical issue with the 
phone. She was referred to another company, who Ill call A to help her reset her 
password. Mrs M was still unable to resolve the issue so complained to Aviva. Her complaint 
was upheld, due to the problem shed experienced with the original replacement phone, and 
she was paid £60 compensation. 
On 12 August 2020, Mrs M went into a store to get assistance and was told the problem was 
with her registered email address; the problem was then resolved. 
Mrs M then raised a complaint about an injury shed suffered to her arm, while trying to get 
the issue resolved. Aviva reviewed Mrs Ms complaint about her arm being injured but said 
there was no record of her mentioning this on any of her calls with them, so they didnt 
uphold that element of her complaint. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint and issued her view, not upholding the 
complaint, on 10 September 2020. She said that our service couldnt look into any personal 
injury claim Mrs M wanted to make against Aviva. She also said she was satisfied that Aviva 
had sent a faulty phone to Mrs M but as soon as they were made aware of that they sent her 
a replacement refurbished phone, so the £60 Aviva paid Mrs M to compensate her for that, 
was sufficient. Lastly, our investigator explained that the issue with the second replacement 
phone was an email address problem, rather than a technical handset issue, so she didnt 
agree that Aviva was responsible for any of the issues Mrs M encountered in the set-up of 
that phone. 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M had a valid claim under her mobile phone policy. Its also not in 
dispute that Aviva sent her a faulty refurbished replacement phone that caused her some 
inconvenience. What is in dispute is whether the second replacement phone that Mrs M 
received was also faulty and whether Aviva is responsible for the issues Mrs M encountered 
with the second replacement phone. 
Ive considered the available evidence and Im satisfied that Aviva isnt responsible for the 
issues Mrs M encountered with the second replacement phone. It appears that Mrs M had 
tried to set up her phone using an incorrect email address, and the issues she had with the 
second replacement phone were resolved once shed received help with setting up her 
phone correctly.  
Aviva have paid Mrs M £60 for the inconvenience she suffered as a result of initially being 
sent a faulty replacement refurbished phone, and Im satisfied that is sufficient to 
compensate her for any inconvenience caused. 
As our investigator explained, its outside of this services remit to consider Mrs Ms personal 
injury claim, so I wont be commenting on that any further.
My final decision
My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limiteds payment of £60 compensation to Mrs M to 
settle the complaint is fair in all the circumstances. I make no other award against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman