DRN-3393473
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a direct debit indemnity.
What happened
Miss H says she bought an item for £1,225 via a business I will call P. She says she asked 
Barclays to raise a dispute for the payment in April 2021, but it raised a dispute for the wrong 
amount of £1,427. Miss H says that led to a series of problems and resulted in the debt of 
£1,225 being passed to a third-party debt collection business. She says she asked Barclays 
to send the money back to P, but it didnt do so. Miss H says the mistakes caused significant 
stress levels and caused her lost working hours. She would like appropriate compensation.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake by crediting Miss Hs account with the wrong amount. It 
accepts that it couldnt return the money which it later told Miss H about. Barclays has paid 
£40 compensation.
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and recommended 
Barclays pay a further £75 compensation. The investigator accepted Barclays made a 
mistake which caused further problems but said she could only consider Bs mistake as it 
clear there were other businesses also involved. The investigator thought Barclays had 
called Miss H to discuss what took place and to tell her that she would need to refund P the 
money herself.
Barclays has agreed to pay the additional compensation.
Miss H doesnt agree with that view and in summary says the compensation offer grossly 
ignores her mental anguish and doesnt take account of her medical expenses such as the 
£160 she spent on headache tablets bought in the last few months of 2021 alone. She would 
like £400 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays should pay the compensation 
recommended by the investigator. I appreciate Miss H will be disappointed by my decision 
and appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place. I also make clear to Miss H 
that I can only consider the actions of Barclays in this decision and not those of other 
businesses involved.
There is no dispute here that Barclays made a mistake about what ought to have been a 
relatively straightforward issue. I dont need to repeat what took place, but I accept Miss H 
was caused distress and inconvenience. And I also accept that Miss H would have taken 
some time to try and sort matters out which would have involved a number of telephone 
calls. But Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for what took place and I have not 
seen any evidence of Miss H suffering any financial loss as a result of the mistake.
The key issue for me to decide is the level of compensation. Im satisfied that Barclays tried 
to contact Miss H to explain that she needed to repay the money herself and Im satisfied 
that it did what it could to assist Miss H within a matter of weeks after the mistake. I 
appreciate that Miss H says she spent £160 on tablets but I cant fairly conclude Barclays 
mistake resulted in the need to take such medication some months after the events in April 
2021. I have made clear that I have not seen evidence of financial loss caused by the 
mistake and think the impact on Miss H was relatively moderate within the types of 
compensation awards we make. So, Im satisfied that Barclays should pay £115 
compensation which I think is fair and reasonable and in line with the type of awards we 
made for this type of complaint. I dont think Miss H has told us if she has repaid the money 
to P and I cant see why doing so would have caused any real inconvenience.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay a further £75 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss 
H a further £75 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman