DRN-3503438
The complaint
Ms H complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLCs (RSA) handling and poor 
service following her claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H had a leak at her home which cause damage to her property. She contacted RSA who 
instructed contractors to carry out the repairs. Following completion of the work Ms H raised 
a number of concerns. These concerns had to do with the standard of the work completed, 
the quality of the materials used, the inadequate alternative accommodation she was 
allowed to rent and the general handling of the claim. Ultimately, Ms H made a complaint to 
RSA. 
In its final response, RSA partially upheld her complaint. It accepted that there had been 
issues during the claims process and paid the following - £260 as a payment for cleaning her 
home, which it should have cleaned before Ms H moved back into the house. It paid a 
further £385 towards the cost of a table that had been damaged by the contractor. It also 
agreed to pay £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Making a total of £1,455. 
Ms H was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service as she was 
unhappy with the resolution. She felt that the kitchen units that had been replaced by RSA 
were not of the same quality and she wanted a far greater amount of compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that RSA had been fair in its 
resolution. They said that there had been errors made by RSA but it had addressed those 
errors by paying for the cost of the table, paying for the cleaning costs, as well as offering to 
send in an assessor to assess the work and carry out rectification of it. Further they said that 
the £800 paid by way of compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
RSA accepted the view, Ms H did not. She felt that the budget allowed for the alternative 
accommodation was too restrictive and meant that she was forced to obtain unsuitable 
accommodation for her and her family. She said that RSA had failed to consider the 
additional issues (mainly to do with the kitchen installation and poor quality of the kitchen 
used), that transpired after it had issued its final response. Finally, she felt that the 
compensation of £800 wasnt enough due to all the issues. So, she asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. But for much the same reason as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment for Ms H, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have carefully considered both parties comments and evidence they have presented. The 
main issues of this complaint are, the suitability of the alternative accommodation that Ms H 
had to move into, quality of the workmanship and finish, the quality of the replacement 
kitchen units, the level of service and whether the £800 compensation offered, is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ms H said that she was forced to take the alternative accommodation (AA) she found, as
RSA gave her a restrictive budget. Although I understand the difficulties that Ms H would 
have faced in having to relocate whilst the work was carried out at her home., I can find no 
evidence to support that Ms H was forced into accepting the alternative accommodation. I 
say this as, Ms H chose the alternative accommodation that she stayed in and also extended 
the stay of the accommodation where necessary. 
I understand that there had been an issue with the first accommodation that was found by 
RSA and as Ms H found that that accommodation was unsuitable, RSA permitted her to find 
accommodation that was suited to her needs. 
Further, it also agreed to and paid for the cost of housing Ms Hs pets, which wasnt 
something that was provided for under the policy. It's not always possible to find AA which is 
exactly a like for like. But RSAs obligations under the policy were to supply AA that had all 
the amenities of Ms Hs home.  Which I think the AA Ms H chose had. 
I appreciate that Ms H felt she had been given a restrictive budget, but the policy terms and 
conditions do have a limit which I would expect RSA and Ms H to be aware of.  RSA said 
that it paid a total of £19,682.84 for the AA.  Whilst I accept that this didnt reach the limit of 
the AA allowed (under Ms Hs policy it was 20% of the sums insured). I do think that RSA 
acted fairly as it covered all the costs (including the housing of Ms Hs pets which wasnt 
provided for under the policy) for the accommodation that Ms H ultimately chose. 
I have next considered the poor workmanship, finish and the issues Ms H experienced 
relating to her furniture. 
RSA accepted that the finish to the kitchen wasnt up to standard. It recognised that there 
were delays for example when receiving materials that were required. Ms H said that as the 
work was so poor, an independent surveyor should be appointed to provide a report of all 
the issues of concern, which RSA ought to pay for.
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions and this is not covered under the policy. In 
addition, I have read the customer satisfaction form that was completed by Ms Hs family 
member who expressed their good satisfaction at the level of work. Despite this, RSA has 
agreed to send in surveyors to inspect all areas, listen to Ms Hs concerns, report their 
findings and carry out any remedial work required.  RSA has also confirmed that this 
surveyor can be an independent surveyor of Ms Hs choice and that it will meet that 
surveyors costs.  Which I think is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances. 
Ms H explained that many of the issues relating to the kitchen had manifested after RSA had 
issued its final response. She also said that RSA had failed to address these issues at all. 
For instance, Ms H said that the kitchen units had begun to deteriorate after installation but 
not as a result of continued use, but as a result of the poor-quality units that had been 
installed by RSA. And the units had been deteriorating ever since.RSA said that it had replaced the kitchen units on a like-for-like basis. It explained that the 
kitchen that had been fitted came from the same range and specification as the original 
kitchen that was in the house. It further said that the quality of the units were, the same as 
Ms Hs original units and has provided evidence in support of this. It confirmed that it had a 
site visit and found that the first installation of the kitchen had some issues. As a result, it 
appointed another contractor to put the works right, which they did, and it also bought new 
parts for the kitchen. And when the contractors left, the kitchen was in good working order 
with no issues. 
RSA also provided me with several photographs of the kitchen in support. Having reviewed 
those photographs Im persuaded by RSA that the kitchen has now been installed with no 
issues. But, as Ms H still expresses some concerns, I think its fair that as RSA has agreed 
for a further inspection, that this take place as soon as practicable. Of course, If Ms H 
remains unhappy, she can raise a new complaint, if she wishes to. 
Ms H also complains that the compensation offered  a total of £800, did not adequately 
compensate her for the trouble and upset caused. I have carefully considered what both 
parties have said. And it has been accepted by RSA that there were issues regarding a hob 
not being connected, her home being left uncleaned, furniture being damaged by its 
contractors, as well as the replacement of a dining table. 
Im pleased to see that RSA addressed those issues. Ms H was given a disturbance 
allowance for the error of her hob not being connected. She was also given the equivalent 
payment of the cost of cleaning her home, as RSA hadnt cleaned it before she moved back. 
She also received replacement furniture (due to the furniture becoming damaged) and a 
replacement table. In relation to the table, RSA agreed to pay an uplifted amount for it, to 
ensure that Ms H didnt have to wait too long to receive it. 
Taking all of the errors into consideration, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to have 
offered compensation. Im satisfied that Ms H was impacted by those errors. RSA accepted 
the errors and provided £750 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I think that 
the amount offered is in line with what wed expect for the distress caused. 
In addition, RSA offered a further £50 for the level of service Ms H said she received from 
call handlers. Despite there not being recordings of the calls, RSA has accepted that 
compensation was warranted. In total, compensation of £800 has been offered to Ms H for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our service has publicised levels of compensation and on what we think is fair and in what 
circumstances. An award of this amount is fair where the impact of RSAs mistake caused 
substantial distress or serious disruption to daily life. I take into consideration all the points 
that Ms H has raised, and I do find that her daily life was impacted. But I also think that the 
amount offered by way of compensation, is fair. So, I wont be asking it to increase this offer. 
Putting things right
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Ms H wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
RSA  to do anything more to resolve this complaint, as it has already offered Ms H £800 
compensation, and replaced furniture, which I think is fair. It has also offered to pay for the 
costs of an independent surveyor (of Ms Hs choice) to inspect the home and write a report 
with any necessary recommendations, which I think is also reasonable. My final decision
For the reasons given, I will uphold this complaint. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC has already offered £800 compensation, which I 
think is fair in all the circumstances. And it should pay this if it hasnt done so already.
It has also agreed to pay the costs of an independent surveyor to inspect the work and 
produce recommendations. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman