DRN-1621533
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a hire purchase agreement, taken out in 
2001. The PPI was taken out in a store, at the same time as taking out the credit facility.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so this complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL says this policy was taken out in store and have provided Mrs Cs credit agreement. 
This agreement includes a reference to a branch, and there is nothing else to suggest this 
policy was taken out by any other means. So, based on what Ive seen I think its likely this 
policy was taken out in store. 
The agreement includes a separate section for PPI where the customer was required to sign 
if they wished to take out this policy  and I can see Mrs C has signed in this section in 
addition to signing to agree to the credit. Since our adjudicator completed their initial 
assessment of the case Mrs C has responded to say that she is aware that she signed for 
the PPI but says she didnt know what she was signing for. Ive carefully considered what 
Mrs C has said alongside the evidence I have available. I think the section for PPI on the 
application form is clear and is in a separate box of text entitled Payment Protection 
Insurance Application. The information in this box includes a line saying ONLY SIGN IF 
YOU WANT COVER. I accept that I dont have a recording of this meeting or a lot of other 
evidence about what the sales representative said at the time, but I think the application form 
makes it clear that PPI is a separate and additional product. So, I think if Mrs C was unaware 
of what she was signing for or hadnt been told anything about the policy its likely she 
wouldve questioned this before signing to agree to take out the PPI. 
So, based on the information I have seen, I think its more likely than not that FICL made it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mrs C chose to take it out, knowing it was something she 
couldve said no to.FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs C says received a pay-out for being made redundant in 1993 and another pay out on 
behalf of her late husband in 1999. But she has also told us she didnt have any sick pay 
entitlement from her employers at the time. I havent seen any evidence of the funds she 
received in 1993 and 1999, but I think its likely that this money wouldve been put to use at 
the time or set aside in savings for a future need. Considering Mrs C wasnt entitled to any 
sick pay from her employer, its likely she wouldve found this policy useful had she been too 
unwell to work. And having this policy in place also meant that any funds she had saved 
from previous lump sum pay-outs couldve be saved for any future needs. So, I still think the 
policy couldve been useful for her.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman