DRN-4147237
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr L applied for a credit card with NatWest. NatWest approved the 
application and gave Mr L a credit card with an initial credit limit of £6,750.
Mr L complained that NatWest lent to him irresponsibly. He said he only asked for a £500 
credit limit but was given £6,750. He says NatWest shouldnt have lent to him because it was 
apparent from his bank account that he was a heavy drinker, drug taker and gambler.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and found that 
Mr L had sufficient income to afford the credit card repayments.
Mr L was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that NatWest hadnt made a fair lending 
decision when it gave Mr L a card with such a high credit limit.
Mr L didnt agree with the outcome. He didnt think he should have to pay back the full 
amount hed borrowed and said he wanted the bank to accept a lower sum in settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ls complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that NatWest had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr L was able to sustainably repay the loan. These 
checks needed to ne focussed on the borrowers circumstances and could take into account 
things like the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of the repayments and 
the consumers financial circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr L declared monthly income of £1320 when he applied for the account. He also declared 
that he had no dependants and that he was living at home with his parents. Mr L declared 
monthly expenditure of £794 which included living costs, existing credit repayments and 
revolving debt payments.
NatWest has said that it carried out an affordability assessment before lending to Mr L. It 
used the information provided by Mr L, as well as information it had obtained from credit 
reference agencies and the office of national statistics to carry out an income and 
expenditure assessment.
NatWest has said that there was nothing in the information it obtained from Mr Ls credit file 
which gave it cause for concern, NatWest hasnt been able to provide this service with a 
copy of the credit checks it carried out, so I havent been able to look at what level of 
consumer debt Mr L already had and how this was being managed.
Ive considered the high credit limit on the account. Given that Mr L had a low income, I think 
it wouldve been proportionate for NatWest to have carried out further checks to verify Mr Ls 
income and expenditure to ensure that the lending was affordable for him.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown. A 
reasonable check could have involved a review of Mr Ls bank statements. Ive looked at 
these for the period immediately prior to the credit application.
The bank statements show that Mr Ls average monthly income was £1441, and his average 
monthly expenditure was £1553. This indicates that Mr L didnt have enough disposable 
income to make the minimum repayments on the account. Looking at Mr Ls expenditure in 
detail, I can see that he withdrew large amounts of cash on a regular basis and also make 
payment to other credit card providers. Theres information on the bank statements to 
suggest that Mr L was gambling. I think its reasonable to expect NatWest to have been 
aware that Mr L was gambling because he held his current account with them.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think NatWest made a fair lending decision. If 
proportionate checks had been completed, I think NatWest wouldve seen that Mr L was 
unlikely to have been able to afford the lending.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I dont think NatWest shouldve given Mr L the account. Mr L has had the 
benefit of the money hes spent, so I think its fair that he repays all of this. However, I dont 
think NatWest should charge interest or charges under the agreement.
National Westminster Bank Plc should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr L along with 8% 
simple interest per year *. NatWest should also remove all adverse information from Mr Ls 
credit file relating to this account. 
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance, NatWest should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr L for the outstanding amount. Once Mr L has cleared the balance, 
NatWest should remove all adverse information from Mr Ls credit file relating to the account.
*HMRC require NatWest to deduct tax from any award of interest. NatWest must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman