DRN-2024904
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Ageas Insurance Limited applied the wrong policy excess when 
they made a claim for damage under their home insurance policy.
Mr W is the representative on this complaint. So for ease Ive referred to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr W.
What happened
In February 2020 there was a storm. It resulted in significant rainfall in a short period of time 
and caused flooding to the street where Mr W lives. He woke in the early hours of the 
morning to find water coming into his property at the ground floor level. This water caused 
damage to his home.
Ageas accepted the claim and agreed there were storm conditions at the time of the 
damage. But given the water entered the property at the ground level, it charged him the 
excess under the flood section of his policy, which was £1,000.
Mr W complained to Ageas. He said the cause of the flood had been the storm, and the 
heavy rainfall as the storm passed. So he thought the storm excess should be applied, 
which he says is £100. He said the river hadnt burst its banks near his property, so it was 
only the rainfall, from the storm, which had resulted in water coming into his home. Ageas 
didnt agree to change its mind so Mr W complained to our service.
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably in applying the flood excess. She said 
whilst there was no doubt there was a storm, the damage was caused by a build-up of water, 
so it was fair that Ageas had classed it as a flood.
Mr W didnt accept that. He said Ageas had failed to recognise that the insurance policy has 
clauses for storm and flood, but only flood has been used to determine the excess payable. 
He said hed tried to reach an agreement with Ageas but hadnt been successful.
As Mr W didnt accept what the investigator said, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy applies different excess to different insured events. Ive noted Mr W said his 
storm excess was £100. Id like to clarify, for Mr Ws benefit, from looking at his policy 
schedule his general buildings insurance excess, which covers storm, is £350, not £100.
Ageas accepts there was a storm on the day Mr Ws property suffered damage. But it says it 
has applied the flood excess of £1,000 because the damage is typical of flood damage. It 
says the water entered Mr Ws property at the ground level through a combination of a local 
river bursting its banks, and the local drainage system being overwhelmed by heavy rainfall. 
Mr W argues if it wasnt for the storm, the flood wouldnt have happened. He also noted the 
river didnt burst its banks near his home, so he believes the main factor to be the storm.
Having looked at both sides, I dont think Ageas has treated Mr W unfairly in applying the 
flood excess. Flood is defined in the policy as:
Overflowing or movement of a body of water (volumes, weight or force of which are 
substantial and exceptional beyond normal limits) which enters a property rapidly from an 
external source from outside the Buildings and which enters at the ground floor or below.
Based on the above I consider the water entering Mr Ws property to be fairly defined as a 
flood. And whilst I accept that the storm was the cause of the heavy rainfall, the rainfall itself 
didnt damage the property. It was the overflowing water entering Mr Ws property at the 
ground level which caused the damage to his home. So I think Ageas has acted fairly in 
saying the damage is covered under the flood section of the policy. I accept theres some 
uncertainty over where the water came from; whether the river was a contributing factor or 
not. But on balance having considered everything I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to 
consider the claim under the flood section. 
Mr W says Ageas hasnt considered that both sections can apply. I agree that it hasnt. But I 
dont think that would make a difference to the outcome of this case even if it had. I say this 
because Mr Ws policy says:
if more than one policy section is affected by the same claim only one excess will be 
deducted. If the excesses under each section are different the higher excess will be 
deducted.
So, if Ageas accepted there was storm damage and flood damage, it seems Mr W would 
probably still have been charged a £1,000 excess.
I recognise theres a significant difference between the excess amounts, but its up to 
insurers to decide what levels they apply when setting insurance prices. And based on 
everything above I dont think it treated Mr W unfairly in applying the £1,000 excess.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman