DRN-2982545
Complaint
Miss L has complained about the charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) applied to the 
overdraft on her current account. 
Background
Miss Ls complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He eventually concluded that 
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly. So he didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to 
the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Miss L if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Ls 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware that it was unfair to do so. 
Miss L says its unfair for Lloyds to have added these charges without notifying her of them 
in advance or providing statements. And having looked at everything provided, it was clear 
that there was some kind of mix-up over Miss Ls statements. Miss L appears to have 
changed her correspondence address to one outside of the United Kingdom. 
However, Lloyds records appear to suggest that it placed some kind of gone away marker 
(presumably because it had an item it sent returned as undelivered) on Miss Ls account as 
a result of receiving undelivered post. Miss L disputes this as she did receive statements 
albeit sporadically after this date. But she says she didnt receive statements once she went 
overdrawn.
Its not entirely clear what happened here. But it does like some sort of mix up happened, 
which prevented Miss L from receiving at least some of her statements. Miss L argues that 
this should be the end of the matter and ensure her complaint succeeds as she pays to 
receive statements and she didnt receive the service. Ive thought about what Miss L has 
said. But as far as I can see she didnt have a fee-paying account and I cant see that she 
was paying a fee to receive statements. So I dont agree that she was paying a fee for a 
service she didnt receive and therefore Im not persuaded that any non-receipt of 
statements automatically means her complaint should succeed.
That said, I do agree that some customers rely on receiving statements to know and 
understand whats going on with their account. But Im particular mindful that what Miss L 
has told us clearly demonstrates she knew that she was only receiving her statements 
sporadically, in circumstances where shes also said she relied on the statements to know 
what was going on with her account. 
I know that Miss L has said that she went into a branch every summer between 2011 and 
2018 in order to try and establish online banking but wasnt able to. And it could be argued 
that this was Miss L taking steps to mitigate her position. Be that as it may, it is still unclear 
to me why Miss L didnt attempt to rectify the situation in relation to receiving her statements 
during these branch visits. And more importantly its unclear to me why Miss L didnt ask for 
her updated account balance when she was in branch in the summer of 2017 and the 
summer of 2018, given she was there already. 
I think this is particularly important because if Miss L had done this at this stage she would 
have been told that her account was overdrawn. Given Miss L doesnt appear to have done 
this and continued making some transactions from the account without knowing whether she 
had sufficient funds, its difficult for me to say that any errors Lloyds might have made in 
relation to sending Miss Ls statements were the primary cause of Miss Ls overdrawn 
balance.
Unfortunately, it seems to me that Miss L had opportunities to notify Lloyds about the 
problems she was having receiving statements. And given the reliance she says she placed 
on them, I would have expected her to have done this when she says she was in branch. As 
Miss L didnt do so and her actions in not clearing the overdrawn balance in the summer of 
2017 and 2018 suggest she doesnt appear to have enquired about her balance when in 
branch at these respective stages either, I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for the 
overdrawn balance on Miss Ls account.    
As this is the case, the account appears to have had some usage and there was no obvious 
indication of financial difficulty, I dont think that Lloyds needs to refund any of the interest, 
fees and charges it charged for Miss Ls use of the overdraft. So Im not upholding Miss Ls 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss L  especially as she has 
been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman