The complaint
Mr B complains that Band of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 2007 Mr B took out a credit card with BOS and at the same time he took out a PPI policy 
to protect his repayments. Mr B applied for his account and the PPI through the Internet.
When Mr B complained to BOS that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree to uphold his 
complaint.
BOS also considered if any excess commission and profit share that had been part of the 
premiums Mr B had paid, needed to be refunded and when looking at this offered 
compensation in total of £2,232.90 before tax.  
Mr B wasnt happy with what BOS had said about the mis-sale and brought his complaint to 
this service. Mr B is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B says he didnt know the PPI was optional and he wasnt given full information about the 
policy and its costs. Also he says he was not asked about his individual needs and made 
aware he could cancel the policy if he wanted to.   
Mr B took out the PPI at the same time he applied for his credit card and this was done over 
the Internet. To do this Mr B submitted his details on-line, chose what he wanted and then 
the information was put into an application form that was sent to him to check, sign and 
return. BOS has provided a copy of the application form completed and returned by Mr B.
That application form had been completed using the information Mr B had submitted on line. 
It clearly states he had requested Repayment Cover, which was what BOS called the PPI. 
On the application form Mr B signed and returned to BOS, after the signature box to sign for 
the credit agreement there was a separate box relating to the PPI. This box for the PPI 
required Mr B to tick to say he wanted the PPI and he had to sign separately in this box.
DRN-1727353Looking at the application process and the forms Mr B signed I think he was aware he had a 
choice whether to take out the PPI or not.
Mr B should also have been aware of the costs and the restrictions of the policy as the full 
terms and conditions were provided at the point of sale on line and also sent to him with the 
application form. 
There was also a demands and needs statement for the PPI sent out and referred to, when 
Mr B was asked to sign the application form to take out the PPI. This demands and needs 
statement contained information Mr B had input on-line and he had to check and confirm that 
the information had been recorded correctly and was accurate as set out. This information 
established Mr Bs eligibility for the PPI and its suitability for his circumstances.
In any event, I can see from the information provided to us that Mr B met all the basic criteria 
to be eligible for the policy, such as his age and being in employment. Also he had no 
unusual employment conditions and no medical conditions that could have restricted claims 
on the policy. So, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover even if they were not made totally clear to him. And I have seen nothing to show 
the cost was not affordable. Therefore, I think the policy was suitable for him.
Mr B has indicated he cannot remember what employment benefits he may have had, but 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits he would have received, 
allowing the income from his work benefits, if any, to pay for other household expenses. And 
Mr B has indicated he had no savings. So I think the policy would have provided a useful 
benefit to him. 
Taking account of everything I have seen, I think Mr B chose to take out the policy, it was 
suitable for his circumstances and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I have also considered the rules relating to excess commission and profit share at levels 
over 50 % of the premium costs and what this means for Mr B. BOS has indicated that some 
excess commission was paid by Mr B and offered compensation of £2,232.90 before tax. 
This amount includes all excess commission amounts and any interest and fees caused by 
this being in the credit card balance. BOS has also worked out and paid compensatory 
interest because Mr B was out of pocket for this money. 
I think looking at the figures provided what BOS has paid is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland plc, 
so I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman