DRN-3062601
The complaint
Mr M complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim under his legal
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2014, Mr M paid to have a survey completed on a property that he later went on to 
purchase. In 2020, he instructed an estate agent who provided a floor plan of the property. 
This showed the square footage was less than the surveyor had previously stated. Mr M was 
concerned there had been a breach of contract and / or professional negligence. 
Mr M contacted his legal expenses provider on the claims helpline number stated in his 
policy documents. He says that he tried several times to get through, was on hold for a total 
of over five hours and left voicemails. But he didnt hear back for a few days.
Once he received a call back, he was advised the helpline was for legal advice only and they 
couldnt help with the claims process. He was sent a claim form, which he completed and 
returned to Amtrust.
Amtrust declined the claim as the insured incident hadnt occurred within the policy period, 
which is a requirement of cover under the policy. It said the breach of contract had occurred 
in 2014, but Mr Ms policy wasnt taken out until June 2018. Amtrust suggested that if Mr M 
had legal expenses insurance with another provider in 2014, then he should contact them 
about his claim.
Mr M disputed Amtrusts decision. He said he wasnt aware of the breach of contract until 
2020 when he received a further floor plan of his property showing a smaller square footage. 
So he couldnt reasonably have made his claim any sooner. This was escalated to a 
manager who initially maintained the decision to decline the claim, but later agreed it could 
be covered under its treating customers fairly policy. This was on the basis that Mr M had 
previous legal expenses insurance under his parents policy.
Amtrust instructed its panel firm of solicitors to conduct a legal assessment of the claim. It 
was the solicitors advice that it didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success based on the 
information available, and that it was unlikely to be proportionate to pursue  both of which 
are requirements for cover under the legal expenses policy.
The solicitor said that in order to determine whether reasonable prospects existed, Mr M 
would need to obtain expert evidence. But they advised Mr M to think carefully before doing 
so as any report would likely be expensive, and the costs may not be recoverable.
Mr M complains that:
1. the policy advertises a claims helpline which he believed would assist him in making 
his claim and give advice about cover. He later found out that this is a legal helpline, 
which is advertised separately in the policy documents.
2. the helpline was not as accessible as advertised in the policy. It said its available 
24/7, but he was unable to get through for several days and spent a substantial 
amount of time on hold. Whilst hes been compensated by the law firm that 
administers the helpline, he feels Amtrust should take responsibility for the services it 
provides.
3. the initial rejection of his claim was unfair. He feels he shouldve been asked about 
previous legal expenses cover before his claim was declined and that treating 
customers fairly shouldnt be something thats done only after a customer raises 
concerns.
4. its unreasonable to expect him to fund expert evidence and the solicitors legal 
opinion of the claim should be appealed.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
acknowledged that the policy information regarding helplines was misleading, but she didnt 
think Mr M had been disadvantaged by it. And as hed been compensated for the delays by 
the helpline itself, she didnt think Amtrust needed to do anything more.
In regard to the claims decision, our investigator was satisfied Amtrust were entitled to 
decline the claim based on the policy terms. And that it acted reasonably by reconsidering 
the matter when Mr M expressed concern. She also felt it was fair for it to rely on the legal 
advice provided and as this didnt support the claim, it was fair for Amtrust to decline funding.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. And in September 2020, I issued a 
provisional decision, which said:
Claims helpline
The legal expenses insurance policy booklet refers to a claims helpline which is available 
24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It says that to make a claim, policyholders should call the 
claims helpline and if their problem is covered, theyll be provided with a claim form. And if 
their problem isnt covered, the helpline may be able to provide assistance under a privately 
funded arrangement.
The policy booklet also refers to a legal helpline as a 24-hour advisory service for 
telephone advice on any personal legal problem. A different contact number is provided for 
both helplines.
This does imply that the claims helpline and the legal helpline are separate services offered 
by the policy. But both numbers go through to the legal helpline, whos confirmed that it cant 
offer advice on policy coverage or make policy decisions  which is contrary to what the 
policy booklet suggests.
So I can understand Mr Ms frustration when he contacted what he thought was the claims 
helpline only to be told that it couldnt help him with his claim. Its clear the information is 
misleading and Amtrust may want to review how it describes the services it offers.
Mr M says he wants to be compensated for the misleading advertising with a refund of his 
premiums. But for me to uphold this complaint and award Mr M compensation, I need to be 
satisfied that the misleading information caused either a financial loss or distress and 
inconvenience to the extent that compensation would be appropriate.Mr M hasnt been charged an additional premium for the claims helpline. And Im not aware 
of any other financial loss he may have suffered due to the absence of one. And whilst I do 
understand Mr Ms annoyance over the misleading information within his policy, Im not 
persuaded the impact on him has been to the extent that compensation is warranted.
Helplines service issues
Mr M called the legal helpline four times over a two-day period. He was on hold for a total of 
five hours and 20 minutes, which has been confirmed by the legal helplines own records. 
None of his calls were answered so he left voicemails requesting a call back. This took place 
approximately three days later.
The legal helpline is a service provided by Amtrust under its policy. Whilst it is administered 
by a law firm on its behalf, Amtrust are ultimately responsible for the service it provides. So I 
wouldve expected it to have taken responsibility for what went wrong here.
Instead, I can see that the law firm took ownership of the complaint and investigated the 
issues internally. They offered £200 compensation in full and final settlement for the trouble 
and upset Mr M experienced and gave him the opportunity to refer his complaint to Legal 
Ombudsman should he choose not to accept it.
Its not clear whether Mr M would be eligible to bring a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman 
given that he hadnt entered into any contract or retainer with the law firm. And he was only 
contacting them for help with a claim  a service they later confirmed they didnt offer. But 
Im mindful that Mr M accepted the offer in full and final settlement, a condition of which 
meant that he wouldnt refer his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman.
From the information Ive seen, I think the compensation Mr M received is in line with what I 
wouldve recommended Amtrust pay for the impact of what happened. So whilst I think it 
shouldve been Amtrust that took responsibility for the poor service provided on its helpline, 
Mr M shouldnt be compensated twice for the same mistake. As hes already received fair 
compensation for this issue, I dont think Amtrust need to do anything more.
Claims decision  date of incident
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms legal expenses policy says it will cover contract disputes 
defined as a breach of a contract [you] have forbuying or renting goods or services for 
[your] private use. It goes on to say it wont cover claimswhere the breach of contract 
occurred before [you] purchased this insurance.
Amtrust says any breach of contract by the surveyor wouldve occurred when they reported 
the square footage of Mr Ms property incorrectly. This wouldve been in 2014, when they 
provided the report which was before Mr M took out his policy. Whilst thats not incorrect, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for it to also consider Mr Ms date of knowledge of any 
breach of contract.
It is of course right that the policy should only cover unforeseen risks and should not be used 
to cover claims that a policyholder knew or thought would arise and for the purpose of which 
they took out the policy. However, there is no suggestion of that here. Mr M has shown that it 
was the recent report from an estate agent which caused him to become aware of the 
potential breach, which happened within the policy period.When rejecting Mr Ms claim, Amtrust directed him to any previous legal expenses insurance 
provider. I think it was reasonable to expect Mr M to make enquiries to determine if he had a 
policy more suitable to cover this claim. But Amtrust didnt make it clear that Mr M could
come back to them if he did have cover or if the previous insurer declined his claim.
After raising concerns, Amtrust ultimately agreed that it will cover the claim under its treating 
customers fairly policy. But treating customers fairly isnt a separate policy or something that 
can be done as an afterthought when a customer complains. Its a requirement under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and 
should be adhered to at the time of considering a claim, not afterwards. 
ICOBS requires insurers to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its customer. It also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. By 
declining Mr Ms claim outright without establishing the position on continuous cover and Mr 
Ms date of knowledge, I dont think Amtrust dealt with this claim fairly or within the best 
interests of its customer.
That said, Amtrust did agree to cover the claim within five days of its initial rejection. So 
whilst I think it shouldve done more at the outset, this didnt cause any significant delay in 
the progress of the claim. And as the claim was later accepted, theres nothing more Amtrust 
needs to do here.
Claims decision  prospects and proportionality
It is a requirement of Mr Ms policy that any intended claim has reasonable prospects of 
success  which is defined in the policy as a more than 50% chance of winning the case 
and achieving a positive outcome. In addition, the policy requires the claim to be 
proportionate to pursue  which means the costs to pursue it should not outweigh the 
amount of money in dispute.
These policy terms arent unusual in legal expenses policies, and we dont think theyre 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the 
cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs 
incurred. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it 
has obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance 
on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.
In this case, Amtrust obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion, that 
based on the information available, the claim doesnt enjoy reasonable prospects and isnt 
proportionate to pursue. Theyve said Mr M can obtain expert evidence to support his claim 
which may alter their legal opinion, but this would be at his own cost.
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-reasoned. 
And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Amtrust shouldnt rely on it. Rather its up to Mr M to obtain a contrary 
legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own cost if he wants to challenge this further. If 
such an opinion is supportive then Amtrust should reconsider the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M didnt agree with what I said, and hes raised the following points:he was charged an additional premium for the legal expenses cover. And one of the 
reasons he took out the policy was for the benefit of the 24/7 legal and claims 
helpline.
whilst the law firm has compensated him for the time he spent on hold, he hasnt 
been compensated for the misleading information in the policy.
selling a misleading product is very serious and I should reconsider my conclusion on 
this point, given the significant distress caused from finding out an advertised service 
didnt exist.
giving the insurer credit for honouring the claim is disingenuous as it was only after 
many phone calls and pushing very hard to speak with management that it eventually 
agreed to do so. A lay person may not have had the same outcome, and its 
disappointing that I havent highlighted this as a significant area of concern. 
Amtrust didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as set out in my provisional decision. I 
recognise the strength of feeling Mr M has for this matter, and I know this outcome will be 
disappointing to him. So Ill address his points below.
Firstly, I should point out that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of 
financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is limited to 
looking into the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint and the impact Amtrusts 
actions have had on him personally. 
So whilst I note Mr Ms points that Amtrusts conduct on claims generally is a significant area 
of concern and that selling a misleading product is very serious, these are wider issues that 
fall outside the remit of our investigations and I wont be commenting on them. If he has 
concerns over how Amtrust conducts itself, he can raise this to the FCA and if they consider 
it necessary, they will complete their own investigations.
Ive thought about Mr Ms point that he paid an additional premium for the legal expenses 
cover, which included both a claims and legal helpline. And I dont disagree with him. But as 
I said in my provisional decision, Mr M hasnt been charged an additional premium for the 
claims helpline specifically. So Im not satisfied that hes suffered a loss as a result of not 
having access to one. Hes had access to the legal expenses cover itself, and the legal 
helpline. So Im not persuaded that hes entitled to a refund of premiums. 
Mr M also says that the 24/7 claims and legal helpline was one of the reasons he took out 
the policy. If Mr M believes he was mis-sold the policy, hed need to raise a complaint to the 
business who sold it to him. As Amtrust arent involved in the sale process, I dont intend to 
comment on this point. 
Mr M feels that he should be compensated for the distress he experienced when finding out 
that the claims helpline didnt exist. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr M wouldve reasonably experienced anything more than general frustration and annoyance, for which I 
dont consider compensation to be appropriate.
And lastly, Mr M says that its ingenuous to give Amtrust credit for eventually accepting the 
claim when he had to push very hard to get it to do so. Im satisfied that Ive made it very 
clear in my provisional decision that Amtrust hasnt acted appropriately on Mr Ms claim and 
in accordance with ICOBS. 
But our service doesnt award compensation to fine or punish a business. Compensation is 
given in recognition of the impact a business actions has had, taking into account what the 
business has already done to rectify any wrongdoing and how long it took it to do so. In this 
case, Amtrust agreed to cover Mr Ms claim within five days of its initial rejection. So I 
consider any impact to be minimal. And Im not recommending that it pay compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman