DRN-2977167
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way in which PRA Group (UK) Limited have contacted him 
to collect a debt.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit debt that was sold to PRA Group.
In September 2020, PRA Group spoke with Mr S. He explained he was in difficulties and 
was not in a position to make repayments. So PRA Group agreed to put the account on hold 
for 90 days and then get back in touch after that to see if things had changed.
In December 2020, PRA Group resumed trying to get in touch with Mr S, primarily by email 
and text message. They didnt get a response. In March 2021, its recorded that Mr S 
unsubscribed his email address, so PRA Group tried getting in touch primarily by phone 
instead. The calls were not answered.
In June 2021, Mr S called PRA Group and explained he was struggling in regard to his 
mental health and their calls were making things worse, though he was not able to discuss 
further details about his condition at that point. He explained he felt harassed by PRA 
Groups calls and would prefer contact to be by email only from then on. 
PRA Group agreed to remove Mr Ss phone number from their systems and to only contact 
him by email as hed prefer. They also transferred his account to a specialised support team 
in view of his mental health situation. They said they were sorry hed felt harassed and that 
wasnt their intention. They said they were trying to work with him to understand his situation 
and find a sustainable way forward.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. While they 
understood Mr Ss perspective and how difficult things had been for him, they hadnt found 
PRA Groups contact to be excessive. They explained PRA Group had a genuine reason to 
contact him about a debt he owed. They found that PRA Group had acted appropriately in 
putting things on hold at first, and then in changing the way they communicated when Mr S 
made them aware of the stress that phone calls caused for him.
Mr S didnt agree. He said PRA Group had phoned him at all hours of the day and, taking 
into account his mental health situation, it amounted to harassment. He asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr S has been going through a truly tough time, and so I appreciate 
where hes coming from, and I appreciate that he wouldnt want to add to his already 
considerable stresses.
PRA Group were collecting a genuine account, so they did have a genuine reason to be 
contacting Mr S. But Ive thought carefully about the way in which they contacted him, 
especially in regard to what they knew about his mental health situation. Ive gone through 
the full log of the contact between PRA Group and Mr S.
When Mr S first let PRA Group know he was struggling, they agreed to put things on hold for 
a fair amount of time, giving him some breathing space. And that seems like a reasonable 
thing to do. They explained theyd get back in touch after this to review his situation, which 
they then did.
At first, PRA Group contacted Mr S by email and text message. And looking at the content of 
such messages, they seem to have been reasonable. For example, PRA Group said that 
they wanted to make sure Mr S was aware of his options, that they could set up affordable 
and flexible repayment plans even for low amounts, and that Mr S could get in touch with 
them in a number of different ways if hed like to chat.
It looks like PRA Group received a request to unsubscribe Mr Ss email address, so they 
then tried phoning him  which seems reasonable. At that point, Mr S had not yet asked 
them to not phone him, and had not yet explained that he found these calls distressing. And 
again, PRA Group did have a genuine reason to be getting in touch with Mr S.
During this period, PRA Group did call Mr S quite often. But looking at all the call attempts 
involved, these were at reasonable hours, and I dont think they were so often that Id 
consider them excessive. And by then, PRA Group hadnt heard from Mr S in half a year.
Once Mr S made it clear to PRA Group that the phone calls were causing him distress, they 
removed his phone number from their systems, apologised, agreed to stop calling him, 
checked which method of contact hed prefer and agreed to stick to it, and transferred his 
account to a specialist support team. And that seems reasonable to me. Since then, I can 
see that PRA Group have indeed stopped calling Mr S and have substantially reduced how 
often they contact him in general.
So while I do understand that Mr S found this matter most distressing  particularly in view of 
his mental health situation  I think that PRA Group have already acted appropriately to put 
things right once they became aware of how this was affecting him.
I hope I can also reassure Mr S that when it comes to repaying the debt, PRA Group have a 
duty to treat him fairly. So any repayments should be based on what he can actually afford, 
and if hes in financial difficulties then Id expect PRA Group to deal with such issues 
positively and sympathetically. PRA Group have said there are a number of options they can 
explore to deal with Mr Ss debt  which may even include stopping all collection. But it will 
depend on his full situation, so Mr S may want to get back in touch with PRA Group to go 
through his circumstances and see was assistance they can give him. Ill also send Mr S the 
details for charities who give free help and advice about dealing with debts. And Mr S can 
always get back in touch with us for a new case if he later feels that PRA Group arent taking 
his situation into account when working out how to deal with the debt.But as things stand, I dont think PRA Group have done anything substantially wrong in this 
particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman