DRN-1275891
 
The complaint
The complaint is about the cancellation of Company Es Professional Indemnity insurance by 
Hiscox Underwriting Limited. Mr B, the director of Company E, says that Hiscox unfairly 
refused to renew the policy and that has caused considerable uncertainty and 
inconvenience.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them at length 
here. Briefly, Company E took a Professional Indemnity insurance policy with Hiscox on a 
continuous cover basis since 2015. It appears that in late 2018 the company made a claim 
under the policy, which was accepted by Hiscox. 
In August 2019, Hiscox told Mr B that it would not be renewing the policy when the current 
period of insurance ended on 13 September 2019. It said that this was because, in its view, 
some of Company Es work required a higher specialism from its insurer which it was unable 
to provide. This was followed by a series of exchanges between Mr B and Hiscox and 
eventually the policy ended on 20 September 2019.
Mr B is unhappy with the way this matter was handled by Hiscox. He says that his company 
has since obtained a Professional Indemnity insurance policy with another insurer but only 
from 1 October 2019. He says that because there was no cover between 20 September and 
1 October, the company had to stop its work during this period. Mr B is also concerned about 
the potential impact the break in cover could have on his companys future claims, 
particularly in relation to any liability that might arise from events prior to 20 September 
2019. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said that Hiscox could decide whether 
or not it wanted to continue to offer cover to Company E. However he said that the 
cancellation was handled poorly by Hiscox causing inconvenience to the company. So he 
said that Hiscox should pay £200 by way of compensation. 
Hiscox did not agree. Mr B made a detailed submission reiterating the complaint. He said 
that the preferred outcome to Company E is for Hiscox to extend the cover to 1 October 
2019 so there is continuity in cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was sold on a continuous basis in 2015. This meant that the policy would run 
continuously until it was cancelled by either Hiscox or the company. But this provision was 
amended in 2018. As a result, the policy came to an end in September 2018. It was replaced by a series of individual policies, each lasting for a period of 12 months, and as soon as one 
policy ended the new one would begin immediately, ensuring that cover continued. 
However, the parties could still cancel the policy at any time. The general terms and 
conditions of the relevant policy stated: You or we can cancel the policy by giving 30 days 
written notice. 
Initially there was some confusion as to whether the policy was cancelled or not renewed but 
ultimately it was clarified by Hiscox that it was cancelling the policy, in accordance with the 
above terms.
Mr B has said that Hiscox acted unfairly to Company E by cancelling the policy because it 
continued to provide cover to other professional firms that operated in the same market as 
Company E. However, as explained by the investigator, there could be several factors 
affecting the underwriting decision and they vary in each case. In this instance, Hiscox has 
explained why it was unable to continue to offer cover to Company E and that doesnt 
appear unreasonable to me.
Given that Hiscox was able to cancel the policy, I have considered whether it gave the 30 
days notice as required. Here also I think there was some confusion initially. However, 
following Hiscoxs email of 21 August confirming the cancellation, Mr B asked that the cover 
continue until 20 September instead of the initially intended date of 14 September so that 
Company E could have the 30 days notice. Hiscox agreed to it and the policy was ultimately 
cancelled on 20 September. As such, I consider that Company E did have the due notice 
period. 
Mr B has suggested that the notice period should only run from the date of the final response 
from Hiscox about his complaint, which was 10 September 2019. But I dont think that should 
be the case. Hiscox had already given its notice of cancellation and its final response 
essentially re-confirmed the position.
I appreciate Mr Bs concern about the gap in cover between 20 September and 1 October 
and the potential impact the break in cover could have on his companys future claims, 
particularly in relation to any liability that might arise from events prior to 20 September 
2019. I understand his request that Hiscox should extend the cover to 1 October 2019 so 
there is continuity in cover. 
However, Hiscox had given due notice to Company E and it had said that it was unwilling to 
extend the cover after the notice period had ended. For the reasons given, I am not 
persuaded that I should ask Hiscox to extend the cover. 
Turning to the compensation recommended by the investigator, I agree that initially Hiscox 
caused a lot of confusion by not communicating its decision clearly. This has been explained 
in detail by the investigator and so I wont repeat all the points here. 
Hiscox did not make it clear whether it was cancelling the policy or not renewing it (which 
was not allowed under the terms). It also did not make clear from when it was cancelling the 
policy, or the notice period. It gave different dates to Company E until finally agreeing to the 
end date of 20 September. I also dont think that initially it clearly explained the reasons for 
its cancellation. 
All of this meant that Company E had to spend a lot of time with Hiscox trying to understand 
what exactly it was trying to do and why. Whilst Hiscox still ultimately gave the required 
notice period, this did cause a lot of inconvenience to Company E. I have carefully considered what Hiscox has said in this regard, but I think the investigators recommendation 
that it should pay £200 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Hiscox 
Underwriting Limited should pay Company E £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman