DRN-3572385
The complaint
Ms D complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly terminated her car finance 
agreement. 
What happened
In August 2019, Ms D entered into a 60 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
In April 2020, she was involved in a car accident. Ms D told Moneybarn her insurer deemed 
the car a total loss. Moneybarn contacted the insurer to ask for the settlement to be paid 
directly to them.
As the car was considered a total loss, a default notice was issued to Ms D in April 2020. 
She was told she needed to settle the balance of £12,443 by 14 May 2020. Around the same 
time, she applied for a payment deferral as she was experiencing financial difficulty due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. This was agreed by Moneybarn for one month. 
In July and August 2020, Moneybarn sent further requests to the insurer for the settlement to 
be paid. As Moneybarn received no response, they decided to terminate the agreement in 
September 2020. Moneybarn told Ms D she would be required to return the car and pay the 
outstanding balance. 
Ms D complained. She said she had cancelled the insurance claim and had arranged for the 
car to be repaired herself shortly after the accident in April 2020. She said the car had been 
insured and MOTd. She also said she had tried to contact Moneybarn on many occasions 
but without success. 
Moneybarn said they had no knowledge of the same prior to the termination and they had 
correctly followed the terms of the agreement. They said once terminated, it couldnt be 
reversed and Ms D hadnt provided evidence to demonstrate the car was no longer a total 
loss. 
The car was collected in June 2021 and sold for £2,650, the net proceeds were paid towards 
the agreement. However Moneybarn said Ms D was required to pay the shortfall balance of 
£10,145.
Our investigator recommended the case wasnt upheld. They concluded Moneybarn had 
acted fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement as they werent told the insurance 
claim had been cancelled and the car repaired. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive reviewed the terms of the agreement. In summary it says in the event 
the car is considered a total loss by an insurer, all unpaid payments and the total amount 
payable under the agreement must be paid. It goes on to say any insurance settlements 
must be paid to Moneybarn within a reasonable period of time and this would be offset 
against any balance owed. If this money wasnt received, Moneybarn is entitled to recover 
the balance from the consumer following the issue of notice required by law. 
Ms D told Moneybarn in April 2020, the car had been considered a total loss by her insurer. 
Based on the above terms, this meant the total agreement amount became payable. As I 
would expect, Moneybarn contacted the insurer to ask that the settlement payment be paid. 
Having read the correspondence, I can also see they said they dont allow the customer to 
retain the salvage of the car unless the agreement is settled in full. I wouldve expected 
Moneybarn to have clearly explained the above terms to Ms D and what it would mean in 
terms of the agreement but there is no evidence they done so. 
Moneybarn sent a default notice in April 2020. Having read it, it makes it clear that if the car 
had been considered a total loss, the agreement would be terminated as there was no 
longer an asset to secure the agreement to. It stated the balance to settle the agreement in 
full was due by 14 May 2020. For the reasons explained above, I consider Moneybarn acted 
reasonably and in line with the terms by issuing a default notice and requiring the payment of 
the full balance. 
In response, Ms D contacted Moneybarn to ask about a payment deferral and asked them to 
contact her by phone as she needed advice about the car. Their system notes show an entry 
was inputted by them to say the car was a total loss, a default notice had been issued and a 
payment plan could be set up to pay the balance. I wouldve expected Moneybarn to have 
made this clear to Ms D and responded to her requests but there is no indication they did so. 
Equally, there is no evidence Ms D told Moneybarn that the insurance claim had been 
cancelled and the car had been repaired in response to the default notice. 
Matters were confused further by Moneybarn agreeing to a month payment deferral. Given 
the default notice, its unclear why that was agreed. I wouldve expected them to have 
identified a default notice had been issued and explained to Ms D to reiterate why a payment 
deferral would not have been appropriate in the circumstances. 
In June 2020, there is a further conversation between Ms D and Moneybarn but this appears 
to centre on the payment deferral as Ms D asked for it to be extended. Based on what Ms D 
has told our service, the car had been repaired by that time but there is no evidence to 
suggest she made Moneybarn aware of the same. Equally, at the time of the call, I can see 
there was a system note to say if Ms D wanted to retain the salvage of the car, she must 
settle the agreement in full but this doesnt appear to have been communicated to Ms D. I 
consider this a missed opportunity by both parties to discuss the car and the agreement. 
Moneybarn sent further emails to the insurer in July and August 2020 asking that the 
settlement payment be paid but no response was received. As it had been many months 
since the default deadline had passed and the agreement hadnt been settled, Im satisfied Moneybarn acted fairly in deciding to terminate the agreement based on the information they 
knew at the time. 
I note it was only after the termination in September 2020 that Ms D brought to Moneybarns 
attention that the car had been repaired. They requested evidence of the same but there is 
no indication this was provided by Ms D. Our service also requested copies of the same but 
it hasnt been forthcoming. 
Following the termination, Moneybarn gave Ms D a number of options including one that 
meant she could keep the car. They said:
Entering into a consent order with us, which is a payment plan sealed by the court in which 
the arrears and court costs will be paid on top of the normal monthly instalment over the next 
12 months. This will allow you to keep the vehicle as long as all the payments are made on 
time
In the circumstances, I find Moneybarn acted reasonably by providing such an option as it 
wouldve allowed Ms D to keep the car and set up a payment plan. As Ms D didnt indicate 
she wanted to do the same, I find it was fair for Moneybarn to proceed to collect and sell the 
car. As I would expect, the net sales proceeds were applied thereby reducing the 
outstanding balance. I consider this fair in the circumstances. 
Based on what Ive seen, I find there were faults by both parties. Moneybarn missed 
opportunities to discuss the situation with Ms D to reiterate why the agreement would come 
to an end despite her repeated requests for them to contact her. Ms D failed to let 
Moneybarn know that she had cancelled the insurance claim and repaired the car. 
However given Ms D had initially told them the car was a total loss I believe the onus was on 
her to let Moneybarn know that she had cancelled the insurance claim, arranged for the car 
to be repaired and provided evidence of the same. I consider that the overriding issue here. 
Despite receiving a default letter setting out Moneybarns intentions to terminate the 
agreement and the deadline being May 2020 to satisfy it, Moneybarn were only made aware 
of the cancelled insurance claim once the agreement had terminated. 
Taking everything into account, I believe Moneybarn acted fairly and in line with the terms in 
deciding to terminate the agreement. 
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Ms D and I sympathise with the situation she now 
finds herself in. I would like to remind Moneybarn, if she is still experiencing financial 
difficulty I expect them to treat her with due consideration and forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman