DRN-4425534
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the handling of a claim under her boiler and central heating
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
In July 2022, Mrs B contacted British Gas as there was water dripping from a valve in her 
boiler. An engineer attended and said a part was needed and made an appointment for 25 
July 2022 to fit it. However, the engineer that attended on 25 July 2022 didnt have the spare 
part and didnt know why he had been sent out. Another appointment was made for 3 August
2022 but again that engineer said he didnt have the part and he couldnt do the job. Another
appointment was made for 19 August 2022. Mrs B contacted British Gas to make sure
whoever attended came with the part. However, she says that again the engineer attended
without the part and didnt know why he had been sent out. The part was finally replaced on
5 September 2022. The job notes from that day say that a new valve was fitted but the
engineer could not get the boiler working and Mrs B was without heating or hot water.
British Gas said that there was a problem with the circulation of water through the central
heating system and that a powerflush was needed. British Gas came to do the powerflush
but couldnt do it because of the type of cylinder Mrs B had. British Gas said that Mrs B
would have to pay for a new cylinder to be fitted. She was quoted £2,367.25 for this but
British Gas also offered a discount of just over £473, so she was charged £1,893.82.
On 10 November 2022, British Gas installed the new water cylinder and the powerflush was
done. British Gas said it would do the powerflush free as a gesture of goodwill but that it
should have been chargeable. 
Mrs B says the engineer left wires dangling; had removed the kickboard of the plinth that the 
cylinder sat on and put it in their rubbish; had not put floorboards and carpet back properly 
and had left rubbish at the property. Mrs B also reported that the timer for the heating did not 
work properly.
British Gas collected the rubbish and on 18 November 2022 it attended to fit a new
programmer (although I understand a second visit was needed as it didnt work initially).
The boiler was finally fixed and working after this but the floorboards, plinth and wires were
still not sorted out.
Mrs B is very unhappy with the service provided by British Gas. I have considered everything
she has said but have summarised the main points below:
At one of the first visits about the leak, she was asked to cut a hole in a kitchen unit,
so an engineer could access a pipe that was not necessary.
She agreed to the new water tank as she was told she had no choice but has since
checked the policy terms and it should have been covered under the policy.
There was no problem with the tank previously, the issue was a leak from the boiler.
She was without heating and hot water (having to use the immersion heater) from 5
September to 10 November 2022, which caused a great deal of inconvenience and
meant she incurred £200 in additional electricity costs.
Wires were left in a mess and needed cable tying together.
A floorboard was lifted to fit a pipe but was not repositioned correctly and as it is
immediately outside the bedroom door, was a trip hazard.
An appointment was made for 17 March 2023 to sort these issues out and this was
confirmed twice but on the morning of the appointment she was told it was cancelled.
After complaining, the appointment did go ahead that afternoon. However, the
engineer that arrived wasnt able to complete the job. He tidied up some wires and
cable ties but didnt sort out the floorboards or plinth.
Her husband wasted a weeks worth of holiday waiting for engineers that either
couldnt do the job or didnt turn up.
The delays in repairing the boiler and the way the property was left has caused
considerable difficulty for her and her husband and she asks for compensation.
In January 2023 she was chased by debt collectors for the cost of installation of the
cylinder.
British Gas says it did not do anything wrong but offered £200 compensation for the
inconvenience caused by multiple appointments and for a call not being returned to Mrs B.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He upheld the complaint in part as he
thought British Gas should pay an additional £100 compensation but he did not think it
should have covered the cost of the replacement of the cylinder.
Mrs B did not accept the Investigators assessment.
British Gas did not accept the Investigators assessment either. It said it was necessary for
the old cylinder to be replaced with an unvented cylinder in order for the powerflush to be
carried out, and the discount given on the cylinder and the powerflush being carried our free
of charge (which can cost up to £800) and the £200 compensation is fair and reasonable
and takes into consideration, any distress and inconvenience caused. It doesnt therefore
agree that an additional £100 is due.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the matter in September 2023, the main part of which is copied 
below: 
Policy terms
Mrs Bs policy provides cover for boiler and central heating breakdowns. It says:
Boiler breakdown
Whats included
 All repairs to:
 a single natural gas or Liquid Petroleum Gas boiler or warm-air unit on your
property, thats designed for home use and has a heat output capacity of up 
to 70kW...
Central Heating breakdown
Whats included
 All repairs to the heat and hot water system on your property, for example: expansion tank, radiators, bypass and radiator valves (including HIVE 
radiator
valves);
 warm-air vents;
 cylinders and any immersion heater and its wired in timer switch; and
 the pipes that connect the central heating system
 A replacement of parts of your central heating if we cant repair them.
Both sections of the policy also contain the same exclusion, which says it will not 
cover:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you 
before that you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas 
Powerflush, or a similar process, but you havent done so.
The policy also says:
British Gas Powerflush
Over time, gas central heating systems build up sludge that can block or 
narrow your pipes, radiators and boiler parts.
British Gas Powerfush is our way of removing that sludge from your system.
Well tell you if your system needs a powerflush to work properly. Youll need 
to pay for it separately  it isnt included in your cover.
Some repairs were carried out to the boiler but British Gas said the reason it still 
didnt work after replacing the water valve is because there was a blockage in the 
system. The only notes regarding this are the engineers handwritten job sheet that 
says the boiler was not firing up.
I have set out extracts from some of the job sheets left with Mrs B below:
5 September 2022: replaced water valve and then in other comments section of 
what was needed says fit pump blockage in system rebooked to try flush.
30 September 2022: system = no circulation = therefore boiler wont fire cant be 
tested.
10 November 2022: parts fitted today unvented cylinder valves filter and pump.
Ive not seen any evidence that British Gas took water samples or any other evidence 
that the only way of fixing the issue and getting the boiler to fire up was by way of a 
powerflush. It seems a new pump was also needed on 10 November 2022. 
British Gas says the powerflush would normally be chargeable but it agreed to do it 
free of charge as a gesture of goodwill. However, I think the policy terms regarding 
the powerflush quoted above to be contradictory. The policy clearly provides for 
repairs as a result of sludgeprovided there has not been advice to have a powerflush 
previously. There is no evidence Mrs B was ever advised to have a powerflush done 
previously. So it seems to me that if the boiler was not working because of a 
blockage of sludge (which as mentioned above has not been proven) then this would 
be covered. I dont think it is clear enough how these two policy terms would work in 
practice together and this might be why British Gas agreed to do the powerflush free of charge. In any event, from my experience a powerflush is not the only way of 
resolving a blockage and, as stated above, failure of the boiler due to a blockage of
sludge would be covered.
British Gas also said that the powerflush could not be done because of the type of 
cylinder Mrs B had and so this needed to be changed.
From the evidence it seems to me that British Gas opted to do a powerflush in order 
to try and resolve the cause that it says was stopping the boiler from working. There 
is certainly not enough evidence to establish that this was the only way of getting the 
boiler working. It does not seem fair and reasonable under those circumstances to 
me to require a policyholder to then pay for the replacement of a cylinder  that was 
not damaged or failing in any way - in order to do the repair that way, when there 
likely would have been other options available that would have been covered under 
the policy.
There is no evidence that there was any other repair option offered to Mrs B and that 
she chose to pay privately for the new cylinder instead. She may have agreed to pay 
for it at the time but this was because she was seemingly told there was no other 
option. 
And, even if the powerflush was the only way to repair the boiler, the policy terms are 
not sufficiently clear and I think most people would reasonably expect that any work 
required to repair the boiler would be covered. The central heating breakdown part of 
the policy (quoted above) states that replacement of parts of the central heating 
system  which would include cylinders  is covered if British Gas cant repair them. 
So if the powerflush were the only way to repair the boiler and the powerflush could 
not be done without changing the cylinder then it seems to me they are all steps in 
the repair of the boiler, which should be covered under the policy.
British Gas has also said that the new cylinder was an upgrade, which is why it was
chargeable. This is disputed by Mrs B anyway, as she says she would have wanted 
to retain the immersion heater function. But if it was needed (upgrade or not) in order 
to get the boiler working again then I consider it should have been covered. And 
British Gas has not established that this was the only possible option or that Mrs B 
chose this option.
I therefore consider that British Gas should reimburse Mrs B any of the cost of the 
cylinder  [she has] already paid and ensure she is not charged any more.
I also consider that some additional compensation is warranted to reflect the trouble 
this matter has caused to Mrs B. There were several wasted appointments and 
numerous phone calls chasing British Gas. Mrs B and her husband were also with 
heating and hot water for considerably longer than should have been the case, if the 
repairs had been dealt with in a reasonable time.
Mrs B was then convinced to agree to replacement of the water cylinder, which she 
says she didnt want and which means she now has no immersion heater back up if 
there are any future problems with the boiler. In addition, the work replacing the 
cylinder was not completed satisfactorily and she has had a number of further visits 
and calls in order to resolve those issues. Mrs B has also received debt collection 
letters which would have been distressing Im sure. In my opinion, having taken 
everything into account, an additional payment of £400 is appropriate compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter, and £200 for the additional 
electricity charges that Mrs B incurred due to the delay in repairing the boiler. For the avoidance of doubt this is in addition to the £200 already offered, so a total 
compensation payment of £800.
It is not clear if the woodwork issues at Mrs Bs home have been rectified yet. I would 
invite both parties to provide an update on this in response to my provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the
following:
oReimburse Mrs B any monies she has paid for the replacement cylinder, 
together with 8% simple interest per annum form the date she made any such 
payment to the date of reimbursement.
oEnsure that any outstanding amount billed for the replacement cylinder is 
written-off.
oPay Mrs B £200 for the additional electricity charges she incurred due to 
delays in repairing the boiler.
oPay Mrs B a total of £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of this matter. This includes the £200 British Gas 
already offered, so if that has already been paid, it only needs to pay the 
additional £400 now.
Responses to my provisional findings
I invited both parties tot respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mrs B has confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. She has also confirmed that the 
woodwork repairs have been completed satisfactorily. 
British Gas has confirmed it has no points to raise in response to my provisional decision, 
save to also state that it believes the woodwork issues have been resolved satisfactorily. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased to note that the outstanding repairs have been completed to Mrs Bs 
satisfaction. As neither party has provided any further information or evidence in relation to 
the other matters, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. I therefore remain of 
the opinion that British Gas should have covered the replacement of the cylinder under the 
policy and so should reimburse the amount Mrs B has paid towards this. I also remain of the 
opinion that compensation is due for the handling of the claim and the electricity charges   
Mrs B incurred, as set out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs B any monies she has paid for the replacement cylinder, together
with 8% simple interest per annum from the date she made any such payment to the
date of reimbursement.Ensure that any outstanding amount billed for the replacement cylinder is written-off.
Pay Mrs B £200 for the additional electricity charges she incurred due to delays in
repairing the boiler.
Pay Mrs B a total of £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
by its handling of this matter. This includes the £200 British Gas already offered, so
if that has already been paid, it only needs to pay the additional £400 now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman