DRN-3660387
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Hereford Pension, Investment and Mortgage 
Centre LLP (HPIMC) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S says he approached HPIMC on the recommendation of a colleague. Mr S has said he 
and his colleague had both left his former employer after having worked there for a similar 
period of time and his colleague had suggested speaking to HPIMC to discuss what options 
could be available for his DB scheme benefits.
In September 2006, HPIMC completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S 
circumstances and objectives. It recorded that he was 28, single with no dependents. Hed 
been working in his current role for less than a month. He lived in accommodation provided 
through his employment so had low outgoings. No assets were recorded and likewise Mr S 
was said to have no outstanding debts or liabilities.
Mr S DB pension benefits were noted as his only pension provisions at the time. They 
represented just over nine and a half years worth of service with his previous employer and 
would provide a guaranteed, escalating income in retirement, as well as a tax-free sum on 
retirement. The normal scheme retirement age was recorded as age 60. The estimated 
annual pension Mr S would be due, at the time of the fact find, was noted as £3,364. And the 
benefits were recorded as having a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £26,881.
HPIMC recorded that Mr S planned to retire at some time between age 55 and 60  
although it also noted he wanted an investment term to age 60. Mr S expected to need an 
annual income in retirement of approximately £25,000. HPIMC also noted that he would like 
to leave an inheritance to his family. In a notes section of the fact find it said that Mr S 
wanted to control the investment choices of his scheme. But later, when asked what level of 
involvement Mr S wanted to have it recorded his answer as low.
HPIMC also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high. 
In October 2006, HPIMC arranged a transfer value analysis (TVAS). This said that the DB 
scheme offered a pension of £3,449 per year and tax-free cash of £10,346 on retirement. 
Both of those figures were as of the time of the report and were subject to revaluation 
increases until retirement. The TVAS also included details of the critical yield  the growth 
rate required of a new pension to allow Mr S to purchase equivalent benefits to those hed 
be due under his existing scheme. This was recorded as being 9.2%.
On 16 January 2007, HPIMC advised Mr S to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest in specific funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr S wanted to control his investment and a personal pension 
provided greater fund choice. It noted his attitude to risk was high and said that he wanted to 
risk his benefits in the hope of good returns and the prospect of retiring early. And HPIMC 
felt the critical yield of 9.2% was achievable. It therefore recommended Mr S transfer to meet 
these objectives. The suitability report said that it was decided that it was appropriate for the 
term of the new pension contract to be to age 60. It was also agreed that HPIMC would 
actively manage the funds on Mr S behalf.
Mr S complained in 2018 to HPIMC. He said he felt hed been taken advantage of and the 
advice hed received was unsuitable. He said he was advised to take a high-risk investment 
without having the relevant knowledge or experience to understand what that means. He 
said he was also told that the new pension would achieve returns much higher than the DB 
scheme would increase by. But he believes these returns were unrealistic and, when also 
accounting for charges and their impact on growth, hed have been better off not 
transferring. Mr S added he also thought hed been given incorrect information about the 
death benefits that would be available through a personal pension.
HPIMC didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said the DB scheme didnt allow access before age 
60. And Mr S main objective at the time of the advice was to take control of the pension and 
invest so he could access it at age 55 or sooner if allowed. HPIMC felt it had carried out 
appropriate analysis, including identifying that Mr S had a high attitude to risk. And it was on 
this basis that it recommended the transfer, as it agreed and said it had made clear in the 
suitability report that if Mr S had a cautious attitude to risk, hed have been better off leaving 
the pension where it was. On the point of death benefits, HPIMC thought the information it 
had given around what these would be under a personal pension was correct. And it felt it 
had reiterated several times that the transfer could only be justified if Mr S had a high 
attitude to risk, so didnt agree Mr S wasnt aware of the risk involved. Overall, it felt the 
advice was appropriate based on his stated objectives.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. HPIMC initially said it felt that the complaint was 
not one that we could consider. It said it thought the complaint had been referred to us more 
than six months after it issued its final response. And the complaint was also brought more 
than six years after the advice was given, and HPIMC questioned why Mr S did not complain 
sooner, given hed been receiving annual summaries of his pension showing how it had 
performed. 
An Investigator considered the objection but said that they felt the complaint was one we 
could consider. They explained that the complaint had been referred to our service within six 
months of the final response being issued. And, while it had been brought more than six 
years after the advice was provided, he didnt think Mr S ought to have realised he may have 
had cause to complain significantly before he did so.
In June 2022, HPIMC said that it noted the Investigators opinion and comments and 
accepted that the complaint had been brought in time and was one that our service could 
consider.
The Investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. They said they felt it should be 
upheld and thought HPIMC should pay compensation in line with the regulators redress 
methodology for unsuitable DB transfer advice. In summary he thought it was always 
unlikely that Mr S would improve his pension benefits by transferring and so didnt think 
introducing significant additional risk for no improvement was appropriate. He also didnt 
think the other motives for transferring were strong enough to justify this and didnt think the 
transfer was likely to enable Mr S to realistically retire early  one of the stated objectives. 
So, he felt HPIMC shouldve advised him to remain in his DB scheme.HPIMC did not agree. It said that Mr S had been provided reports each year since the advice 
was given that demonstrated the critical yield was not being achieved. And based on this it 
said it again considered that the complaint had been brought too late. That notwithstanding it 
still believed the advice was suitable. It said it had clearly explained the risks of transferring 
to Mr S and he had understood this. It also reiterated he had been clear he was willing to 
accept high levels of risk and the DB scheme benefits were not important to him. So, it felt 
the advice was appropriate as it gave him the potential to improve his benefits, whereas 
remaining invested in the DB scheme wouldve guaranteed he wouldnt have been able to 
achieve the retirement income he thought he needed through that scheme.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He noted hed already given an 
opinion saying that he thought the complaint was one we could look into. And HPIMC had 
accepted this and indicated it consented to our investigation. In any event though he didnt 
think annual summaries of how the new pension arrangement was performing shouldve 
prompted Mr S to think that the advice provided to him wasnt in his interests  particularly 
given how long he still had to retirement. 
While HPIMC mayve set out that returns were not guaranteed, he didnt think this meant the 
advice to transfer was suitable. Particularly as it introduced significant risk but there was very 
little prospect of Mr S improving his retirement provisions.
As HPIMC did not agree with his findings though, the complaint was referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Can we consider this complaint?
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operate are set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set out 
the limits to what our service can and cant consider. One of the things these rules cover is 
whether the complaint has been brought in time.
There are several different rules relating to whether a complaint has been brought in time. 
But the two that have been mentioned during this complaint are that we generally cant 
consider a complaint referred;
more than six months after the respondent (HPIMC) issued its final response
more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later, more than three years 
after the person bringing the complaint knew  or ought reasonably to have been 
aware  they had cause to complain. 
If a complaint is brought outside of these time limits, wed be unable to consider it unless 
there are exceptional circumstances that explain why the person bringing the complaint 
didnt do so within the time limits or the respondent business consents.
Our Investigator issued an opinion on 22 June 2022, in which they said they thought the 
complaint had been brought within the time limits mentioned above  as it had been referred 
to us on the same day as HPIMCs final response  so within six months  and while it had 
been more than six years since the advice was given , he didnt think Mr S ought reasonably 
to have been aware he had cause to complain more than three years before he did.
In response to this opinion, on 30 June 2022, HPIMC said it accepts that this complaint 
has been brought in time and therefore one that your service can consider further and that it 
consider that this complaint can be dealt with.In my view, I think this indicates that, following the Investigator explaining their findings, 
HPIMC consented to our service considering this complaint.
DISP 2.8.2A says If a respondent consents to the Ombudsman considering a complaint in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.2 R (5), the respondent may not withdraw consent.
In response to our Investigators opinion about the merits of this complaint, HPIMC again 
raised that it thinks the complaint could potentially be time barred  one our service does 
not have jurisdiction to consider on the basis it has been referred too late. But as it has 
already, in my view, consented to us looking at the complaint, and this cant be withdrawn, I 
dont think there are further grounds to revisit whether this is a case that we can consider.
For completeness though, I have looked at the arguments made and, like our Investigator, 
Im of the opinion that this is a complaint that we can consider.
HPIMC issued its final response on 25 February 2019 and Mr S asked our service to 
consider the matter on the same day  so it was referred within six months of the final 
response.
The event complained about is the advice in 2007. And the complaint was referred to us 
more than six years after those events took place. But I havent seen anything that leads me 
to think Mr S ought to have been aware of having cause to complain more than three years 
before he did. 
Mr S appears to have initially raised concerns in August 2017 and asked for a copy of the 
information HPIMC held in relation to the advice  which was provided. Mr S has indicated it 
was upon receiving these documents he began to think something was wrong  which I think 
is reasonable. And a complaint was subsequently raised with HPIMC in December 2018 and 
referred to us in February 2019  within three years.
HPIMC has said that Mr S has received regular summaries in the years between the advice 
and him raising his concerns. And these made the performance of the new pension plan 
clear. So, Mr S ought to have known he had reason to complain. But I dont agree. While the 
summaries may have indicated that the pension had not yet achieved the growth that was 
hoped for, Mr S was at least 27 years from retirement at the time of the advice and still had a 
significant period until retirement on receipt of the summaries. And the period in question 
coincided with several significant market events  not least the financial crisis of 2008. I dont 
think this initial performance was enough to mean Mr S, who was an inexperienced investor, 
ought to have thought the advice he was given, by a professional adviser, was unsuitable or 
not in his best interests. So, I dont think the complaint has been brought more than three 
years after Mr S ought to have been aware of having reason to complain.
Was the advice provided suitable?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Among other requirements, the regulator at the time (the Financial Services Authority), under 
Conduct of Business 5.3.29G, specified the information a business should gather from the 
consumer and the DB scheme in order to assess suitability. It also said:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
And what this means is HPIMC should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr S was 28 at the time of the advice. HPIMC has said that Mr S had a firm intention to retire 
at age 55, and that this was more than an aspiration. But that isnt entirely reflected in the 
information from the time. The fact find noted that he would be looking to retire between 
ages 55-60. And went on to say he preferred an investment term to age 60. The suitability 
report also referred to Mr S hoping to be able to take retirement early and noted that the DB 
scheme didnt allow access prior to age 60, so one of the reasons for transferring was to 
potentially access the pension from age 55. But this also went on to say that, after 
discussing Mr S objectives, it was appropriate to consider an investment term to 60. Mr S 
may have expressed an interest in retiring early. But I think most customers would when 
asked. Given how far he was from retirement I dont think a definitive decision had been 
made about this  which I think is supported by evidence from the time, particularly the 
investment term to 60 being recommended. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ss benefits at age 60 was quoted as 9.2%. This 
compares with the discount rate of 6.6% per year for 31 years to retirement in this case. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I would note that the basis of this critical yield quoted is slightly unclear  whether this 
involved taking tax-free cash (TFC) from the new pension at retirement or not. The 
information from the DB scheme indicated that it provided a guaranteed tax-free sum in 
addition to the pension, without having to reduce the annual pension income. Whereas in a 
personal pension, the level of TFC taken depends on sacrificing a portion of ongoing 
income. And it is possible the true critical yield was therefore in fact higher, if this figure 
didnt account for also matching the guaranteed tax-free sum under the DB scheme.  That notwithstanding, Ive taking into account the quoted critical yield, discount rate and 
regulators projections, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S high 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. HPIMC said in the suitability report that it 
thought the critical yield was an achievable return. But I dont think this is supported by the 
available information. There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here I think Mr S was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring. 
HPIMC has pointed to Mr S high attitude to risk and him apparently not being concerned 
about potential losses to his pension fund. It has said it made it clear to Mr S that there was 
a risk the new pension may not achieve the required growth. And it has said that by not 
transferring he was guaranteed not to improve on his benefits. 
I can see from the suitability report that HPIMC did outline risks that the pension value and 
growth were not guaranteed. But warning of the risks doesnt mean that the advice to 
transfer was suitable. And while Mr S does appear, based on his answers to the risk profile 
questions to have been willing to take a high level of risk, this pension was, at the time, his 
only retirement provision. And so he arguably had a low capacity for losses. In any event 
though, HPIMCs role wasnt to facilitate something Mr S may have thought he wanted  to 
take risk. It was to advise him on what was in his interests.
HPIMC says that without transferring this pension would not have met his income needs in 
retirement. And there was a disparity between what the DB scheme was estimated to 
provide, and the £25,000 annual income Mr S indicated he expected to need. But again, I 
dont think by transferring he was likely to improve on DB scheme benefits. And based on 
the information in the TVAS report, I think it is entirely unrealistic to suggest that transferring 
meant that this pension fund couldve grown enough to meet those needs on its own.
Mr S wouldve always needed to use the benefits available under this pension in conjunction 
with further benefits he continued to build over the remainder of his working life to meet his 
retirement income needs. And even with a high attitude to risk, he needed to achieve above 
the regulators upper projection rate, for the duration of his working life, just to achieve the 
same benefits as he was already guaranteed under the DB scheme. So, while Mr S may 
have been willing to take risk, doing so when it was unlikely to improve his benefits was not, 
in my view, in his best interests. 
So, from a financial viability perspective, I think a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in 
Mr S best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
HPIMC has said that Mr S wanted flexibility to be able to take his pension benefits early. 
As Ive already explained though, I dont think a definitive decision had been made in respect 
of intended retirement date  rather Mr S had expressed a preference. So, I dont think he 
needed to transfer when he did, to achieve flexibility, particularly given how long he had until 
he could even potentially retire. I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr S to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did, for this reason. If Mr S later had reason 
to transfer out of their DB scheme, he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefitsThe fact find noted that Mr S was interested in leaving an inheritance for his family. And the 
suitability report said that Mr S would like more control over how death benefits were paid. 
But Mr S was still young and had no spouse or dependents at the time. His future 
circumstances and needs were unknown. So, I think any definitive, irreversible decision to 
transfer his benefits based on the need or desire for a particular type of death benefit was 
premature.
The DB scheme provided a spouses pension. Again, Mr S was single, so I can understand 
why he may have thought alternative death benefits would be of better use to him. But it was 
entirely possible he would go on to have a spouse in future. So, I dont think its reasonable 
to say at that point that Mr S definitely had no need for the DB scheme death benefits. I also 
think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. This was 
guaranteed and escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the 
sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. So, couldve been valuable to any future 
spouse if Mr S predeceased them. 
Furthermore, if Mr S genuinely wanted to leave an inheritance or legacy for his family / 
estate I think HPIMC shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr S about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I 
dont think HPIMC explored to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income, which was always likely to be the case here, in exchange for alternative death 
benefits. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. 
Control 
HPIMC has said that Mr S wanted control over his pension and how it was invested. But I 
think Mr S desire for control was overstated. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S was an 
experienced investor. I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to 
manage his pension funds on his own. The fact find recorded that the level of involvement 
Mr S wanted to have was low. And the suitability report indicated that HPIMC would be 
actively managing funds moving forward on his behalf. Neither of which I think is indicative of 
someone who genuinely was seeking control of their investments. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mr S  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Part of Mr S complaint was that his funds were invested in a high-risk portfolio, 
inappropriately. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because I think Mr S should have been advised to 
remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension might have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But HPIMC wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr S might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr S needed and recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think HPIMC shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against HPIMC's 
advice. But Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme, against HPIMCs advice. I say this because Mr S was an inexperienced investor 
and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. He may have had a 
high attitude to risk. But I dont think that means he wouldve taken risk just for the sake of it 
 particularly if it had been made clear that the risk here was unnecessary as it was always 
unlikely to improve his retirement benefits. So, if HPIMC  a professional adviser whom he 
had sought out  had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight and Mr S wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think HPIMC should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for HPIMCs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
Mr S has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
HPIMC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 60 under the DB scheme, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
HPIMC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date HPIMC receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes HPIMC to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect HPIMC to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hereford Pension, 
Investment and Mortgage Centre LLP to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I would additionally require 
Hereford Pension, Investment and Mortgage Centre LLP to pay Mr S any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I would only require Hereford 
Pension, Investment and Mortgage Centre LLP to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Hereford Pension, Investment and Mortgage Centre LLP pays Mr S the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hereford Pension, 
Investment and Mortgage Centre LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman