DRN-3726204
The complaint
Mr and Ms G complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down the claims they made in relation to their timeshare purchase.
What happened
In August 2008 Mr and Ms G bought a timeshare membership following a sales presentation 
from Business C. They took out a joint loan for £14,483 with GE Money to pay for the 
timeshare.
In 2019 Mr and Ms G raised a claim via their representative against GE Money because they 
provided the funds for Mr and Ms G to buy the timeshare - and they believed the timeshare 
was mis-sold to them. These included claims under section 75 and section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In summary, they said:
Business C misrepresented the timeshare membership, coerced them into buying it, and 
breached the relevant timeshare regulations.
Business C wasnt a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised broker at the time, 
as confirmed by the FCA register. And GE Money didnt carry out proper affordability 
checks before lending to them.
The timeshare agreement is Null and Void in line with the EU Directive, and the loan 
with GE Money is therefore also Null and Void.
The interest rate charged on the loan was 16.56% compared to the Bank of England 
base rate of 0.5% in August 2008, which was an unfair contract term.
GE Money didnt respond. So, Mr and Ms G made a complaint via our service. GE Money 
then responded to Mr and Ms Gs original claim and offered £25 compensation to apologise 
for the delay in responding. They said they were unable to locate Mr and Ms Gs account, 
which is likely due to their information retention policy. They said the records may have been 
securely destroyed as the loan was closed more than six years ago. In response to the 
complaint points raised, GE Money said:
Mr and Ms Gs complaints about misrepresentation, the interest rate on the loan, and a 
lack of affordability checks at the point of sale are out of time under the Dispute 
resolution rules in the FCA Handbook because they took out the account more than six 
years ago, and they knew they had reason to complain more than three years before 
they did. So, they do not fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
They didnt sell the product so they cant investigate the rest of the complaint fully or 
fairly. They said Mr and Ms G should contact Business C directly instead.
There was no regulatory or legal obligation to disclose commission details at the point of 
sale. And any complaint about an unfair relationship under section 140A is time-barred 
because it occurred more than six years ago. They also said they didnt accept the 
relationship was unfair as alleged, or at all, in any event.
Mr and Ms Gs representative was unhappy with the response. They said GE Money was 
responsible for the misrepresentations by Business C under section 56 of the CCA and Mr 
and Ms G had a like claim against them under section 75 of the CCA. They also said the 
relationship between Mr and Ms G and GE Money is unfair under section 140A of the CCA 
because of the terms of the loan agreement and the timeshare agreement (as a related 
agreement), and due to dubious, unfair, and misleading sales practices by Business C. They 
reiterated that the timeshare agreement is null and void because Business C breached the 
relevant timeshare regulations and laws by selling them a floating weeks timeshare, which 
have been deemed unlawful by the Spanish courts.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Ms Gs complaint. She concluded that Mr and 
Ms Gs section 75 and section 140A claims were raised out of time under the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). So, she didnt think GE Money acted unfairly by turning down their claims. She 
also didnt think there was anything that could extend these time limits. She also explained 
that Business C was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) at the time of sale  not 
the FCA. And she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr and Ms G.
In response, Mr and Ms Gs representative responded to say that the investigator didnt 
consider that the complaint was made within three years from the date of knowledge in 
relation to their submission that the timeshare agreement, and therefore the loan agreement, 
is null and void.
Mr and Ms Gs representative summarised the relevant law for Timeshares and made the 
following arguments around why the timeshare agreement is null and void:
Business C knowingly sold Mr and Ms G a points-based timeshare which was in breach 
of the relevant EU Directive. And the timeshare agreement is null and void because of 
that breach.
An accurate description of the accommodation and its location werent provided in the 
timeshare agreement, and the exact period within which the right that is the subject of 
the agreement may be exercised wasnt specified, which was in breach of the 
Timeshares Act 1992.
This meant the withdrawal period for the timeshare agreement was 3 months and 10 
days. And Business C and GE Money breached the 1992 Act regulations by taking 
advance payments during that withdrawal period.
The Spanish Supreme Court made a ruling that points-based and floating weeks 
timeshares are null and void, and it is most likely the UK courts would reach the same 
conclusion.
They said Mr and Ms G only discovered the contracts were null and void when they 
consulted their representative in 2019, therefore they made their complaint in time, based on 
the three years date of knowledge rule. And section 14A of the LA should apply to extend 
limitation because GE Money had a duty of care to ensure all laws were complied with, and 
they were responsible for the actions of Business C as their agent. They asked that the 
ombudsman comment on the validity of the timeshare agreement.
The case was then referred to me for a decision.
Mr provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about Mr and Ms Gs complaint explaining that I didnt intend 
to uphold it. In my provisional findings, I said the following:
Mr and Ms Gs complaint about the interest rate on their loan was referred to us more 
than six years after the event being complained about (the sale in 2008) and more than three years since they were aware of the interest rate. So, their complaint falls outside of 
the time limits set out in our jurisdiction rules, and this means I cannot consider it.
The section 75 claim was made outside of the relevant time limits under the LA, so while 
I thought GE Money ought to have considered their claim, I didnt think they would have 
upheld it if they had. 
I thought it was most likely Mr and Ms Gs loan closed more than six years before they 
made their section 140A claim to GE Money. So, I also thought this claim was raised 
outside of the time limits under the LA on this basis, and I didnt think GE Money had 
acted unreasonably by concluding the claim was time-barred. 
I also considered Mr and Ms Gs representatives submissions that section 14A of the LA 
should apply, which would mean they made their complaint in time. But I explained that I 
didnt think it was applicable in the circumstances, or that there were any other reasons 
why the time limits under the LA could be extended for either claim.
I didnt think either the timeshare agreement with Business C or the loan agreement with 
GE Money were voidable.
I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the loan was unaffordable for Mr and 
Ms G, even if I were to conclude that GE Money or its agents didnt carry out the proper 
checks for creditworthiness and affordability.
I didnt think I needed to comment on the £25 offer from GE Money for a customer 
service aspect because Mr and Ms G hadnt complained about it. I explained they should 
contact GE Money directly, if they wished to accept the offer. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider. 
GE Money confirmed they had no further comments. Mr and Ms Gs representative 
responded to say they disagreed with my provisional findings and reiterated the following 
points:
The timeshare agreement didnt provide the information required under the Timeshare 
Act 1992. As a result, Mr and Ms Gs withdrawal period was extended to three months 
and ten days. 
GE Money made an advance payment to Business C during this withdrawal period, in 
breach of the Timeshare Act 1992. As a result, GE Money was negligent by breaching 
the law, as they had a duty of care to ensure that they (and their agents) complied with 
all aspects of the required law.
Section 14A of the LA therefore applies to extend time to three years from the relevant 
date of knowledge. And Mr and Ms G were only made aware of these breaches when 
they engaged their representative  which was within three years of complaining. 
The complaint to GE Money is that, as a result of GE Money breaching the Timeshare 
Act 1992, the relationship between GE Money and Mr and Ms G was unfair under 
section 140A of the CCA. 
The complaint was referred back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr and Ms Gs complaint for the same reasons as set 
out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Does the complaint fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service?
As I explained in my provisional decision, the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to 
deal with every complaint it receives. Its bound by rules that set out the types of complaints 
it can look at. Those rules are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook 
under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Under DISP 2.8.2R it says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial
Ombudsman Service: []
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
[]
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2R [] was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or []
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the 
complaint where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R [] have expired
And DISP 2.8.4G says: An example of exceptional circumstances might be where the 
complainant has been or is incapacitated.
GE Money argued that Mr and Ms G raised parts of their complaint outside of these time 
limits, and they made clear in their final response letter that they do not give their permission 
for us to consider the complaint if it is made out of time under the DISP rules.
As I explained in my provisional findings, I considered each of the claims Mr and Ms G have 
raised and I didnt think I could consider Mr and Ms Gs complaint about the interest rate on 
their loan. I said: 
Mr and Ms Gs representative said the variable interest rate on the loan of 16.56% 
was extortionate and is clearly an unfair contract term. The underlying event being 
complained about here is ultimately that the interest rate was too high or unfair. 
From looking at the loan documentation, this interest rate was clearly set out in the 
loan agreement, loan statement, and in the welcome letter from GE Money in August 
2008. So, Im persuaded that Mr and Ms G knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, the interest rate on their account at that time. If they were unhappy with the 
interest rate, they could have raised a complaint. And I think they knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, they had cause to complain at that point. But they didnt 
raise this as a complaint until November 2019, which is more than six years from the 
date of sale, and more than three years from when I think they were aware they had cause to complain. This means I dont think they raised their complaint about the 
interest rate within the time limits set out in the DISP rules. So, I dont think I can 
consider this part of their complaint.
Mr and Ms Gs representative didnt dispute this point. Although they did say more generally 
that Mr and Ms G werent aware of specific breaches on the part of GE Money until they 
engaged their representative. But this doesnt change my provisional conclusion that the 
underlying event being complained about is that the interest rate was unfair, and Im still 
satisfied Mr and Ms G ought reasonably to have been aware of what the interest rate was at 
the point of sale, and that they could complain about it from that point onward if they were 
unhappy. They didnt do that within six years from the date of sale (as the later point out of 
the six and three year parts of the DISP rules). So, I still dont think I can consider their 
complaint point about the interest rate on the loan.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that I had the jurisdiction to consider all other parts of 
Mr and Ms Gs complaint under the DISP rules, and neither party disputed my findings on 
this. So, Ill now proceed to set out my findings for the merits of this complaint. 
 
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Mr and Ms G said that Business C misrepresented a number of points in relation to the 
timeshare agreement they purchased. So, they said GE Money is jointly liable for these 
misrepresentations under section 75 of the CCA. But if GE Money could show the section 75 
claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on 
the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear, however, that Im not 
deciding if any right Mr and Ms G may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - 
thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down Mr and Ms Gs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 
(Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded on tort for 
the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mr and Ms G brought a like claim against GE Money under section 75 of the CCA. The 
limitation period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, the limitation period for the section 75 claim expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Ms Gs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against 
GE Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, 
so in August 2008. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of Business C. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in August 2008, so Mr and Ms G 
had six years from that date to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about 
their claim until November 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. While 
I think GE Money ought to have considered their claim, I still dont think they would have 
upheld it if they had. So, I am not asking GE Money to do anything further in response to 
their section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but 
I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Mr and Ms G claimed that the relationship between them and GE Money was unfair for a 
number of reasons, including that the related timeshare agreement was null and void. 
However, I must also consider the time limits under the LA for the same reasons as 
explained in relation to their section 75 claim.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of 
the CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended 
if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. 
In my provisional findings, I explained that Mr and Ms G are making a claim for sums 
recoverable by statute, to which section 9 of the LA applies. I am still satisfied the relevant 
limitation period under the LA is six years, and that period runs from when the loan ended  
not from when the related timeshare agreement ended. Mr and Ms Gs representative didnt 
dispute this in response to my provisional decision.
I also explained that although there is a lack of evidence around when Mr and Ms Gs loan 
agreement definitely ended, I thought it was likely that it ended in 2009, following a large 
overpayment of £13,500 in August 2009. This left an outstanding balance of £522.20, which 
would have been repaid within the following three months if they continued to pay their 
contractual monthly payments of £259.63. Mr and Ms Gs representative didnt dispute this. 
Considering this, and from what GE Money said about their data retention policy, I still think 
it was reasonable for GE Money to assume that Mr and Ms Gs loan agreement ended more 
than six years prior to them making a claim under section 140A of the CCA in 2019, which is 
why they were unable to locate the account. Therefore, I still think its more likely than not 
that Mr and Ms G made their claim more than six years after their loan agreement with 
GE Money ended. It follows that I think they raised their claim outside of the applicable time 
limit under the LA. And this means I still dont think GE Money acted unfairly by concluding 
that Mr and Ms Gs section 140A claim was time-barred on this basis.
Should section 14A of the LA apply to Mr and Ms Gs claims?
Mr and Ms Gs representative said that section 14A of the LA is applicable. They said this 
would extend time to when Mr and Ms G became aware of the breaches of the law by 
Business C. But I still disagree. Ill explain why.
Section 14A provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to 
cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that section). It provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mr and Ms G purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr and Ms G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose in the way Mr and Ms Gs representative argues, or that 
advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A could apply.
Mr and Ms Gs representative argues that Business C breached the law while acting as an 
agent for GE Money, so GE Money were responsible for Business Cs actions. They said 
GE Money were negligent because they had a duty of care to ensure all laws were being 
complied with when Business C arranged the timeshare contract, as a linked agreement.
As I explained in my provisional findings, I accept that Business C conducted the pre-sale 
negotiations in the capacity of GE Moneys agent as well as in their own capacity, under 
section 56 of the CCA. But, for the same reasons as Ive explained below when considering 
whether Business C complied with the relevant sections of the Timeshare Act 1992, I dont 
think this creates a duty of care in the way Mr and Ms Gs representative says, and I dont 
think GE Money acted negligently. So, I still dont think section 14A applies in this case. And 
I dont think there are any other reasons or provisions in the LA that mean time should be 
extended in these circumstances.
Is Mr and Ms Gs timeshare agreement null and void?
In my provisional findings, I explained that Id considered Mr and Ms Gs representatives 
arguments, along with the EU Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment they 
referred to, but I wasnt persuaded that this meant the timeshare agreement and/or loan 
agreement were null and void. And Im still not persuaded by the arguments Mr and Ms Gs 
representative has made. 
As per my provisional decision, Mr and Ms Gs purchase agreement makes clear that their 
agreement is governed by English Law - not Spanish law (see clause P of the Acquisition 
Agreement Terms and Conditions). So, I dont think the Spanish judgment Mr and Ms Gs 
representative referred to can be applied directly to the question of whether Mr and Ms Gs 
timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published a briefing 
paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems faced by UK 
owners, in which it said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of themselves.
Having considered the Timeshare Act 1992, the 1994 Directive and the relevant regulations, 
I still do not think the law makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested either. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Ms Gs representative specifically argue that Business C failed to provide the 
required information under the Timeshare Act 1992, as amended by the 1994 EU Directive 
(94/47/EC). Section 1A Obligations to provide information of the Timeshares Act 1992 
says:
(1) A person who proposes in the course of a business to enter into a timeshare 
agreement to which this Act applies as offeror (an operator) must provide any 
person who requests information on the proposed accommodation with a document 
complying with subsection (2) below.
(2) The document shall provide  
(a) a general description of the proposed accommodation,
(b) information (which may be brief) on the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) to 
(g) and (i) of Schedule 1 to this Act [], and(c) information on how further information may be obtained.
Sub-section (7) goes on to say:
In this section the proposed accommodation means  
(a) The accommodation which is the subject of the proposed agreement, or
(b) The accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of the 
proposed agreement, 
as the case may be.
Section 1C Obligatory terms of timeshare agreement says:
(1) A person must not in the course of a business enter into a timeshare agreement 
to which this Act applies as offeror unless the agreement includes, as terms set out in 
it, the information referred to in Schedule 1 to this Act.
Schedule 1 sets out a Minimum list of items to be included in a timeshare agreement to 
which section 1C applies. This list includes the following, which Mr and Ms Gs 
representative argues were not specified in the timeshare agreement:
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate 
description of that accommodation and its location.
(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement 
may be exercised and, if necessary, its duration;
Firstly, based on the extracts above and my wider reading of the Act, the 1992 Act makes 
provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it 
was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me 
think selling those types of timeshares was prohibited. So, I dont think all timeshare 
agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act in 
the way Mr and Ms Gs representative argues. I think setting out the resorts Mr and Ms G 
could use (in other words, the pool of accommodation) was sufficient for the purposes of 
the regulations. And Mr and Ms G havent argued that they didnt know which properties they 
could use for their points or membership, or that the relevant properties werent disclosed to 
them. So, I am not persuaded Business C failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 1992 
requirements on this point. 
The documentation also makes clear that Mr and Ms G could use their 1501 points to book 
accommodation each year, from 2009 onward. Theres nothing in the Timeshare Act 1992 
that specifically states Business C were required to provide an end date for the membership. 
So, I dont think Business C failed to comply with the information requirements on this point 
either. This means I also dont think the longer withdrawal period applies, or that Business C 
or GE Money breached the Timeshare Act 1992 by taking advance payments within the 
withdrawal period.
In any event, there is nothing in the Timeshare Act 1992 that means the timeshare 
agreement would be unenforceable, even if the minimum standard information requirements 
or other requirements under the Timeshare Act were not complied with. 
 
Given I still do not agree that Business C breached the Timeshare Act 1992 in the way Mr 
and Ms Gs representative argued, I also still dont think Mr and Ms G had a claim for 
negligence against either Business C or GE Money on this basis. It follows that I also still 
disagree that section 14A of the LA should apply to extend the applicable time limits for Mr 
and Ms Gs claims under the CCA. In conclusion, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think the timeshare or loan 
agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive explained. So, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Was the broker authorised?
For completeness, I still think Business C was correctly authorised by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT) at the time of sale. And Mr and Ms Gs representative didnt dispute this in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Ms Gs complaint about whether proper affordability checks were carried out
As explained in my provisional decision, even if I were to conclude that GE Money or its 
agents didnt carry out the proper checks for creditworthiness and affordability when 
arranging the loan, I would still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr 
and Ms G and/or that they lost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of their complaint.
Mr and Ms Gs representative still hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show that this 
was the case. And I havent seen anything to suggest they struggled to repay the amount 
borrowed, for example, or that they otherwise had financial problems during the relevant 
time. So, I still dont think theres sufficient evidence to uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service
I understand GE Money offered Mr and Ms G £25 compensation to apologise for the delay in 
responding to their claims. But Mr and Ms G havent complained about this and didnt say 
anything about it in response to my provisional decision. So, I still dont think I need to 
comment on it. If they wish to accept the £25 offer, they should contact GE Money directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Gs complaint about GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman