DRN-3656500
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in relation to repairs it 
undertook on her car after an accident.
What happened
Miss H had an accident and AXA repaired her car. But the repairs werent without incident 
and the car had to go back on more than one occasion. Finally AXA had an independent 
engineer (IE) asses the car in relation to eight reported fault issues (a ninth point was made 
about missing information which was later resolved). AXA wasnt convinced it was liable for 
all of the issues, but did pay £250 compensation. Miss H complained to us. 
Our Investigator felt AXA needed to do more in respect of seven of the eight fault issues. He 
said they had most likely been caused during the accident or repairs, so AXA should pay for 
any estimate for repair presented by Miss H. He also said AXA should pay a further £250 
compensation. AXA and Miss H agreed.
Subsequently AXA paid Miss H the recommended additional compensation and Miss H sent 
AXA estimates for repair. AXA accepted that it had caused further delays to this point and 
offered another £500 compensation. Miss H accepted that, and was pleased the repairs 
would now move forwards. 
However, AXA decided to vet the estimates, rather than just pay them as it had previously 
agreed. AXA then wasnt able to speak to Miss Hs garage. The parties, having reached a 
further impasse, referred the complaint back to the Financial Ombudsman. 
AXA told our Investigator that it couldnt maintain the agreement that had been reached 
earlier in the complaint process. AXA said it felt it wasnt liable for all seven issues identified 
by the Investigator. And whilst its engineer had said the cost of £273.60 for alignment work 
could be agreed, it was felt that the estimate from another garage (totalling £6,126.72 
inc. VAT) included work likely unrelated to the incident and/or previous poor repairs. Miss H 
said she couldnt believe the issues were still unresolved. The complaint was passed to me 
for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt AXA did need to do more regarding repairs, and pay more compensation as well 
additional sums for the diagnostic cost Miss H had incurred. My provisional findings were:  
There were eight faults considered by the IE, of those numbers 4, 5 and 7 did not require 
further investigation or were not diagnosed further and do not feature as repair items on the 
manufacturer invoice in question. So I wont comment on these issues further. 
Number 2 on the IE report was in respect of alignment. Repairs of this were featured in an 
estimate Miss H obtained totalling £273.60 (inc. VAT) and AXA said it would pay this. 
However, it hasnt to date been paid. So Im going to require AXA to pay it plus interest* from 
9 July 2021, the date of the estimate, until settlement is made.
I will now concentrate on items 1, 3, 6 and 8 of the IE report for which the manufacturer 
garage has estimated for repair, totalling £6,126.72 inc. VAT (£5,105.60 exc. VAT). And 
which AXA has refuted liability for. Id add at this point that the work included in the 
manufacturers estimate does, I think, represent what the manufacturer believes is needed to 
fix 1, 3 6 and 8 listed on the IE report. And AXAs objections to being liable for these items 
stem from its belief that they are no related to either the accident or its repair. Whether or not 
I agree with that (in whole or in part), I have to say I am disappointed by this response from 
AXA at this stage. AXA agreed to our Investigators view which said AXA must pay for the 
repair needed to fix these faults. And Miss H pursued the matter accordingly by obtaining an 
estimate and submitting it for payment. I find AXA misled Miss H by agreeing to the view and 
then raising issues again  the same issues that have always existed for it  that the faults in 
question were not related to the repairs or the accident. I can understand that Miss H 
became frustrated when AXA began questioning the estimate. I know AXA has paid some 
compensation for delay in the claim progressing but I dont think that takes into account the 
frustration Miss H has been caused which Ive spoken of here. For that I think AXA should 
pay a further £500 compensation.
Miss H may think that AXA having agreed to our view means it is bound to stick to that; that 
instead of being awarded £500 compensation for the frustration caused by being misled, 
they should be awarded the cost of the whole repair estimate. But I cant fairly and 
reasonably require that. That would equate to a punitive award. Rather AXA has raised 
concerns about settling for the repair estimate so I must consider them.
There are three items on the repair estimate which I dont think AXA has any liability for at 
all. The first two of those are linked and total £2,929.02 exc. VAT  throttle body and inlet 
manifolds. These are related to fault 6 on the IE report; the car going into limp mode. It 
seems the car responds to an air intake issue by going into limp mode and the intake issue 
is caused by cracked manifolds, which in turn may be causing a fault with/to show on the 
throttle body. AXAs engineers view is that this is likely unrelated to the repair or accident. 
Neither the IE or the manufacturer have linked this issue to the repair or accident. Although 
I bear in mind that when the manufacturer was asked to complete a diagnostic (before 
completing the repair estimate), Miss H had not been told to ask the manufacturer to 
establish the cause of the issue which, in turn was causing the limp mode problem. 
However, I do think AXAs engineer has a point. It isnt always the case that just because 
issues arise after an accident and repair, they can reasonably be determined to have 
resulted from the accident and/or repair. For me to say they have most likely resulted from 
the same Id have to have some kind of logical reasoning which I could apply that gets me 
from the accident or repair to the fault in question. I havent seen anything like that here. 
Here the accident affected mainly the body work and some mechanical parts on the drivers 
side of the front of the car. The engine wasnt affected. And the manifolds, as far as Im 
aware, are situated, towards the middle of the engine, but closer to the cabin than the 
leading edge of the bonnet. It doesnt seem logical to me that they would have been cracked 
either in the accident or during the repairs. So with regret for the disappointment I know this 
will cause Miss H, Im not going to require AXA to pay for this repair because I cant 
reasonably say it is liable for it.
The third item is the door lock, totalling £323.80 exc. VAT. This is number 3 on the IE report. 
The IE said he couldnt link this to the accident or repair. AXAs own engineer has explained 
that the switch that is causing this problem, and is the subject on the repair estimate, is 
situated deep within the door cavity. I understand this door wasnt affected by the accident 
and wasnt worked on by the repairing garage. Similar to the above, I cant see any logical 
reason for the switch to have become faulty due to the accident or repairs. Which means 
I cant fairly and reasonably make AXA pay the cost of its repair.  I see the final two items on the repair estimate differently though. They are the suspension 
arm and wheel hubs/bearings. They total £991.08 and £762.70 both exc. VAT, plus £99.00 
(which includes VAT) for wheel alignment. These reflect numbers 1 and 8 on the IE report. 
Both numbers 1 and 8 relate to an issue on the drivers side, but the estimate looks to repair 
these items on both sides of the car. I appreciate that some items on a car should be 
repaired in tandem. But AXAs engineer says that isnt necessary here. I think the 
manufacturer might well have quoted to repair both if there were generally signs of wear on 
the side that wasnt damaged and repaired. And I bear in mind the age of the car and that it 
has been used between the date of AXAs initial repairs and the estimate. But AXA isnt 
liable for repairs necessary due to general wear. And in the absence of any general 
recommendation from an expert for both to be reinstated together, I cant reasonably require 
AXA to cover the full estimated cost for these items. I do though think it should be paying 
half of the suspension arm and hub/bearing cost, plus the full £99.00 for wheel alignment. 
I think the wheel alignment would likely be needed even if only one wheel and one side of 
the suspension is worked on. 
If I see evidence that makes me think that both sides should be done in tandem though  
because one cant be done without the other (rather than just it being convenient to do the 
other, already worn one, at the same time), then I might revise my view on this. But at the 
moment Im only persuaded half is due.
Now AXA, I expect, will be reading this and wondering why I think half is due. Its position is 
that whilst the drivers side was squeaking and it did work on the drivers side, there hasnt 
been anything affirmative to link the squeak to the repair or to poor work by its garage. AXA 
thinks more investigation into this issue is, and always was, required. But I think the time for 
investigations has passed. Unlike the other issues above, I think there is a logical chain here 
making it most likely that AXA is reasonably liable for the cost of this repair. That is  the car 
was damaged on that side, that area of the car was worked on, that specific item was 
worked on, there was no squeak before, there is a squeak now and there were other poor 
repairs completed to the car. Thats logic enough for me to be satisfied the fault this repair 
will resolve is most likely linked to the accident and/or repairs. If AXA had wanted to show 
this was not linked to its work, it could have looked to investigate that further long before 
now. But it didnt. So Im minded to make it pay Miss H £876.89, plus VAT, plus £99.00 
(which includes VAT), plus interest*. The £876.89 is half of the total repair cost (exc. VAT) 
for the suspension arm and wheel hubs/bearings. I think that is fair. 
AXA will also likely wonder why I am awarding VAT and interest. I think this has gone on for 
too long for me to fairly be able to say Miss H should have to come back to AXA again once 
repairs are done and VAT is due. I think Miss H is likely to get the work done and incur VAT 
in doing so. And I dont think either party should have the inconvenience of needing to view 
this again after my final decision and settlement of my awards have been made. And whilst 
Miss H may not yet have incurred the cost for repairs, the cost for repairs is likely to have 
increased since the estimates were completed. I think adding interest is a fair way of dealing 
with that likely extra cost whilst again avoiding the parties being involved further after my 
decision and AXAs settlement of my awards. That is of course, if my final decision remains 
the same and Miss H accepts it within the deadline given, at which point AXA is bound by 
my findings and award. 
The final thing for me to comment on takes the parties back to the original diagnostic 
completed by the manufacturer garage. AXA accepted it misled Miss H about this too. She 
was given to understand by AXA that it would pay for the whole diagnostic cost. That was 
£489.60. But AXA said the garage had diagnosed things that werent listed for concern by 
the IE. So AXA only paid Miss H £388.80  which, in my view, took it too long (likely until late 
March/early April 2021) for it to agree and pay. This left Miss H £100.80 out of pocket. 
Miss H accepted the settlement on an interim basis but has remained unhappy about it since. I think AXA must fairly pay her the outstanding amount, plus interest*. And interest* on 
the initial, but delayed amount too. In each case interest will be from 18 January 2021 (the 
date of the invoice), on each settlement amount and until settlement of each sum, was/is 
paid. And interest is awarded in this case to reflect the period for which Miss H has been out 
of pocket for these sums.
I think AXA reasonably has to pay the outstanding sum on the diagnostic cost because it 
wasnt clear with Miss H before she incurred the cost; about the basis for the diagnostic and 
what it would pay. So, in this case, AXAs misleading information directly caused Miss H to 
incur this cost which she otherwise would have avoided. So AXA reasonably has to make 
her whole in respect of that financial loss.    
AXA said it would accept my provisional decision. Miss H said she was disappointed by it. 
Miss H said it seems I think she is not being truthful about events. She said the crash 
caused a shock to the car which affected many items. And the area directly impacted by the 
crash contained a lot of wiring, so she suspects this was all affected. She noted that the IE 
accepted the door did not lock properly. Miss H said she acted as directed in getting a 
diagnostic done on the car. She said whilst this is a complex situation and there may not be 
much evidence to support her, she expects to receive what is right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss H believes she is entitled to more form AXA than I have found it is 
liable for. And that the car must have suffered more in the crash and during repairs than 
I have accepted. But, as I explained provisionally, I have to, at the very least, have some 
logical reasoning on which to base a finding against an insurer. It is not that I dont believe 
Miss H when she says that she had no problems with her car before, but that she does now. 
It is rather a case of what I can find AXA is most likely responsible for. Because, as Ive said, 
faults arising after a crash and repair are not necessarily caused by that crash and repair.
I appreciate that Miss H thinks the manifolds may have suffered due to the shock of the 
accident. But Im not persuaded that its logical or most likely that they did. Not given they are 
an isolated part within the engine and nothing else around them suffered. And Ive not seen 
any expert evidence which suggests that is most likely what happened either.
I understand the engineer saw the door wouldnt lock. But the issue is could that be traced 
back to the crash or repair. Again, I cant see any logical reason for that. Not even taking into 
account Miss Hs view that the shock may have caused problems in and around the car. And 
as I understand it, it is the switch within the door that is causing this problem  Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this is an electrical problem which might have been caused by faults 
with the wiring located in the area of the impact and repair.
I think Miss H has acted reasonably throughout to try and resolve this, following advice from 
AXA in respect of things like getting the diagnostic work done. And, as Ive said I think AXA 
has mislead Miss H at times. Consequently Im requiring it pay the remainder of the 
diagnostic fee, interest on the whole sum and pay a further £500 compensation. I think that 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. With regret for any disappointment I realise this will cause Miss H, Im not minded to change 
my provisional findings. They, along with my further comments here, are the findings of this 
my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Miss H:
£273.60 (which includes VAT) for alignment work, plus interest* from 9 July 2021 until 
settlement is made.
£500 for frustration caused by it misleading her.
£99.00 (which includes VAT) for wheel alignment, plus interest* from 5 August 2021 until 
settlement is made.
£876.89 plus VAT, for half the cost of suspension arm and hub/bearing repairs, plus 
interest* from 5 August 2021 until settlement is made.
£100.80 (which includes VAT), plus interest* from 18 January 2021 until settlement is 
made.
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £388.80 applied from 18 January 2021 
until payment of this sum was made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman