DRN-3067586
The complaint
Mrs S complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) declined a claim for 
fire damage, under her home insurance policy. 
Mrs S has employed a claims consultant to represent her. But I will refer to Mrs S in my 
decision for ease of reading.
What happened
In February 2019 a property Mrs S was renting out was badly damaged in a fire. The tenants 
had moved out of the property before the end of the lease. The emergency services found a 
third party living in the property when they attended to deal with the fire.
Evidence of cannabis plant cultivation was found at the property. The fire brigade thought an 
overheated UV light, used in growing the plants, was the source of the fire.
Mrs S made a claim to Catlin. It declined the claim referring to two of its policy exclusions. It 
says cover is not provided for damage caused by criminal acts by tenants or other persons 
legally on the premises. Also, that any loss resulting from the property being used for illegal 
activities was excluded. Mrs S thought Catlin was unfairly excluding her claim and referred 
her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Catlin had fairly relied on its policy 
terms to decline the claim. She says there was evidence of the property being used to grow 
cannabis illegally, and the fire was indicated to have been caused by a UV light used in 
growing the plants.  
Mrs S disagreed with this outcome. She says the third party had no permission to stay in the 
property irrespective of whether the tenants had provided him with the key. She asked that 
an ombudsman review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs S, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Catlin sent an investigator to assess Mrs S claim. The report says the tenants had vacated 
the property prior to the fire and were thought to have given a key to a third party who was 
living in the property. This was confirmed by Mrs Ss son. 
It was the third party who called the emergency services upon discovering the fire. The 
emergency services found the electrical supply had been tampered with, connected to the 
cannabis cultivation. An electrician was needed to attend to make the electrical installation 
safe. 
The fire service indicated the source of the fire was a UV light used in the cultivation of 
cannabis, which had overheated. I understand the third party was arrested on suspicion of 
production of cannabis. 
The policy terms relied on by Catlin say:
B: Exclusions.
The following exclusions re applicable to all section of your policy. 
5. Damage caused by: Deliberate or criminal acts by you, any member of your family or 
your domestic employees, resident or any other person legally on the premises or with the 
deception of any of these persons;
7. Any loss, damage or liability caused as a result of the insured property being used for 
illegal activities and we will not pay for any claim arising from such loss.
Its clear the third party was arrested in relation to the cannabis production at the property. 
The electrical supply had been tampered with. And the seat of the fire was indicated by the 
fire service to be a UV lamp that had overheated and was being used to grow the plants. 
Based on this I think Catlins view is persuasive that the property was being used for illegal 
activities, and it was this that was the cause of the fire.  
I note Mrs S disagrees with Catlin that the third party was on her property lawfully. She says 
the fact a key was passed to the third party by her tenant doesnt mean she gave permission 
for him to reside in the property. She maintains the third party obtained access without her 
permission and was there unlawfully. 
I have thought about whether the third party was on the premises lawfully and what this 
means for Mrs Ss claim. It seems clear the third party was given access to the property by 
the tenants. Mrs S wasnt aware of this. But the tenants were the lawful occupiers of the 
property at the time and it seems likely they gave permission for the third party to be there. 
That said, I dont think this point has an impact on the claim being excluded.
The exclusion terms relied upon by Catlin say it will not pay for any loss where this is caused 
by the property being used for illegal activities. Its been shown the property was being used 
for an illegal activity. Cannabis was being grown in one of the bedrooms. And the fire service 
indicates the fire was caused by a UV light that was being used to grow the cannabis. 
Based on this evidence, I think Catlin acted fairly in relying on the policy terms and excluding 
the claim as the property was being used for an illegal activity - linked to the fire. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman