DRN-4084651
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Oakleafe Group Limited acted in its role as a loss assessor 
for a claim he made under his home insurance policy.
He says Oakleafe failed to communicate effectively with his insurer, who Ill call R. And, as a 
result of this, furniture which had been in storage was left outside and damaged.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
After a water leak caused damage in his home, Mr B made a claim with R. He also 
appointed Oakleafe to act as his loss assessor.
Oakleafe negotiated a cash settlement with R and sourced a builder to carry out 
repairs. During this time, Mr B moved out into alternative accommodation. And his 
contents were put into storage by R.
R understood repairs were due to complete and it was agreed they would return the 
stored contents on 18 October. R tried to do so but they discovered the repairs 
werent finished and the contents couldnt be returned.
Oakleafe arranged to store the contents until repairs were finished. In the meantime, 
Mr Bs contents were left outside. He says that caused them to become damaged.
Our investigator thought Oakleafe failed to communicate adequately about this 
matter. But she wasnt persuaded this had led to any damage. She said R had noted 
damage to some of the contents prior to storing them and it wasnt clear from 
photographs when any of the damage was likely to have happened. She asked 
Oakleafe to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience it caused.
Whilst Mr B remained of the view that the contents were damaged during this time, 
he accepted that he couldnt provide evidence to support that view. He thought the 
compensation figure should be increased, although that was in part related to other 
matters Im not considering in this decision.
Oakleafe made a number of points. In summary:
oIt wasnt carrying out a Regulated Activity in this matter.
oIt had intimated to R that the work would likely continue beyond 18 October 
and R hadnt sought confirmation of a date to return the contents.
oOn the day, R contacted Mr B directly  contrary to the agreement for all 
communication to be with Oakleafe. Similarly, Mr B only told Oakleafe about 
the problem after it had happened. So Oakleafe couldnt have intervened any 
sooner to resolve the problem.
Our investigator remained of the opinion that Oakleafe didnt do enough to 
communicate effectively with R to prevent the problem from happening. She thought 
£100 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint to Oakleafe was about two particular points. The first was about the way 
the repairs were carried out by the builder. That point has been dealt with in a separate 
complaint. The second was about the communication about the contents in storage. Thats 
what Ill consider in this decision. As no other complaint points have been raised, I havent 
considered anything else about the way Oakleafe performed its role as loss assessor.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied Oakleafe is responsible for this complaint and was 
carrying out a Regulated Activity at the relevant time.
In brief, when this problem occurred, Oakleafe was representing Mr B as a loss assessor in 
relation to his claim with R. And R was yet to fully settle or close the claim at this time. That 
means Oakleafe was carrying out the Regulated Activity of assisting in the administration 
and performance of a contract of insurance.
Oakleafes terms and conditions say: we agree to act on your behalf in connection with your 
claim including advising you, preparing your claim(s) and negotiating on your behalf with 
your insurers and/or third parties where applicable. And we shall, to the best of our ability, 
obtain a speedy and satisfactory settlement on your behalf.
So I think it was clear that Oakleafes role was to act for Mr B, liaising directly with R and any 
third parties  such as Rs storage company and the builder carrying out the work  to 
progress the claim promptly and effectively.
The crux of this dispute is whether Oakleafe was responsible for Mr Bs contents being 
delivered to him before work had finished and he was ready to receive them. And, if so, what 
impact that had on him.
Ive looked over the notes prior to October 2021 to see what happened.
In June 2021, drying was finished and repairs were due to begin. Oakleafe told R it 
estimated completion on 20 July. R agreed to extend storage until then. R chased Oakleafe 
for an update closer to the time. When one wasnt provided, R extended storage again.
Oakleafe then said it expected to complete repairs on 27 August. R extended storage. 
Again, R chased Oakleafe for an update closer to the time without a response. It contacted 
Mr B directly. He said work was far from finished and he was due to return from alternative 
accommodation in mid September. So a date of 20 September was set for storage to end 
and Mr Bs contents to be returned to him.
On 16 September, Oakleafe got in touch with R. It said the builder had let it down, work was 
incomplete, and the contents couldnt be returned until 18 October. R agreed to extend 
storage again. It confirmed with Oakleafe the date of 18 October to return the contents. 
Oakleafe agreed.
Later in September, Oakleafe asked R to pay the builders final invoice. I think this gave the 
impression work was complete or due to do so shortly. And in early October, Oakleafe asked R to pay for electricity costs. At neither time did it ask R to extend storage or suggest that 
might be necessary.
Then on 18 October, R tried to deliver the contents to Mr B. The repairs hadnt been 
completed, so Mr B wouldnt accept them. Oakleafe then asked R to take the items to 
another storage facility that Oakleafe would organise and pay for.
Overall, Im satisfied Oakleafe failed to communicate effectively with the relevant parties to 
ensure Mr Bs contents were returned at a suitable time. As a result, they were delivered to 
him before work had finished and he was ready to receive them.
I understand Mr Bs contents were left outside a storage facility at Oakleafes request until 
they could be stored securely later on. Mr B says this caused damage to his items but has 
recently accepted he cant provide to support this. Because of this, Im not satisfied 
Oakleafes actions caused damage to Mr Bs contents.
But, like our investigator, Im satisfied Mr B was caused avoidable distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. It would have been alarming for him when his contents 
were delivered before he was ready to receive them  and for them to be left outside whilst 
Oakleafe made arrangements for them to be stored securely. Im satisfied £100 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
 
I require Oakleafe Group Limited to pay £100 compensation*
*Oakleafe must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman