DRN-2904141
The complaint
F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has given him contradictory information about
replacing a lost bankers draft.  
What happened
F asked Barclays to issue a bankers draft for his client for over £105,000. F sent the bankers
draft to his client by registered post and says this was signed for by their client.
Fs client says they sent the draft to an overseas bank. Fs client says that the overseas
bank lost the bankers draft in their internal mail and asked F if they could replace the lost
bankers draft.
F contacted Barclays to see how the bankers draft could be replaced. Barclays said that F
could ask their client to sign an indemnity form then a new bankers draft could be issued.
F spoke to another staff member from Barclays. F says that Barclays said as it was over six
months then the bankers draft may be invalid and could be rejected if it was presented for
payment. The staff member suggested raising an internal complaint to get a resolution. So F
raised a complaint with Barclays.
Barclays upheld Fs complaint as they said F had been given incorrect information about
who needs to complete the indemnity. Barclays said that F would need to complete the
indemnity as Barclays had no relationship with Fs client. Barclays offered F £50 for them
giving F incorrect information.
F attempted to set up a meeting with their business, their client and Barclays. A meeting was
unable to be set up in branch because of the pandemic. F proposed a remote meeting but
this didnt happen as F was told the local branch manager would contact F with an update. F
was offered a further £50 for delays in responding back to F about a meeting.
F was told by Barclays that the bankers draft could be drawn upon after six months as its
not similar to a cheque. Barclays said they cant cancel a bankers draft. Barclays said F
could raise a second bankers draft, but the bank would hold no liability should F do so as
they hadnt made an error.
F brought their complaint to our service. F said that Barclays had told his client that F must
complete the indemnity. F had told his client that his client should be the one to complete the
indemnity based on the original information Barclays gave F. As a result of this Fs client
thought F was lying to them and had reported F to a separate Ombudsman service to ours.
F wanted Barclays to write a letter confirming that Fs client would need to complete the
indemnity form as F said they hadnt made an error as they hadnt lost the bankers draft and
this was signed for by their client. F also asked our service how Barclays should deal with
their clients refusal to provide the indemnity. F wanted compensating for the stress they
were suffering as a result of incorrect information and how long the complaint was taking to
resolve. F also wanted to be paid business costs.
Our investigator did not uphold Fs complaint. The investigator said that Barclays had
followed their process for lost bankers drafts and he felt that the £100 Barclays had offered
for giving conflicting information was fair and reasonable. Our investigator said he was
unable to consider an award for distress as it is a business which is bringing this complaint
and as such, a business couldnt be considered for compensation for distress. Our
investigator asked Barclays if they were willing to pay Fs business costs but Barclays
declined this.
F didnt accept the view of the investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to review their
complaint. F said they had proof that Barclays had different procedures depending on who
had lost the bankers draft and as F hadnt lost the bankers draft they shouldnt have to take
the risk that the bankers draft could be found and drawn upon at a later date. F said a
member of Barclays staff had told them that they were able to cancel a bankers draft.
F asked five questions to Barclays which they hadnt answered and F wanted an
Ombudsman to consider these points. In summary the first three questions were about
factual information relating to a bankers draft. Question four was regarding if Barclays would
allow Fs client to sign the indemnity so F could get the bankers draft reissued and the last
question was if anyone at Barclays has asked his client that he needs to complete the lost
draft payee bankers indemnity.
F also said his client had complained to Barclays and had been told incorrect information. F
asked for an Ombudsman to get all of the information given from Barclays about F and Fs
clients complaints so the Ombudsman would have all of the information to help make a
decision.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has made a number of points to both Barclays and this service and Ive considered and
read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
The starting point here is that I dont think this service can investigate Fs concerns that
theyve raised around what Barclays have told their client. My role here is to look at Fs
individual complaint and the impact of Barclays actions on it as Barclays customer. So while
Ive considered the wider circumstances here, I will be focusing on the issues here as they
relate to F as Barclays customer. F asked five questions which they said Barclays hadnt
answered. I asked Barclays to respond to these questions which they did. I asked our
investigator to pass the information back to F before issuing this decision to see if there was
anything else they wanted me to consider. As previously mentioned, I wont go into
information relating to what Barclays have told Fs client here so I wont be directly referring
to answers four and five but F does have this information.
F said that had Barclays provided these answers to the first three questions initially to them
and their client then this may have assisted in resolving the issue in the first instance. Im
persuaded that had Barclays been clear from the outset of what a bankers draft is and how
one can be replaced, then the matter may have been able to have been resolved sooner as
Fs client would not have been told conflicting information.
Im satisfied F was told incorrect or contradictory information by Barclays such as how long a
bankers draft is valid for, if it can be cancelled and who needed to complete an indemnity
form. I can understand the inconvenience for F for them telling their client one thing based
on something Barclays said and then being told something else by Barclays.Im satisfied its not fair to ask Barclays or F to sign the indemnity form as neither were
responsible for the loss of the bankers draft here. Barclays have issued the bankers draft in
accordance with the instructions they were given. Likewise, F have fulfilled their duty to send
their client the bankers draft. F sent this via recorded delivery and F says this was signed for
by their client, so it would be unfair for F to put their business at risk to sign the indemnity
without any safeguards in place for them.
Barclays have said that a lost payee banks draft indemnity is completed by the payee bank,
however for the payee bank to provide this indemnity it is most likely they will require an
indemnity from their customer, in this case Fs client. This seems fair as its my
understanding the bankers draft was lost by the overseas bank in their internal mail. The
only person that could benefit from this bankers draft is Fs client, as only Fs client could
draw against the bankers draft.
Barclays have said it was their understanding that Fs client was unwilling to sign an
indemnity form and thats why they suggested F signs the indemnity form and F arranges
their own indemnity with their client. But F says that their client is only unwilling to sign an
indemnity because Barclays told Fs client that it was F that should sign the indemnity form.
Im persuaded that Barclays have misunderstood this point originally and as they say Fs
client isnt a customer of Barclays then they cant reach out to him.
Im persuaded that if Barclays had told F about obtaining the indemnity form from the
overseas bank originally then this could have resolved the matter a lot sooner. By putting the
onus on F to complete the indemnity form then this has inconvenienced F and F has lost the
trust of their client which has complicated matters. Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent F
and this wasnt an option mentioned to them.
Barclays have offered to write a letter to F explaining that Fs clients bank can complete the
indemnity form as F wasnt in possession when the bankers draft was lost, therefore
Barclays can follow their process for a lost draft  payee bankers indemnity as opposed to
their process if F had lost the bankers draft. I think this would go a long way to clarifying
matters. F could then forward a copy of this letter to their client.
Im persuaded Barclays are now trying to help F resolve the issue. I say this as Barclays
have said that if F could obtain the details of the account held by Fs clients overseas bank
and confirm the bank name, they can look to explore whether they hold a corporate
relationship with them (for currency trading purposes). They said they could try to approach
them directly regarding an indemnity. That said we would first need it confirming that the
draft was lost by the overseas bank, as it is not clear if the draft was lost in transit between
Fs client and the bank or if evidence is held that the draft reached the overseas bank
successfully. Barclays also added that there is no guarantee that this would be possible as
this isnt a process or procedure they have in place, but they are trying to explore an option
to attempt to mediate between the disputed parties. Finally, Barclays added that its highly
likely that the overseas bank would request an indemnity from Fs client even if this were an
option. I made F aware of this and they tried to obtain their clients consent to release these
details, but Fs client has stated a desire for them not to be contacted by F.
Another option would be for F to complete the indemnity form and obtain a cross indemnity
from their client. But F has said they arent willing to do this as it would put their business at
risk.
I have to consider the individual circumstances here and the impact on F as a customer. I
dont think I can fairly tell Barclays that it has to pay for Fs time as a business in dealing with
this matter, as part of this situation has been caused by the loss of the bankers draft in thefirst place. That wouldve always involved F having to spend some time sorting this out. But
for the mistakes that Barclays did make  I think its fair that they compensate F for the
inconvenience caused.
Ive noted Fs comments about what they should receive in compensation from Barclays but
Im limited as to what I can award. As our investigator has already explained to F, I cant
award compensation for distress to a business. Barclays have already made an offer of £100
but Im not persuaded this is fair in the circumstances. I say this as F has been
inconvenienced because of Barclays errors Ive previously mentioned and for not being
clearer about the different ways a replacement bankers draft can be issued, even if they
have admitted this and apologised for this. I think £200 would be a fairer reflection of the
inconvenience which F had.
I hope that my provisional decision will help F resolve the bankers draft indemnity issue.
Barclays have offered to write F a letter, which he can send to his client. Im persuaded that
this will be of use to F to show they have acted initially on information from Barclays and will
help explain what happened to the other Ombudsman service they are currently involved
with. I also intend to ask Barclays to pay Mr F £200 for the inconvenience caused for the
reasons Ive already mentioned.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted my provisional decision. F made a number of points. In 
summary they want Barclays to pay their costs as F had appointed another person to deal 
with their complaint on behalf of F. F has said if Barclays would pay them £3,500 then they 
would accept full and final settlement of the complaint. 
F has said if Barclays decide that they will not make this contribution towards them, 
then the F will take further advice to issue at court to recover these direct losses
from Barclays through the courts. 
F also asked that the letter I ask Barclays to write sets out that Barclays gave the Firm 
incorrect advice and that at no point has F lied to their client or simply refused to action his 
request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what F has said about Barclays meeting their costs. It may help if I explain to 
F that as an informal dispute resolution service our rewards for inconvenience are generally 
modest. In the individual circumstances of this complaint Im persuaded that £200 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience to F.
I appreciate that F wishes to claim substantially more redress than I am willing to award 
here. In my provisional decision I explained that I have to consider the individual 
circumstances here and the impact on F as a customer and that I am limited in the amount I 
can award. I dont think I can fairly tell Barclays that it has to pay for Fs time as a business 
in dealing with this matter, as part of this situation has been caused by the loss of the 
bankers draft in the first place. That wouldve always involved F having to spend some time 
sorting this out. But in addition, F has chosen to appoint a third party to deal with the 
complaint on their behalf which F did not have to do.  So I remind F that they do not have to 
accept my decision and may pursue this matter by alternative means, including court, if they 
wish.Ive thought about what F have said about the letter I will be asking Barclays to write for 
them. Im persuaded it would be unfair for Barclays to write that at no point has F lied to their 
client or simply refused to action his request unless Barclays agree to do so. I say this as 
Barclays would not have been involved in every interaction with F and their client  although 
I must stress that I have seen no evidence that F has done any of those things. But Im 
persuaded that F had passed onto their client the information that Barclays did originally give 
F and this should be reflected in the letter that Barclays write to F. And I do think the letter 
which Barclays will write to them will help F show the other Ombudsman that F are involved 
with that F are not at fault here and F has acted upon information they were originally given 
by Barclays.
In summary, Fs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know F will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Barclays should pay F £200 for the inconvenience 
they suffered by telling their client what Barclays had originally told them. I also suggested 
that Barclays write F a letter outlining that F acted initially on information from Barclays and 
explain clearly the different ways that a replacement bankers draft can be issued, including 
Barclays offer to try and work with the overseas bank if Fs client gives them the information 
they need. The letter should also include that a bankers draft cant be simply just cancelled, 
and Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay F £200 for inconvenience. They should also write F a 
letter outlining that F acted initially on information from Barclays and explain clearly the 
different ways that a replacement bankers draft can be issued, including Barclays offer to try 
and work with the overseas bank if Fs client gives them the information they need. The letter 
should also include that a bankers draft cant be simply just cancelled  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman