DRN-2841291
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1992. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs 
complaint. This is because the policy would not have paid a claim that arose from a pre-
existing medical condition. And I think its likely that Nationwide didnt properly draw this to 
the attention of Mrs and Mr R. I think this information would have been important to them, 
because Mr R (the person covered) had suffered for several years from a significant medical 
condition. Mr R told us, when first complaining to us, that this had led to a major operation 
some years before, and to him having to take 6 months off work. The condition also caused 
medical intervention and time off work in the years after the PPPI started. 
He has sent us some supporting information to back up his account of what happened, and I 
consider his account of his medical history to be convincing. 
Nationwide says that the exclusion in the policy was drawn to Mrs and Mr Rs attention in a 
leaflet they would have been given, and in the more detailed policy terms. But I cant be sure 
the leaflet was given to Mrs and Mr R, or that they were encouraged to read it. And if they 
did read it, I dont think its likely theyd have spotted or fully understood what the leaflet (or 
the policy document) said about the exclusion. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Mrs and Mr R were familiar with such insurance policies, and 
so they wouldnt have known to look out for such loop holes within the leaflet. And the 
actual wording wasnt very prominent; nor was it, in my view, particularly clear. 
Nationwide has referred me to a PDF copy of the leaflet it used at the time. Im not sure how 
it was folded and presented. But it appears to have been an eight-sided booklet, and the 
wording about the exclusion would, it seems, have been on the last page before the cover. 
The actual section on exclusions starts on the previous page, under a heading in bold saying 
Are There Any Exclusions?; and this goes on to list the nine main ones of 
disablement/unemployment for less than 90 days, self-inflicted injuries, pregnancy related 
conditions, and war risks. Then, on the next page, the list continues with: 5. Medical 
conditions that the borrower has suffered from or been aware of during the 12 months before 
taking out the insurance. There are then four more exclusions listed underneath. 
I dont think the positioning in the leaflet, or within the list of exclusions, of such an important 
restriction in the policy, is ideal. And there are no warnings, earlier on in the leaflet, to alert 
the customer that they need to be cautious  mainly it is information about the benefits of the 
policy and how it works. And I dont think the phrase, been aware of during the 12 months 
before, is clear. Would many people think this meant only conditions that they had been 
aware of, in the sense of flaring up, in the previous 12 months? This may not have 
happened to Mr R  he may not actively have suffered from the condition or been aware of 
it, in the previous 12 months. But it was still a major factor in his health history that he is 
likely to have feared recurring in the future.  
It is only in the fuller policy document that it says less ambiguously, that you were aware of 
on the date of signing the application It wasnt reasonable for Nationwide to have relied 
on its customers reading that more formal document. 
Overall I think its unlikely the exclusion was properly drawn to Mrs and Mr Rs attention in a 
way they were likely to understand fully. I dont think theyd have bought the PPI if it had 
been.
 
Putting things right
 Nationwide should put Mrs R and Mr R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mrs R and Mr R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs R and Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mrs R and Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs R and Mr R compensation in accordance 
with the calculation of redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman