DRN-3820612
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for transactions he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S opened an account with Barclays on 31 January 2022. 
On 29 April, he contacted Barclays to report a number of transactions which he said he 
hadnt made. These went back about a month, from 1 April to 28 April. Some were smaller 
transactions for around £20, and there were three payments to a hotel for between £134.10 
and £169.80. The total disputed was £508.28.
Barclays gave Mr S a temporary credit while it investigated. On 5 May, it declined his claims, 
and Mr S complained. 
On 10 May, Barclays issued its final response to Mr Ss complaint. It said that:
- There had been more than 200 matches for the IP address (a unique computer 
identifier). This meant that the IP address used to make the disputed payments was 
the same as one which Mr S had used regularly; 
- There had been credits into the account, including one from a third party, with a 
reference hotel money;
- After the reported transactions, there had been no further attempts to use the card, 
and no attempts to empty the account. This wasnt typical fraudster behaviour. 
So Barclays refused to refund Mr S.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said the debits had made him 
overdrawn by over £500. He said hed phoned Barclays to arrange a payment plan but he 
couldnt afford to pay because he was on benefits. He said the debits had caused him 
emotional distress. As an outcome, Mr S wanted an affordable payment plan, or his 
overdraft written off and the account closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said she thought it was most likely that 
Mr S had authorised the disputed transactions. And she explained that as Mr S hadnt raised 
a complaint about payment plans in his complaint to Barclays, we couldnt consider it.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt authorise the transactions, and as he was on benefits he 
couldnt afford to spend that money in a hotel. He said that this service was completely 
biased and didnt take into account the fact that he couldnt afford the disputed transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill set out what I can and cant look at. This service is governed by rules set out by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). One of these rules means that we can only 
look at complaints which a customer has already referred to the financial business, so it can 
respond to the complaint. If the customer and financial business cant find a solution, the 
customer can refer to this service. Here, Mr S did complain to Barclays about the disputed 
transactions, and Barclays sent him its final response letter on 10 May. So I can consider his 
complaint about the disputed transactions. But Ive seen nothing to show that Mr S formally 
complained to Barclays about payment plans. I can see that Barclays provided two phone 
numbers for Mr S to ring about that, so Mr Ss next step about that topic would be to get in 
touch with Barclays, and if necessary complain. But until thats happened, this service 
doesnt have the legal jurisdiction to consider anything to do with payment plans. So this 
decision is only about the transactions which Mr S disputed and to which Barclays replied in 
its final response letter on 10 May.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in April 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Barclays has provided evidence to show 
that the disputed payments were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive gone on to look at whether I 
think its more likely than not that Mr S authorised the disputed payments. The outcome of a 
dispute about payments is decided by whether or not the customer authorised the payments. 
I note that Mr S has said we should take into account whether he could afford the money, 
but thats not how the regulations say it works. What matters is whether or not Mr S 
authorised the payments.
Theres technical computer evidence available to inform my decision. This shows that the IP 
address used for the payments had previously been used regularly by Mr S, both before and 
after the disputed payments. So I cant see how any third party could have made them, as 
an IP address is a unique identifier. 
The disputed transactions were also made using the device which had been registered to Mr 
Ss mobile banking profile, and was registered as his mobile number, when hed opened the 
account. And the mobile banking application was accessed for the transactions using his five 
digit security code. Mr S told Barclays that he hadnt disclosed this information to anyone 
else. 
The computer evidence also shows that Mr S logged on to his Barclays account regularly 
between 1 April, when the first disputed transaction took place, and 29 April, when he 
reported it. He logged on almost every day, and sometimes more than once a day. So hed 
have seen the disputed transactions as soon as they happened  but he didnt report any of 
them until 29 April. I cant understand why, when he regularly checked his account, he 
wouldnt have reported the disputed transactions sooner, if he genuinely hadnt authorised 
them.
In view of so much computer evidence, I cant see how anyone other than Mr S can have 
authorised the disputed transactions. But Ive also looked at other factors.
Mr S said that as hes on benefits, he wouldnt have spent money on a hotel. But there were 
two credits into his account around this time, both of which were unusual for his account. 
One was a credit of £279.57, from a third party with the same surname as Mr S. The other 
was a credit of £134.10, from a different third party with the same surname as Mr S, and that 
payment was labelled hotel money. So it looks as if these third parties may have sent 
money towards Mr Ss hotel costs.Ive also considered the pattern of the transactions. Its not typical behaviour for any third 
party fraudster to make payments gradually over a month  theyd typically try to empty the 
account immediately. And there were no further attempts to make transactions after Mr S 
reported the disputed transactions  when a fraudster couldnt have known that a block had 
been put on the account.   
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr S carried out 
the disputed transactions himself. So I dont require Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman