DRN-1532716
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1996 when she took out a store card.
A third party sold the PPI to Mrs B. But Allianz Insurance Plc as the insurer has accepted 
responsibility for this sale and by extension this complaint. For the purposes of this 
decision Ive referred throughout to Allianz.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a charge card by completing 
an application form in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because:
           I think Allianz made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because the application form used at the time of sale required Mrs B to tick 
a box on the application form to say that she wanted the cover. Mrs B then signed the 
application form. So after seeing this, I can't be sure what was discussed at the time, but i 
think its more likely she was given a choice and agreed to it by signing the form. 
 
           Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave enough clear information about the policy so 
that Mrs B could make an informed decision.
 
           Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But i think she would have taken the policy anyway. I say this because 
although she says she had savings at the time, i think she would have benefited from the 
cover provided. I think she would have found some use for having it in a time of need. It is 
also unlikely Mrs B would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Mrs B says she doesn't remember being advised of the PPI policy and Allianz cannot prove 
that the person she spoke to in store, didn't follow the correct procedure. I acknowledge 
these comments, but they dont change the outcome of this complaint. As Mrs B completed 
the application form I am persuaded she would have been able to decide whether she 
wanted to have the policy by ticking the box and then signing for it. 
In conclusion, I couldnt find a reason to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
 
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman