DRN-3621015
Complaint
Mr T has complained about loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr T with an initial loan for £3,000.00 in July 2009. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £130. In March 2012, Mr T 
approached Everyday Loans for further funds. This time he was provided with a loan for 
£4,000.00 and this loan was due to be repaid in 34 monthly payments of just under £185.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr T and Everyday Loans had told us. He thought 
that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided these loans and recommended that Mr Ts 
complaint be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
My provisional decision of 11 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 11 July 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Ts complaint. 
I went on to explain that Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this meant it needed to carry out proportionate checks 
to be able to understand whether Mr T could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans said it agreed to Mr Ts applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against credit 
searches it carried out and copies of payslips and bank statements which Mr T was asked to 
provide. In its view, all of this information showed Mr T could comfortably make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr T said he was in financial difficulty 
and couldnt afford these loans.
I carefully thought about what Mr T and Everyday Loans said. 
I started out by acknowledging that these loans were provided a number of years ago. 
Therefore, quite understandably, there wasnt that much information remaining from the 
time. That said, it was clear that Everyday Loans asked Mr T to provide copies of payslips 
and bank statements. 
The limited information available from Everyday Loans credit search at the time of loan 1 
also appeared to show that Mr Ts existing debts were relatively well managed. Equally, 
having reviewed the bank statements obtained, I couldnt see anything on them which 
indicated Mr T wouldnt be able to make the repayments. The income going into Mr Ts 
account broadly matched his declaration and there wasnt anything to suggest the 
expenditure calculation was incorrect either.  
I did accept that the balances on Mr Ts existing revolving credit accounts were towards the 
maximum amount he had available to him at the time of loan 1. But while our investigator 
was concerned about this, the proceeds of this loan were enough to clear all of these 
balances. So I simply didnt agree that it was inevitable that this loan was clearly going to 
increase Mr Ts indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. In my 
view, Mr T could have cleared his indebtedness at this stage had he wished to do so.
I was also mindful that loan 2 was for a little more than the amount advanced for loan 1. But 
loan 2 was taken when loan 1 still had a couple of months to run. And when the proportion of 
loan 2 being used to settle loan 1 was taken into account, the amount being borrowed wasnt 
that much more. I think thought this was significant bearing in mind that the limited 
information still available from the time also showed that the monthly payments were 
affordable and Mr T hadnt provided anything himself which clearly demonstrated this wasnt 
the case.
I considered that Mr T said he experienced difficulty making the payments. And I 
acknowledged that the reason why might have been because he did go on to re-establish 
balances on his revolving credit accounts. But Everyday Loans could only make a 
reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time.  As this was the 
case, I didnt think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr T - it 
carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested 
the repayments were affordable and it also took steps to mitigate the possibility of Mr Ts 
indebtedness increasing unsustainably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I intended to issue a final decision which found 
that Everyday Loans didnt treat Mr T unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his 
loans. And this means that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, or asked for any further time to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. And as neither 
party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I do appreciate this decision is likely to be very disappointing for Mr T. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 11 July 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman