DRN-3931015
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with an unaffordable 
loan. 
Background
L2G provided Mrs M with a loan for £2,000 in June 2021. This loan had an APR of 253.7% 
and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £5,791.92, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £3,791.92, was due to be repaid in 24 instalments of 
just over £240. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable.
L2G disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs M would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs M prior to 
providing her with her loan. It also carried out credit checks. Mrs M declared that she was 
earning around £1,900.00 a month. L2G checks suggested her income was around this 
amount and her expenditure was around £1,450.00. This left Mrs M with enough to cover the 
payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2Gs credit checks clearly show that          
Mrs M was towards the limit on her revolving credit accounts. The credit check also shows 
that L2G ought to have been aware that Mrs M had history of use of high-cost credit. Im also 
concerned that L2G didnt pick up on some of the transactions in the bank statements 
obtained at the time either.Bearing all of this in mind and L2Gs calculation of Mrs Ms disposable income didnt leave 
that much left over once the payments to this loan were factored in, I think that L2G needed 
to take steps to verify Mrs Ms actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mrs M with her loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mrs M
would have been unable to repay her loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mrs M would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mrs M could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mrs M was 
borrowing further to repay previous loans. Her income was pretty much being used to meet 
her living costs and commitments to existing creditors. So I think that proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown L2G that Mrs M was unlikely to be able to make her 
payments without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs M would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mrs M was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Mrs M paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Mrs M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs M paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs M to the date of settlementremoving any adverse information it may have recorded about this loan from Mrs Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give   
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman