DRN-2549876
The complaint
Mr M complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118118 Money, allowed a loan to 
be taken out in this name without his consent. 
What happened
On the 3 July 2019 an account was created with a third party credit broker site Ill call T, and 
via this account on the same day an application was made for a loan with 118118 Money in 
Mr Ms name for £3,000. 
This loan was approved and paid into Mr Ms account with a third party bank Ill call N. Within 
four hours of the loan being approved the majority had been spent via chip and PIN 
transactions  including via a currency conversion business Ill call E. 
On the same day two further payments for £1,000 were attempted via online banking  
however these were blocked by bank N. Soon after these payments were stopped Bank N 
sent Mr M an email to advise of a suspicious transaction. The following day Mr M contacted 
bank N to advise his debit card had been lost. 
Mr M explained that after contacting Bank N he went on holiday, before returning and using 
his new online banking details accessed his account towards the end of July. On the 
27 July 2019 Mr M transferred £750 of the loan funds to another of his bank accounts, with a 
bank Ill call L. 
Mr M has explained that on the 29 June 2019 he was on a night out with friends when he 
lost his wallet and phone  which included his debit card with Bank N, along with his PIN, 
and his driving licence. He explained that the phone hed lost was borrowed  and on the 
phone his online banking security details were saved for Bank N. He advised that the phone 
had a passcode however this was easily guessable. 
Mr M initially explained that hed also lost his debit card with Bank L, and he cancelled this 
on the same night  however he later advised our investigator that he thinks he didnt have 
his card with Bank L in his wallet at the time. 
Mr M advised that he didnt contact Bank N to advise his card had been lost because he 
didnt have any funds in his account, therefore he didnt think it was necessary. And he didnt 
order a new driving licence because he uses his passport for identification.
 
Mr M explained that he didnt make the application to 118118 Money and he first found out 
about the loan on the 1 August 2019 when the first payment was taken out. 
Mr M complained to 118118 Money however they didnt uphold this complaint. In summary 
118118 Money explained that theres no evidence that the loan was taken out fraudulently, 
and theyd be holding Mr M liable for the debt.
Mr M wasnt happy with 118118 Moneys response so complained to our service. He 
explained he was very stressed and worried about the situation, and was concerned with 
demand letters hed received from 118118 Money regarding the loan. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He contacted both Bank N and 
Bank L to gather further information about the activity on Mr Ms bank accounts. Our 
investigator also contacted the currency conversion business, E, however they didnt reply. 
After receiving information from both banks our investigator concluded that 118118 Money 
had acted fairly. In summary, he thought this because:
Bank N have no record that Mr M disputed any of the transactions on his account, 
and the behaviour on the account isnt what hed expect from a fraudster.  
Bank L have no record that Mr M cancelled his debit card on the 29 June 2019, as 
hed advised. 
Mr M partially benefited from the loan funds.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. And in response he said:
The email address and phone number used for the loan arent his. 
No information has been provided from the currency conversion business, E. 
Its hard for him to remember everything that happened at the time. 
Its not clear what information was required to open an account with T  and 
everything a fraudster would likely need was contained in his wallet. 
His financial circumstances shouldnt have allowed him to take out the loan. 
Because Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For 118118 Money to hold Mr M liable for the debt, they need to evidence that on balance 
Mr M took out or consented to the loan. In considering my conclusions Ive thought about the 
checks 118118 Money carried out on approving the loan and what happened to the funds 
once the loan was paid.  
Ive considered whether I think its likely Mr M took out the loan with 118118 Money, and I 
understand Mr M will be disappointed with my conclusions. However, on balance Im 
satisfied its likely he did. And Ill explain my reasons below:
To apply for a loan with 118118 Money, a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Ms personal details. These include his name, date of birth and home address. 
Mr M explained that on the 29 June 2019 he lost his wallet, including his driving 
licence. And he believes this is likely how a fraudster gained access to his personal 
details. Our investigator asked Mr M for evidence he received a replacement licence, 
however Mr Ms advised he didnt order one because he uses alternative forms of 
identification. 
Mr M initially informed our service that his debit card with Bank L was in his lost 
wallet  and hed contacted Bank L to notify them of them lost card. However, Ive 
seen evidence from Bank L showing the card wasnt cancelled as Mr M advises. 
Mr Ms since explained that he was confused, and his Bank L card must not have been in his wallet, so he didnt need to cancel it.  
Once the loan was approved payment was made into Mr Ms bank account with 
Bank N. Mr Ms explained that his debit card with Bank N  and his PIN  was in the 
wallet he lost on the 29 June 2019. However, based on the evidence Ive seen from 
Bank N no transactions were attempted by a fraudster until the 3 July 2019. This isnt 
how Id expect a fraudster to act on obtaining a victims debit card and PIN. 
Two online bank transfers were attempted, using the loan funds, via Mr Ms account 
with Bank N. To attempt these transfers a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Ms online banking information  Mr M says this was available via the phone he 
lost on the 29 June 2019. Hes explained the passcode was easily guessable  and 
he didnt report it lost due to the phone being borrowed. And therefore he wasnt 
concerned. Even if I accept a fraudster would have been able to guess his passcode, 
and access the phone I find it surprising that Mr M decided not to report his phone 
lost, or contact Bank N to reset his online banking details in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at the online banking information provided by Bank N. And as identified 
by our investigator, I can see that the same IP address was used to log in to Mr Ms 
account in June 2019 and on the 3 and 4 July 2019  when the online transfers using 
the loan funds were attempted. Considering the IP address is the same, it seems 
likely that whoever logged in at the start of July 2019, also logged in before Mr M lost 
his online banking details.   
Mr M explained that on logging into his online banking with Bank N on the 
27 July 2019 he noticed his account had available funds. He thought this was related 
to the suspicious activity Bank N were referring to, and decided to transfer out £750 
worth of funds to Bank L. I find these actions very unusual considering Mr M thought 
he had a zero balance when he lost his debit card, and he doesnt have any regular 
credits into the account. On checking his statements, prior to the credit of £3,000 on 
the 3 July 2019, Mr M was over his overdraft limit. Therefore, Im unsure where Mr M 
thought the £750 had come from, why he thought he was entitled to the funds and 
didnt notify Bank N about the unusual credit. 
Ive considered the response Mr M gave to our investigators view. And hes raised a number 
of valid points. I havent addressed all of these, but those which I think are the most relevant 
and important to my conclusions. These include that the contact details  the email address 
and phone number  provided to T and 118118 Money werent his. Its true that the contact 
details provided are different to the details Mr Ms provided our service and Bank N. 
However, this doesnt mean the new email address and phone number were created without 
Mr Ms knowledge or consent. And based on the factors Ive outlined above on balance I 
think its likely Mr M was aware of the newly created contact details. 
Mr M has also supplied evidence that he was at work at the time of some of the account 
activity on the 3 July 2019. However, it isnt my role here to determine if Mr M completed the 
transactions himself on the 3 July 2019  instead whether on balance I think he consented to 
the loan. And knew the funds entered his account. Although Mr Ms evidenced that he 
couldnt have carried out these transactions himself, its possible Mr M could have 
authorised a third party to carry out the transactions.  
Mr Ms also raised that his financial circumstances shouldnt have allowed him to be 
approved for the loan. Ive not considered the affordability of Mr Ms loan  because Mr Ms 
complaint about 118118 Money was that the loan was taken out without his consent, rather 
than it was unaffordable. However, Ive seen evidence from 1181118 Money that Mr Ms 
identity was checked, his bank account details were confirmed and a credit check was also 
completed. And Im satisfied that sufficient checks were completed to verify Mr Ms identity. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think 118118 Money are entitled to hold Mr M liable for 
the debt. As 118118 Money will be aware, Id expect them to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically when discussing arrangements for repayment of the debt. Id also 
encourage Mr M to contact 118118 Money to make suitable and affordable arrangements.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman