DRN-4161287
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, is unhappy with the service it received from TSB 
Bank plc which it feels directly led to its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) being defaulted.
Ps complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr D.
What happened
P is a property business. In November 2020, Mr D successfully applied to TSB on Ps behalf 
for a £50,000 BBL, and P received the loan funds shortly thereafter.
In July 2022, with the BBL account in a position of arrears following missed payments, Mr D 
called TSB and requested a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) capital repayment holiday, whereby 
P would only be required to pay the interest payments on the BBL for the next six months. 
The PAYG capital repayment holiday was agreed, and it was explained to Mr D verbally by 
TSB that the payment due in August 2022 would be an interest only payment of £106.75.
Mr D arranged for £107 to be present in Ps business bank account to cover the August 
2022 payment of £106.75. But the payment failed due to insufficient funds because the 
correct interest only payment amount was £107.91. This missed payment, in conjunction 
with previous missed payments, led TSB to issue a final demand to P on 7 September 2022.
Mr D spoke with TSB about the final demand and discussed the payments that P would be 
required to make when the PAYG capital repayment holiday ended. TSBs agent quoted a 
monthly payment amount of £529.38. However, this was incorrect, and the correct monthly 
amount that P would need to have made was £585. Mr D wasnt happy about this, or the 
previous incorrect payment amount information TSB had given him, especially as TSB then 
moved to default Ps BBL. So, he raised a complaint on Ps behalf.
TSB responded to Mr D and apologised for their agents giving him the incorrect information 
over the phone. But TSB noted that the correct information had been sent to P in the letters 
that followed the conversations, and they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by 
defaulting Ps BBL as they had. Mr D wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred 
Ps complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel TSB had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation and felt the £25 compensation that TSB had paid to P 
for the verbal provision of the incorrect payment information already represented a fair 
outcome to that aspect of Ps complaint. Furthermore, our investigator noted that Mr D 
appeared to have given inaccurate information to TSB on Ps BBL application, such that P 
had never been entitled to receive a BBL in the first instance. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr D feels that the only reason TSB had cause to issue the final demand to P in September 
2023 was because their agent incorrectly told him that the next payment that P would need 
to make towards the BBL would be £106.75, when in fact it was £107.91. And because Mr D 
was told that the required payment would be £106.75, he only credited Ps account from 
which the BBL payments were being made with £107  which was enough to cover the 
amount hed been incorrectly told but not enough to cover the correct payment amount.
In response, TSB note that while Mr D was incorrectly told that the next payment amount 
would be £106.75, a confirmation letter was sent to P following the call with Mr D that 
included a payment schedule for the PAYG capital repayment holiday which correctly gave 
the next payment amount as being £107.91. And TSB feel that it was Mr Ds responsibility as 
the director of P to have reviewed that letter and understood the correct payment amount 
that P was required to make.
Mr D argues that P didnt receive the letter that TSB sent. However, when Mr D spoke with 
TSB the following month  having received the final demand letter sent to P by TSB  he 
questioned TSBs agent when they incorrectly told him that the payment amount when the 
PAYG plan ends will be £530 and said that his understanding was that it would be £584.64. 
And this £584.64 amount was provided to Mr D via the payment confirmation letter sent by 
the agent who incorrectly told Mr D that the PAYG payment would be £106.75, which Mr D 
has said he didnt receive.
Of course, it may be the case that Mr D became aware of the £584.64 post-PAYG plan 
payment amount by other means, such as by checking Ps BBL account via online banking. 
But I also feel that Mr D, as the director of P, should have checked Ps PAYG payment 
amounts via online banking or other similar channels before crediting Ps account with the 
money to make the PAYG payment. And I feel that this is especially the case if Mr D 
intended to only credit Ps account with just enough money to cover the PAYG interest-only 
payment he believed P had to make, as appears to have been the case.
So, Im not convinced that the provision of incorrect information by TSBs telephone agents 
did directly lead to the defaulting of Ps BBL as Mr D contends here. And this is because I 
feel that it was incumbent on Mr D, in line with his responsibilities as a director of P, to have 
confirmed the payment amount that P was required to make, either via the letter P received 
(if it was received) or via other channels.
Additionally, TSB, like all BBL lenders, are entitled to review information given to them by 
applicant businesses in their BBL applications, to check whether an applicant business was 
entitled to receive the BBL it attested it was eligible to receive in the submitted application. 
And, in this instance, TSB feel that P may not have been eligible to receive the £50,000 BBL 
that Mr D applied for, and which P subsequently received.
This is because one of the eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme was that an applicant 
business could apply for a BBL amount no greater that 25% of its annual turnover. In Ps 
BBL application, Mr D attested that P did have business turnover in excess of £200,000 per 
annum  as required of P for it to be eligible to receive the £50,000 BBL Mr D applied for.But Ps annual accounts, as per Companies House, dont appear to corroborate Mr Ds 
attestation that Ps business turnover was in excess of £200,000 at that time. Indeed, 
Companies House shows that Mr D filed dormant accounts for P at that time, such that P 
had zero turnover, and was thus ineligible to receive the BBL it applied for. 
Both TSB and this service have asked Mr D to provide proof of Ps eligibility to have received 
the £50,000 that Mr D applied for. However, to date, Mr D hasnt provided such proof to 
either TSB or this service. As such, even if I were to feel that the verbal provision of incorrect 
information to Mr D by TSBs agents could be considered the sole contributing factor as to 
why Ps BBL had been defaulted by TSB  which for the sake of clarity, I confirm that I do 
not  then I still wouldnt instruct TSB to reinstate Ps BBL as Mr D would like here. And this 
is because it appears that P wasnt eligible to have received the BBL in the first instance.
All of which means that I feel that the present situation here as it stands  including that Ps 
BBL was defaulted by TSB  is a fair outcome given the circumstances as Ive described 
them above. And I also feel that the £25 payment that TSB made to P for the verbal 
provision of incorrect payment information already provides fair compensation to P for the 
provision of that incorrect information.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing TSB to take any different or further action here. I trust that Mr D 
will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman