DRN-3078156
The complaint
Ms E says Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her irresponsibly. Ms E says that she 
couldnt afford the loan repayments due to the amount of other lending she had. She thinks 
that STL should have found out about this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about 13 home collected loans STF provided to Ms E sometime before 
2014 and up to October 2016. STF doesnt have start and end dates for the first four loans. It 
does have the amount and term of them. Some of the information I have been provided 
about the lending is in the table below.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1  £100 10  
2  £150 15  
3  £250 15  
4  £300 16  
5 02/07/2014 £350 16 24/10/2014
6 05/11/2014 £450 16 25/02/2015
7 03/03/2015 £500 16 25/06/2015
8 30/06/2015 £550 16 23/10/2015
9 27/10/2015 £650 16 25/02/2016
10 01/03/2016 £700 16 25/07/2016
11 09/08/2016 £700 16 25/11/2016
12 04/10/2016 £150 25 28/07/2017
13 06/12/2016 £700 16 25/02/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that STF was acting incorrectly 
when it approved loans 1 to 5. But he thought that by loan 6 it was likely that Ms E was 
reliant on the lending, and so STF shouldnt have continued to lend to her. 
STF disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the lending was reasonable, and it 
adhered to the rules and guidelines of the time. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that STF should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Es complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Ms E didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 5. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment in detail 
about this lending other than to say Im not persuaded the business lent irresponsibly for 
these loans. 
And they are something I will consider when thinking about the other loans Ms E took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 13 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of STFs lending 
history with Ms E, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which STF should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so STF should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Es case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point STF ought to have realised Ms E was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms E had taken out six loans. And whilst I dont have exact start and end dates, as these were longer term loans, its reasonable to assume the lending 
relationship had existed for some time by loan 6. 
Ms Es first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for £450. This is a significant increase 
and so at this point STF ought to have known that Ms E was likely borrowing to meet 
an ongoing, and increasing, need. 
From loan 6 onwards Ms E was provided with a new loan within a few weeks of 
settling a previous one. Sometimes she had more than one loan running at once.
Because of the above factors STF ought to have realised Ms Fs lending was 
unsustainable.
Ms E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 13 was 
taken out sometime past two years after Ms Es first. And it was for a much larger 
amount. Ms E had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STF 
over an extended period.
I think that Ms E lost out because STF continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Es indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms E borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Es ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 13 and STF should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms E from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Ms E loans 6 to 13.A) STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms E towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms E 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) STF should pay Ms E the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Es borrowing for loans 6 to 13 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Es credit file. If 
STF has sold any of the loans STF should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. STF should give 
Ms E a certificate showing how much tax STF has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Es complaint.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman