DRN-1564482
 
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) didnt instruct the valuation for 
her property purchase until it was chased up.
What happened
Mrs T had a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with TMW. On 30 January 2019 her broker submitted 
an application for the mortgage to be ported to a new BTL property.
TMW completed the initial underwriting checks on 4 February but then neglected to instruct 
the valuation.
 
Nothing further happened until Mrs Ts broker contacted TMW on 25 February at which time 
the valuation was instructed.
The valuation was carried out on 6 March, the mortgage offer was issued on 8 March, and 
the mortgage then completed on 26 March 2019.
Unhappy with the delay Mrs T complained to TMW. It apologised and paid £50 
compensation. Mrs T said that wasnt enough; she said she lost out on £600 in rent due to 
the delay.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said he couldnt consider the loss of rent as 
he wasnt satisfied there was sufficient proof Mrs T could have rented the property out 
sooner. But he thought TMWs offer was too low and said £150 was more appropriate. 
Neither side agreed and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there was a delay in the valuation being instructed. The valuation 
could have been instructed on 4 February (when the initial underwriting checks were 
completed) rather than 25 February (when it was chased up). Thats a delay of three weeks.
Mrs T has said she could have rented the property out sooner and provided an email from 
her current tenant to say they would have moved in sooner if the property had been 
available. Whilst Ive taken that into account I must in mind there are no certainties in any of 
this.
For example, the other people in the chain may not have wanted - or been in a position - to 
complete before 26 March. Or Mrs Ts solicitor may not have been able to complete before 
26 March. After the offer was issued the solicitor took two-and-a-half weeks to complete; that 
could have been done in less time if everything had been ready to go. Mrs T then took a 
week after completion to get a letting agent in to view the property. It was then a further 
three weeks between the tenant being found and them moving in. And before all this there 
was over a week between the valuation being instructed and the report being completed.
Thats not to say I think any of those parties did anything wrong in the other delays, Im just 
pointing out the inequalities in what Mrs T is saying. Its not fair to say TMWs three weeks of 
delay cost her a months rent, when the other parties could also have undertaken their parts 
more quickly. Mrs T has placed all the weight on the three-week delay by TMW without any 
consideration on the other factors of a property sale and purchase. It may be all the other 
parties would have been ready to complete sooner if the mortgage valuation (and therefore 
offer) were completed sooner. But theres too many variables involved for me to be able to 
say that with any certainty such that Id need to if I were to award Mrs T the loss of rent shes 
asking for. For that reason, I dont award Mrs T the loss of rent shes claimed.
From there Ive considered the level of compensation thats due. TMW has already paid £50 
and it said it didnt think the extra £100 recommended by our investigator is commensurate 
to what Mrs T was requesting. 
Despite everything Ive said above, there was a clear failing here by TMW that led to an 
avoidable three-week delay. And if Mrs Ts broker hadnt chased this up it seems the error 
wouldnt have been noticed. Ive considered the level of compensation very carefully and, 
bearing in mind the level of awards we normally make, Im satisfied the original offer of £50 
was too low. Having considered everything I agree with our investigator that £150 in total (so 
an extra £100 on top of whats already been paid) is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay Mrs T a total of £150 
compensation (less any amount already paid). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman