DRN-3555889
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in 1994.
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy at the same time as applying for the store card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says that the PPI wasnt discussed and that she thought it was a mandatory part of 
having the store card. She says that the application process was very quick and was just a 
sign here exercise.
AXA no longer has a copy of the application form, which is not surprising given how long ago 
the sale was. However, we know the types of forms that AXA was using at the time. These 
contained a separate section for the PPI that provided a brief description of the policy. An 
applicant either had to tick a box, or sign, to select the policy. The wording typically said 
something like only sign this box if you require Account Cover (PPI). Im satisfied that it 
would have been clear from the wording that the PPI was an optional extra.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs B has said. Ive no doubt that Mrs B has provided 
her honest recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if her memory has faded. From what we know of AXAs sales process at the 
time, the PPI was usually presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude that something else happened in this case. On balance, I think that Mrs B 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that the salesperson didnt have to ensure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs B by asking questions about her circumstances.
However, AXA did need to provide Mrs B with sufficient information for her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her. I think Mrs B would have 
known something about the policy  that it would have protected her store card repayments 
if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think 
she would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs B hasnt told us about her employee sick pay entitlement at the time but Im assuming 
she would have received some sick pay over and above statutory sick pay. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs B would 
have received full pay for. Mrs B hasnt told us about having any other means, such as 
savings, to fall back on. Regardless of that, having the policy would have meant that she 
could have retained any savings or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. So I consider that Mrs B had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy.
As I consider that Mrs B probably had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused her to change their mind. So she is no 
worse off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs 
to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman