DRN-3950025
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 28 September 2021. The 
policy was designed to cover various pre-trip and post-departure risks, between 28 
September 2021 and 27 December 2022. 
Mrs R has explained that she was due to travel abroad on 25 December 2021. But she 
needed to cancel her trip. Mrs R had received an organ transplant some years previously, 
and so was in a clinically vulnerable group of people, in relation to the risks of catching 
Coronavirus. Her consultant had advised her that the unexpected emergence of the Omicron 
variant at that time meant she should not travel. 
As Mrs R had cancelled her trip, she contacted Great Lakes, to make a claim for her losses 
in relation to this.
Great Lakes considered Mrs Rs claim, and declined it. It said there was no cancellation 
cover under the policy for cancellation due to a new variant of Coronavirus. And, it said the 
policy specifically excluded the disincliniation to travel. 
Mrs R didnt consider this to be fair. She noted she wasnt cancelling the policy because of a 
disinclinication to travel. But instead was cancelling due to medical advice from her 
consultant. Mrs R also said that her transplant was declared on her policy, and accepted by 
Great Lakes. Mrs R also said her policy didnt provide cover if she travelled against medical 
advice  so she couldnt have gone on holiday, acting against this policy term.
Great Lakes maintained its position on the matter. As Mrs R remained unhappy, she referred 
her complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They noted that 
whilst the terms of Mrs Rs policy didnt provide cover for her loss, a strict interpretation of 
the policy wording didnt seem fair and reaosnable in the circumstances. 
Our investigator said that Mrs R wouldnt have been covered by her policy if she had 
travelled against the medical advice agiven to her. And she wasnt covered for cancelling her 
holiday because of acting on such advice, which didnt seem fair. And so the reasonable 
outcome would be for Great Lakes to deal with the claim. 
Mrs R agreed with our investigators view. But, Great Lakes didnt. It said the circumstances 
of Mrs Rs claim didnt fall into something listed in the policy as covered. And so, it was 
satisfied it had declined the claim correctly, in line with these terms.
Because Great Lakes didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing for Mrs R. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered all of the information provided 
them when arriving at my intended decision. And Ill consider any new information or 
evidence I receive in response to this provisional decision.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mrs Rs claim. And Im 
satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mrs Rs policy documentation. This explains that there is cover under the 
policy for the need to cancel a trip. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, 
the reason the trip was cancelled must be a reason listed in the policy, for the cover to 
respond. If the trip was cancelled due to any other reason, there is no cover under the policy, 
and a claim wouldnt be settled.
Ive looked to see what cancellation reasons there are in Mrs Rs policy. These include 
circumstances such as illness, being called for jury duty, or Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advice being issued against travel. And in a section of the 
policy specifically related to Covid-19, for cancellation due to circumstances such as 
contracting Covid-19, being denied boarding, or the NHS track and trace system contracting 
the policyholder to say they had to self-isolate.
None of the situations listed in either the general cancellation section, or the specific Covid-
19 section apply to Mrs Rs situation. Mrs Rs trip was cancelled due to medical advice she 
received. As Mrs Rs reason for cancelling the trip isnt a listed reason, Im aware there is no 
cover for the situation Mrs R found herself in. And I dont find Great Lakes did anything 
wrong in declining her claim. 
I understand Mrs R has said that her insurance policy doesnt cover her, if she had decided 
to travel against medical advice. So, if she hadnt followed her consultants advice, had gone 
on holiday and then needed to claim, she wouldnt have been covered. And our investigator 
noted this too. But Im satisfied this doesnt make a different to the outcome of this 
complaint.
When Mrs R purchased her insurance policy, the coronavirus had been a pandemic for 
some time. And to respond to that, Great Lakes had specifically put cover in place for the 
risks it was willing to accept in relation to the pandemic.  As above, the specific cover didnt 
provide for situations where medical advice against travel was given. And Im satisfied the 
policy terms were clear. So, its fair for Great Lakes to act in line with these.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint. So, I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman