DRN-4290232
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the balance on her second charge mortgage with Blemain Finance 
Limited, trading as Together, is higher than it should be, and includes fees and charges 
which should have been refunded. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a second charge mortgage, or secured loan, with Blemain (which now trades 
as Together) in 2007, through a broker. She borrowed £10,000, plus a £1,664 payment 
protection loan, over a term of 25 years, on a variable interest rate. 
On 21 September 2022, Mrs Bs daughter made a complaint to Together on Mrs Bs behalf. 
She complained that Together had said Mrs B had an off schedule balance on the loan 
which Mrs B would need to arrange to repay if the loan were to be cleared by the end of the 
term.
Mrs B and her daughter didnt think this could be right, and said Mrs B hadnt been made 
aware of it before. She had understood that any fees and charges had been refunded when 
a previous complaint was resolved. 
Together said the loan balance was higher than expected because of charges and additional 
interest added over the years due to late or missed payments. It had refunded a number of 
charges in the past, including in 2010 to resolve a previous complaint and also following 
reviews of the loan in 2018, 2019, and 2021. However, some charges remained and 
continued to accrue interest, and other charges had been added. 
Together said it had written to Mrs B notifying her each time it made a charge, but it 
accepted that it hadnt explained the full implications of the off schedule balance until it 
began including information about this on annual statements in 2018. It therefore refunded 
additional interest that had accrued on late payments, totalling £1,605.23, plus £221.40 for 
two charges and interest which it felt it hadnt applied fairly since 2010, and paid Mrs B £100 
by way of compensation. 
Mrs B referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator said he 
couldnt consider fees and charges applied before September 2016, because Mrs B had left 
it too long to complain about those. He looked at what had happened since then, and 
concluded that Together had given a reasonable explanation for the balance and that he 
couldnt fairly recommend it make any further refunds. 
Mrs B didnt accept that conclusion. Her daughter asked for a review, and said there had 
been no missed payments and Together hadnt explained how the off-schedule balance had 
been calculated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I agree with the Investigator that time limits apply to this complaint, which mean I 
cant consider the loan balance and fees and charges applied before 21 September 2016, 
which is six years before Mrs B made this complaint. There are time limits I must apply to all 
complaints which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook at DISP 2.8.2R. 
They say I cant consider complaints made more than six years after the event complained 
of or, if later, more than three years after the consumer knew, or should reasonably have 
known, they had cause to complain  unless the business consents or theres a record of the 
complaint having been received in that period, or there are exceptional circumstances to 
explain the delay in complaining. 
I think Mrs B should reasonably have known about the balance on her loan and the charges 
that were being added from her annual loan statements and the letters Together sent her 
each time it added an additional fee or charge. Ive seen copies of letters from 2016, as well 
as more recently, which notified Mrs B of charges and the reason for them. They also said 
that interest would be added to the charges. Statements set out the loan balance. 
Together hasnt consented to us considering the balance and charges before September 
2016, and I find nothing to indicate that Mrs B couldnt have complained earlier given that 
there are records of complaints about other matters during the relevant period. So I cant set 
aside the usual time limits.
I turn now to the operation of the loan since September 2016. While I recognise that Mrs B 
and her daughter will be very disappointed, and I can see that Mrs B has been making more 
than the original contractual monthly loan payment for quite some time and trying hard to 
manage the loan, I dont find that I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
Ive looked carefully at the history of the loan, and Im satisfied that payments have been 
missed or made late over the years. In 2017, for example, both Mrs B and her daughter had 
multiple conversations with Together about the loan arrears and how much Mrs B could 
afford to increase her payments by. 
The increased loan balance isnt down to Mrs B paying on the 1st of the month rather than 
the original contractual due date of the 26th, as Mrs Bs daughter has asked about. Together 
said in its final response to this complaint that it had refunded the extra interest it had 
charged because of that, and the transaction history Ive seen shows that it has adjusted the 
interest each month to ensure that Mrs B isnt charged extra as a result of making payments 
on the 1st of the month.
The off schedule balance has arisen as a result of payments which have been missed or 
made late over many years. When a payment isnt made on time, extra interest is added to 
the loan for each day the payment is overdue  because the capital balance hasnt reduced 
as expected. This extra interest rolls up over time. There are also charges for some missed 
or late payments, and interest added to those. Where, for example, a direct debit was 
returned unpaid, Together added a fee to the loan which went on to attract interest. The 
terms of the loan entitle the lender to operate it in this way.
So, even though a number of refunds of fees and interest have been made over the years, 
the loan balance has nevertheless increased. The Financial Ombudsman doesnt provide an 
auditing service, and Mrs B and her daughter havent pointed to any particular charges 
which have been wrongly or unfairly applied. Having considered the transaction history of 
the loan, including the refunds during the period I can consider, I find nothing unusual or 
unreasonable about the amounts added to the loan each month. I also dont think that Mrs B 
would have been in a position to clear the off schedule balance, had Together included more information about it on her statements before 2018. The 2017 statement, for example, 
was clear that the loan balance had increased over the year instead of reducing, but Mrs B 
didnt increase her payments the following year.
Together has acknowledged that its communication about the off schedule balance could 
have been clearer and I agree. But, in all the circumstances, I consider that it has paid 
reasonable compensation for that, including taking account of any confusion or 
inconvenience arising from this particular issue. 
Finally, I was sorry to read that Mrs Bs health deteriorated last year. This will affect her 
financial situation, and I remind Together of its obligation to treat her fairly. If Mrs B is 
unhappy with the support she receives she may be able to make a separate complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Blemain Finance Limited, trading as Together, has taken reasonable 
steps to put things right. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman