DRN-3688483
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) closed his account.
Background
In January 2022, HSBC took the decision to close Mr Ms account and it sent Mr M a letter 
confirming that it would be doing so with immediate effect. Mr M complained about HSBCs 
actions. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M remained dissatisfied, Mr M referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr M 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr M, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr M is unhappy 
that HSBC closed his account and that he believes he wasnt responsible for the actions 
which led to this. 
However, each bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to close 
an account and choosing to no longer provide a customer with an account is a commercial 
decision that a bank is entitled to take. And while Mr M is unhappy that his account was 
closed without notice, Ive reviewed HSBCs actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of his account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that HSBC had sufficient grounds to close Mr Ms account and as such its 
decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that HSBCs decision will have been 
very disappointing to Mr M and I can appreciate why the closure of his account will have 
caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell 
HSBC it has to continue offering Mr M an account in circumstances which it has legitimately 
decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr M has said that he is finding it difficult to open an account 
elsewhere and he believes that HSBC has blacklisted him. However, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that any difficulties Mr M may be having obtaining an alternative account are due 
to any actions taken by HSBC. So while I sympathise with any difficulties Mr M may be 
having, I dont think that HSBC is responsible for this. Furthermore, our adjudicator has 
already directed Mr M to where he can find out more on whether a financial institution may 
have recorded information about him.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr M and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why HSBC was entitled to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman