DRN-3226717
Complaint
Mr S and Miss S have complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
applied to their current account. Theyve said HSBC failed to send text message alerts when 
they used the facility.
Background
Mr S and Miss S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything wrong or treated Mr S and Miss S unfairly. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr S and Miss S disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr S and Miss S
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Ive seen that Mr S and Miss S say HSBC was 
charging them at an extortionate rate this isnt something for me to get involved with.
Nonetheless Ive considered what Mr S and Miss S have said about failing to receive text 
messages between 2016 and 2020. The first thing for me to say is that the period Mr S and 
Miss S received a refund for  January 2020 to June 2020  was when it was mandatory for 
a bank to send text message alerts regarding overdraft usage to customers. Prior to this 
while some banks did send text messages where mobile phone numbers were available, it 
wasnt a mandatory requirement to send them. So this means that Mr S and Miss S arent 
automatically entitled to a refund of the charges for the period theyve referred to.
Notwithstanding this, HSBC appear to have been sending text messages to Mr S and Miss S 
up until 2016. However, it had a system error which resulted in these messages failing to be 
sent from this point onwards because the mobile phone number it had for Mr S and Miss S 
was an international one. I know that Mr S and Miss S say they would have found receiving 
these text alerts useful. But given they didnt query why they had stopped until some four 
years later, its difficult for me to say that this was important to them, or that they would have 
acted differently if theyd been sent. 
In any event, as it wasnt a mandatory requirement for HSBC to send these alerts until 
January 2020, I cant reasonably say that HSBC failed to do something it was supposed to 
here either. So Im not upholding this part of Mr S and Miss S complaint.
As Mr S and Miss S have complained about the addition of fees and while Im not looking at 
HSBCs charging structure per se, Ive nonetheless considered whether it applied the 
interest fees, and charges unfairly. Its worth noting that HSBC wont have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr S and Miss S if it applied the interest, fees and charges their account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware 
Mr S and Miss S were experiencing financial difficulty. 
Ive therefore considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr S and 
Miss S fairly and reasonably. But having looked through Mr S and Miss S statements 
throughout the period concerned, I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that       
Mr S and Miss S might have been struggling. Its fair to say that Mr S and Miss S did use 
their overdraft. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over       
Mr S and Miss S expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, 
non-contractual and discretionary transactions and transfers account going from the 
account. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr S and Miss S, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it 
did. And I dont think that HSBC charged Mr S and Miss S unfairly. As this is the case and 
bearing in mind what Ive already said about HSBC not sending text messages between 
2016 and the end of 2019, I dont think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and 
charges. It therefore follows that Im not upholding Mr S and Miss S complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S and Miss S. But I hope theyll 
understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S and Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman