DRN-4018004
The complaint
Company M has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc. It isnt happy that they 
provided inconsistent balances when they sold an account that was in arrears to a third 
party.
What happened
Company M complained to Nat West about the letters provided to M when the account was 
sold to a third party as the letters gave different amounts within the breakdown of the monies 
paid. M also complained about other issues that have been dealt with separately and will not 
be considered here. 
When M complained to Nat West about this they acknowledged they had made errors - they 
provided different balances because of a bank error. When Nat West realised the errors, 
they took action to repurchase the debt so their solicitors could continue handling matters. 
Nat West offered M £100 compensation in acknowledgement of their error alongside an 
apology. But M remained unhappy and complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for M. He accepted that Nat West had got things wrong 
here and communicated incorrect balances. But he thought Nat Wests attempts to put 
things right by apologising and offering £100 compensation was fair. 
As Company M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know M has other complaint issues that have been dealt with separately and this decision 
will solely focus on the errors Nat West made in communicating the balances around the 
time they were looking to sell Ms debt to a third party. And having done so I agree that Nat 
West got things wrong here, but I think the steps they took to put things right seem fair. Ill 
explain why.
Nat West made a commercial decision to transfer Ms debt to a third party, but they made 
errors in relation to the balances involved. Once Nat West realised this they looked to 
repurchase the debt and to continue to manage things themselves. And they went onto say 
sorry to M and to pay £100 compensation.
I agree that all of this must have been inconvenient to M, but Nat West acknowledged their 
error and apologised for it. And Nat West awarded £100 compensation which feels fair in the 
circumstances so I will not be asking Nat West to do anymore here. A lot of the difficulty M 
faced here surrounded the outstanding debt and I can see Nat West looked to gain up to 
date statement showing the payments received and an up to date outstanding balance within 
28 days of when M raised this. So I think the compensation level feels fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think National Westminster Bank Plc has 
responded fairly to Ms complaint when it awarded £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman