DRN-3272695
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Mr T is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as those 
of Mr T.
What happened
In 2015 Mr T received pensions advice from Portal. Mr T had approached Portal to discuss 
accessing tax-free cash (TFC) from his OPS for home improvements. Hed already spoken 
with his OPS trustees and had been told that the release of funds wasnt possible within his 
scheme until he reached 66 years of age. It was suggested he speak with an advisor if he 
wanted to look into other options.
Portal began to gather information about Mr T and his pension.
At that time, Mr T was 57 years old and was married with a dependent child. He told Portal 
he lived in property he owned worth approximately £190,000 with an outstanding mortgage 
of £20,000. He was employed and earned a minimum of £1,300 per month, often more. 
He was paying £252 a month towards his mortgage and said he had around £800 
disposable income each month. Mr T also had a death in service benefit through his 
employer. He had no other assets or liabilities. His desired retirement age was recorded as 
66. He was asked a number of attitude to risk questions (ATR) and it was suggested he had 
a balanced ATR.
Mr T had benefits in an OPS, which offered a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of £101,049 at 
the time of advice. This gave a guaranteed pension of £7,815 per annum plus an additional 
lump sum of £13,323 from the age of 66. It also provided a 38.59% spouses pension to 
Mr Ts wife in the event of his death.
In addition to this Mr T held another benefit policy with a different provider that he 
understood was due to pay a lump sum when he retired. The precise details of this benefit 
werent noted by Portal in the advice it provided to Mr T at that time.
On 20 March 2015 Portal wrote to Mr T and asked him to book a telephone appointment with 
one of its paraplanners so they could talk him through his pension options. In relation to the 
OPS, Portal had already completed a pension transfer value analysis (TVAS) of the fund. 
The letter included information from the TVAS, stating that the fund had a critical yield figure 
of 11.4%, which it explained was the amount the fund would need to grow by every year to 
match the benefits of Mr Ts existing scheme.
The letter then identified some basic options available to Mr T right now:
Option 1: Do nothing
Option 2: Pension release  transferring benefits, releasing TFC and leaving the rest 
invested.
Option 3: Take full benefits and retire with an income  take TFC and use the rest of 
the fund to produce an income which could include an annuity.
On 25 March 2015 Mr T had his paraplanner meeting with Portal where it gathered 
information about his circumstances and objectives. Portal then sent Mr T a post-sale 
options letter on 27 March 2015. This summarised some of the benefits of Mr Ts OPS and 
outlined his options moving forward. Within this Portal said its recommendation was that Mr 
T didnt transfer out of his OPS. Included with this letter was an option form and an insistent 
client form. The option form asked Mr T to choose between:
Option 1: Income Drawdown  Taking TFC of £25,262 and then reinvesting the 
residual amount until Mr T required an income. He would be treated as an insistent 
client.
Option 2: Do Nothing  Our recommendation.
The letter stated Mr T only needed to complete the insistent client form if he wanted to 
proceed with the transfer.
On 31 March 2015 Mr T returned both of the signed forms indicating he wished to transfer 
his pension and take the TFC.
On 8 April 2015, Mr T was sent a suitability report by Portal. This noted that Mr Ts primary 
aim was to make home improvements. The suitability report stated that Portal recommended 
Mr T leave his pension funds where they were. The report later noted that it is extremely 
unlikely that we will be able to match the required annual return. However, it said it was 
treating Mr T as an insistent client and, on this basis, it recommended he transfer his OPS 
benefits into a new PPP. This would enable him to take the maximum TFC.
Portal recommended a plan which it said invested in funds suitable for a balanced ATR. 
It also recommended Mr T take the additional option of a secured guaranteed minimum 
income (GMI) with the plan. This was projected to provide a yearly income of £3,550 if he 
deferred taking the income until the age of 66.
Mr T accepted the insistent client recommendation and a transfer was made in line with 
Portals recommendations. Mr T then took a cash lump sum of TFC.
In July 2020 Mr T complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that the transfer was not in his best interests and that hed lost out as a result. He said 
wanting to access tax-free cash from his pension was not an objective. Rather, he was 
seeking to ease financial pressure caused by the fact he had taken time off work following a 
cancer diagnosis. Mr T said he couldnt recall ever having discussed his ATR with Portal and 
suggested that his lack of previous investment experience and personal circumstances 
meant he didnt have a balanced ATR as Portal concluded.
Mr T also complained that the insistent client forms were pre-drafted by Portal and didnt 
make clear what an insistent client was. Mr T couldnt recall being advised not to transfer 
and didnt think the full details of his OPS were explained to him. He said he simply signed 
the forms he was sent following his conversations with Portal. He suggested Portal should 
have refused to proceed with the transfer.
Portal didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr T hadnt advised he had cancer, and instead 
told the paraplanner he was in good health. It said it had relied on the information provided 
by Mr T which it was entitled to do. Portal noted an ATR questionnaire was completed and, based on all the information Mr T provided, it believed balanced was the correct ATR 
assessment for him.
Portal stressed Mr T had signed multiple documents that detailed what an insistent client 
was and had chosen to proceed with the transfer. Portal said the suitability report repeatedly 
stated that it didnt recommend Mr T do so. It also said the regulations didnt prevent it from 
processing transfers on an insistent client basis if clients were made aware of the risks and 
consequences of such actions.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our Service. Mr Ts representative 
initially confirmed to our Service that on reflection, Mr Ts cancer hadnt been mentioned to 
Portal. But Mr T later told our Service that it had. Mr T said the diagnosis resulted in him 
having to take some time off work and that as a result he had a reduced income at the time 
of advice.
One of our Investigators looked into things and partially upheld the complaint. They were of 
the view the insistent client process wasnt properly followed but thought that, given Mr Ts 
circumstances, he would have transferred regardless in order to release the capital he 
required. In particular they said:
The tone of the paraplanner call assumed the transfer would go ahead and didnt 
make clear the seriousness of going against clear advice.
This call undermined the warnings later given in the documentation issued to Mr T.
This plan was Mr Ts only retirement provision and he was an inexperienced investor. 
In their view issuing a sales pack containing advice documents with instructions on 
where to sign was not sufficient in the circumstances.
That being said, they felt Mr T had clear plans to access TFC and even questioned 
when the funds would be available in the paraplanner call.
Mr T also confirmed he had later used the funds for home improvements.
However, the Investigator did have concerns with the recommended investment. 
In particular, they didnt agree with Portals assessment of Mr Ts ATR. They were of the 
view Mr Ts ATR was low and his funds ought to have been invested accordingly. They also 
didnt think the additional inclusion of the GMI option had been sufficiently explained to Mr T. 
They recommended Portal, in so far as is possible, put Mr T back into the position he would 
have been in had suitable advice been given. They felt Mr T ought to have been invested in 
the low risk fund from the same provider.
Mr T didnt make any further representations in response to the view.
Portal didnt agree with the view and raised a number of further points. These included:
The insistent client process had been fairly followed.
The insistent client form was clear on the benefits Mr T would be relinquishing and 
advised against the transfer. It was entitled to rely on Mr Ts understanding of the 
document given he signed it.
The relevant guidance regarding insistent clients was adhered to.
The investment plan it recommended was suitable for both medium and lower risk 
investors as only 50% of the fund was exposed to equities with the rest exposed to 
fixed interest. It maintained its assessment of Mr Ts ATR was reasonable but 
suggested that even if his ATR was lower, the recommendation remained suitable.
Mr T didnt disagree with its assessment of his ATR.
As the parties couldnt agree, this complaint was passed to me to decide.After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely that Id reach a slightly different outcome to 
the Investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Portal and Mr T so they both had 
the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. In brief, I agreed with our 
Investigators findings that the Portal didnt correctly follow the insistent client process but 
that it was most likely Mr T would have transferred in any event. I also agreed that the 
investment advice from Portal wasnt suitable, but I felt Mr T ought to have been invested in 
a low-cost flexible pension in line with a cautious ATR, not necessarily with the same 
provider as suggested by our Investigator. So the calculations I felt Portal needed to make to 
put things right were slightly different.  
Portal didnt provide any further evidence or comments in response to my provisional 
findings. 
Mr T disagreed that he would have continued with the transfer had suitable advice been 
given. He said that had he been warned of the risks at that time, he would have remained in 
his OPS. He raised a number of points including:
His home improvements were a want rather than a need  his home was fully 
functioning he just wanted to update certain rooms.
His home improvements were not a significant motivating factor.
Portal didnt challenge his objectives as it ought to have or present him with 
alternatives. Specifically, Portal didnt look at whether he could have voluntarily 
retired at age 55 and taken reduced benefits from his OPS.
He was not provided with all the necessary information to make a decision, so the 
Ombudsman cannot be sure he would have continued with the transfer. 
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that it wasnt financially viable for Mr T to transfer out of his occupational 
pension. So, my decision is going to concentrate on what I think are the key issues in this 
complaint. These are:
Whether it was correct for Portal to treat Mr T as an insistent client.
Whether the recommended product and associated investments were appropriate in 
the circumstances.
Before I begin, Id like to make clear that from the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded Mr T 
did tell Portal about his cancer. This isnt mentioned in any of the written correspondence 
from the time and it also isnt mentioned in Mr Ts call with the paraplanner which Ive 
listened to. Portal is also correct in saying Mr T suggested he was in good health during this 
call. Given the weight of evidence suggesting Portal wasnt aware and the fact Mr Ts 
account on this issue has varied, on balance I think its likely Portal wasnt given this 
information. Which means I havent taken this into account when looking at the actions and 
decisions Portal made at the time of advice. However, I have considered this when thinking 
about Mr Ts likely actions and his intentions.
Insistent clients
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr T had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
In my opinion it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr T had little knowledge or 
experience of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. 
I say this because he told it so in response to the ATR questions. And I think this shouldve 
put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent 
client route.
When considering whether it was correct for Portal to treat Mr T as an insistent client, the 
evidence that I consider key is that provided to Mr T prior to him signing the post-sale 
options letter. Whilst Portal has highlighted there was further information contained within the 
suitability report, by the time Mr T received this hed already received Portals advice and 
made the decision to transfer. And so, I dont think this can be fairly relied on when deciding 
if Portal gave clear, fair and misleading information at the point of advice as per the 
requirements of the regulator.
Whilst it is true that Mr T could have withdrawn from the process at anytime and that he 
signed the relevant forms, its reasonable for a retail investor, such as Mr T, to trust that they 
are being given fair advice which takes into account the relevant information. So, I dont think 
its fair to suggest Mr T should have reconsidered his decision in light of the further 
information Portal provided after it had already asked him to choose how to proceed; 
particularly when theres no suggestion his circumstances had changed in the interim.
Having carefully considered the paraplanner call and the options letters sent to Mr T, I dont 
think the information he was provided was clear or fair and I think it was misleading. In my 
opinion Portal didnt sufficiently stress the seriousness of going against its advice and failed 
to provide sufficient information to enable Mr T to make an informed choice.
I have a number of concerns about the way the paraplanner call was handled. 
The paraplanner did make clear that she was not providing advice. And I appreciate the 
paraplanner explained that part of her role was to provide Mr T with information about what 
could happen dependant on what option he chose to proceed with. That being said, 
throughout the call the paraplanner seems to have operated on the assumption the transfer 
would go ahead. And I think this is evident in how she phased the questions to Mr T and the 
comments she made in response. For example, when Mr T talked about the home 
improvements he wanted to make, the paraplanner commented that it would all be worth it in 
the long run, indicating the works (and the transfer) would go ahead. In addition, whilst the 
paraplanner made it clear that the advisor might recommend against the transfer, this 
comment was immediately followed by reassurances that Mr T could still proceed, with an 
explanation of how this could be done. This happened on more than one occasion in the call 
and at no point did the paraplanner stress the seriousness of going against advice.
So, I dont think the paraplanner gave Mr T the impression that going against the advice was 
particularly significant; if anything, I think Mr T would have been left with the impression the 
insistent client form was a formality.
I also think some of the questions the paraplanner asked Mr T were very leading. 
For example, when asking Mr T questions about alternative ways he might fund the home 
improvements the paraplanner didnt ask if Mr T had considered a loan or remortgage. 
Instead she asked whether she was right in thinking that taking out a loan for £25,000 with 
the interest and repayments at Mr Ts age was not an option he wanted to consider. 
Similarly, when asking about Mr Ts existing credit cards and loans the advisor confirmed he didnt have any and then commented that it was not like Mr T would want to gain those either 
because he would rather access his pension. This means that I dont think Mr Ts responses 
to these questions can be fairly considered a true exploration of his thoughts on additional 
borrowing. I also think this would have given Mr T the impression that withdrawing TFC from 
his pension was the better option.
Overall, I think the paraplanner call seriously undermined the later warnings Mr T received 
about transferring his pension.
Id also note that the initial letter set out the basic options for Mr T to consider with minimal 
advice or information. The opening question from the paraplanner, after checking Mr T had 
received the initial options letter, was to ask him what he was thinking of doing at that 
moment. Which seemingly invited Mr T to begin to choose how to proceed without having 
received sufficient information or any advice.
In addition, I dont think Mr T was provided with enough information across the call and the 
letters to make an informed decision. The post-sale options letter didnt clearly set out the 
information Id expect it to. Whilst it gave an overview of the benefits of the existing OPS, 
there was missing information. For example, it didnt highlight the spousal pension available 
to Mr T; it didnt look into Mr Ts reasons for wanting access to the funds; nor how else he 
might meet his needs; nor did it consider what his requirements in retirement would be and 
how this transfer and any draw down would impact this.
Some of the risks of transferring were included in the insistent client form Mr T was asked to 
complete, but I dont think these were fully explained. For example, the form didnt mention 
the funds could make a loss or that Mr T would be unable to transfer back into his scheme at 
a later date. And Mr T was only asked to complete this form if he decided to go ahead with 
the transfer in any event. So, Im also not persuaded the risks that were highlighted were 
sufficiently prominent or that Mr T was encouraged to review these as part of the 
recommendation he received from Portal.
I dont think the wording and emphasis of the paperwork Mr T was given with the 
recommendation letter  including that the first option given to Mr T was to ignore Portals 
recommendation  was fair to Mr T or in his best interest. I say that because I dont think it 
was in Mr Ts best interest to go against Portals recommendation. But the documents he 
was sent, made it very easy for him to do so. For all of these reasons, I dont think insistent 
client process Portal followed was fair.
Ive then considered what I think its likely Mr T would have done had he been given suitable 
advice. I appreciate Mr T has recently told me he wouldnt have transferred. I need to 
consider this against the other evidence I have, noting this comment has been made after 
Mr T has been told I intended not to uphold this aspect of his complaint.
Mr T has stressed that I, as the deciding Ombudsman, cannot be sure what would have 
happened. And I agree with him, it is impossible to know for certain what he would have 
done at that time had suitable advice been given. However, where evidence is incomplete or 
conflicting, my role is to decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely.
Mr T has said his home improvements were a want rather than a need. And Ive seen no 
evidence these works were urgently required. That being said, Mr T clearly wanted access to 
TFC to complete his home improvements and chose to do so despite documentation stating 
this was against Portals advice. Mr T has also told our Service that following a recent cancer 
diagnosis, he was keen to get things sorted for his family in case anything happened to him. 
The evidence indicates he approached Portal after hed spoken to his OPS trustees, and 
towards the end of the call with the paraplanner he was asking how long the release would take as he wanted to book in his builder who was quite busy. So, there was clearly strong 
motivation on his part to gain access to the TFC and this isnt something he couldve 
achieved within his current scheme. Whilst Mr T has now suggested his home improvement 
objectives were not a significant motivating factor, this assertion is at odds with the evidence 
from that time. The fact hed independently taken steps to secure the funds from his pension, 
to source a builder and to check their availability indicates significant motivation on his part.
However, I recognise motivation doesnt mean Mr T might not have been dissuaded from his 
chosen course of action by appropriate advice. So, Ive thought about whether a clear 
explanation of the benefits and risks, and discussions about alternative options, might have 
persuaded Mr T against this course of action. However, Im not persuaded that it would 
have. Whilst I accept that the home improvements were not urgent or necessary, Mr T s 
behaviour indicates he considered them as such, which is understandable in the context of 
his ill health. I do think the other options for obtaining these funds werent properly explored 
with him as they should have been. In fact, as outlined above, I think he was actively 
encouraged to discount taking out a loan by the paraplanner. That being said, in the context 
of Mr Ts ill health and desire to set things in order for his family, I think its unlikely he would 
have agreed to take on additional debt at that time or that he would necessarily have been 
able to. I say this noting Mr T was the sole earner in his household and hed had to take time 
off work following the diagnosis. So, his illness had left him with an uncertain financial future 
in the lead up to his retirement. Id also note Mr T told our Service he used the TFC left over 
following his home improvements to pay off bills and a car he had on finance, which shows 
he was keen to settle outstanding debt, not take on more. 
Whilst Mr T has recently questioned why Portal didnt look into the possibility of him taking 
earlier retirement from his OPS, it would seem his motivation at that time was to secure a 
lump sum to enable the home improvements  something I dont think a reduced annual 
pension wouldve facilitated. Id also note the evidence indicates hed already approached 
his OPS trustees about an early withdrawal and had been told this wasnt possible. So, Im 
not persuaded this was a viable alternative option.
Finally, I do also think its of relevance Mr T didnt dispute our Investigators view which 
suggested Mr T would have proceeded with the transfer regardless. If he felt strongly that he 
wouldnt have transferred, Id have expected this to have been raised with our Service 
sooner. So, to some extent I do think this undermines his recent testimony that he would 
have acted differently.
For all of these reasons, despite the failings in the advice process that Ive identified
above, the only way for Mr T to access the TFC was by transferring out of the scheme and it
seems more likely than not that his desire to access this was such that he would have
continued in any event.
The investments and plan
Having established that I think its more likely than not Mr T would have transferred from
his OPS regardless, Ive looked at the recommendation about where and how the funds
were to be invested.
After carefully considering the evidence, I dont think a personal pension on its own was an 
unsuitable product as it allowed Mr T to access his TFC and gave him the ability to invest the 
remainder until such time as it was needed. However, I do have a number of concerns about 
the particular recommendation made by Portal:
I dont think the plan, and in particular the GMI option, was sufficiently explained to 
Mr T - it was a very complicated product for an individual with limited investment 
experience or knowledge.Im not persuaded Mr T had a genuine desire for a guaranteed pension and the fees 
associated this plan were much higher than other PPPs that would have been 
available to Mr T at that time.
I disagree that Mr T had a balanced ATR, albeit I recognise the guarantees 
associated with the plan did have the effect of bringing down the overall risk posed 
by the investment portfolio, as long as the conditions were met.
In summary, I dont think this was a suitable investment strategy for Mr T - Ill explain why.
Dealing first with the costs, the PPP recommended by Portal cost 1.24% outright in addition 
to the fees charged by Portal, so I think there were cheaper products available to Mr T at 
that time. The additional GMI option was also recommended by Portal and incurred further 
fees of 1.2% which nearly doubled the cost of the plan. So the cost of plan was high. 
This alone doesnt necessarily make the product unsuitable if I was persuaded it was in line 
with Mr Ts ATR and that he had a genuine desire for a guarantee, but Im not.
The first mention of the GMI option was in the paraplanner call. Mr T was briefly asked about 
two different investment strategies. One he was told offered maximum flexibility, good 
growth potential over time and easily accessible funds. The other was the guaranteed 
minimum income plan which Mr T was told would mean he was protected from downturns in 
the market, but the costs of the guarantee would be a drag on his fund performance. 
Mr T was also told that if he transferred away, hed only get the fund value. Mr T was then 
asked if he thought hed prefer maximum flexibility and growth, or more guaranteed 
minimum benefits. Mr T said he thought hed prefer guarantees.
I dont think the explanation or information given within this call was sufficient for an 
inexperienced investor like Mr T to fully understand what was being offered nor what the 
implications of such a choice were. Whilst some of the key features of the option were 
highlighted, this was done using technical language and in a generalised way. 
Mr Ts response within the call was uncertain which adds weight to the fact he didnt fully 
understand what he was being asked to decide here. I think Mr Ts response ultimately 
indicates a cautious ATR but isnt sufficient to show he wanted a guaranteed pension option, 
particularly in light of the increased costs. Simply because Mr T said he would opt for 
guarantees over maximum flexibility and growth, doesnt mean he had a genuine objective to 
obtain a guaranteed pension option at that time. In saying this Id observe Mr T had 
guarantees associated with his OPS and was still willing to give these up.
I appreciate more information on this option was then included in the suitability report sent to 
Mr T. However, this was given at the point the product was being recommended. So, Portal 
never explored or explained what Mr Ts PPP without this could look like. Whilst a 
breakdown of the fee information was included in the report, Im not convinced an 
inexperienced investor like Mr T would have been able to utilise this information to make a 
fair comparison of the options available to him. I dont think Mr T would have known this plan 
carried higher fees than other products on the market and that this was largely a result of the 
guarantee offered. Reviewing the explanation within the suitability report, once again I would 
note it contained a lot of technical language and I dont think it would have been sufficiently 
clear to Mr T. This product also limited Mr Ts options in the future as he risked losing his 
GMI if he decided to draw on his pension before age 66  a real possibility given his health - 
and Im not persuaded this was sufficiently explained either.
As outlined above, this was a complicated product, so Id have expected Portal to take time 
to fully explain this to Mr T and ensure he understood. I dont think it did this. And overall, 
given the costs involved, I dont think the recommended PPP was suitable for him. I also 
dont think Portal provided clear or fair information on this option to enable Mr T to make an 
informed decision.Considering Mr Ts ATR, I have thought about what would have been a suitable investment 
strategy for him. As part of his complaint, Mr T has stated that he was a low risk investor, 
whereas the risk-profiling tool which Portal used classed him as having a balanced ATR, 
which is a higher risk profile. Portals suitability report said it had also reviewed Mr Ts 
capacity for loss. And that it considered he had a suitable capacity for the recommendation it 
had made.
Portals suitability report broadly defines balanced investors as typically having moderate 
levels of knowledge about financial matters and may have some experience of investment, 
including investing in products containing risky assets such as equities and bonds. They are 
willing to take risk with part of their available assets if the potential reward is high enough 
and usually make up their mind on financial matters relatively quickly.
However, Mr Ts answers to the Risk Profile Questionnaire he completed with Portal indicate 
a lower risk approach. The responses that showed caution and/or a lack of experience 
towards investment were:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  strongly agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters - agree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  agree
I have little experience investing in property - agree
Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares - agree
The answers which showed a potentially higher risk appetite were:
I feel comfortable about investing in property - agree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity - agree
I find investment matters easy to understand - agree
And the following questions Mr T was recorded as having no strong opinion on:
Id rather take my chances with higher risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving  no strong opinion
I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket  no strong opinion
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  no strong opinion
I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns  no strong 
opinion
I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns  no strong 
opinion
I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  no strong opinion
Having listened to the call its clear to me that Mr T didnt really know how to answer many of 
the questions he had no strong opinion on. For example, when he was asked if he was 
comfortable investing in the stock market, he hesitated before saying he didnt know really. 
From the positive answers given, its clear Mr T had limited investment and financial 
experience, and in this context its easy to understand why he might have found it difficult to 
answer many of these ATR questions.
I appreciate the risk profile questionnaire itself considered that his answers did amount to a 
balanced ATR. Yet if you look at the answers themselves, Mr Ts cautious responses 
outweigh the riskier ones. So, I dont think Mr Ts answers do show he was a balanced 
investor. I say this also noting that when asked about his different pension options Mr T 
chose guarantees over maximum flexibility which also indicates a more cautious ATR.
The FCA has also made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued 
in March 2011 about assessing suitability, about how firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling tools to establish their clients ATR. The FCA said that firms should have a robust 
process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions 
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated. For these reasons, I dont think 
simply relying on the questionnaire result was reasonable or in line with the FCAs guidance.
Looking at the other available evidence to help assess Mr Ts ATR, Mr T had nine years 
before he intended to retire, so he had some time to tolerate some market volatility and 
recoup any losses. And based on what Portal knew at that time, Mr T was in good health 
and had a reasonable amount of disposable income each month. That being said, Mr T had 
no savings or assets other than his home to fall back on. He also had a dependant spouse 
and child. So, I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that he couldnt really risk losing 
this pension.
Portal seems not to have undertaken any assessment of Mr Ts financial requirements in 
retirement. So, its also not clear how reliant Mr T was on this fund for his and his wifes 
income in retirement. Whilst he had another type of benefit due to pay a lump sum, its not 
clear how much this was for and Mr Ts only other provision was his state pension. So I think 
its fair to say Portal should have understood that this OPS was one of Mr Ts main assets 
and a significant proportion of his pension provision. Mr T did confirm his wife was also 
eligible for a state pension, but he wasnt clear with the paraplanner if this was a full state 
pension. He also said his wife had been out of work taking care of their child for many years 
which was a possible indication she may not have been entitled to a full state pension. So, 
this may have meant Mr T and his wife were more reliant on his pension provision. Which is 
something Portal should have explored and taken into account.
All of this means I dont think Portal assessed Mr Ts ATR correctly. Based on the evidence 
that is available, I think Mr T had a relatively low ATR. I say this keeping in mind Mr Ts 
limited experience, cautious approach in his discussions with the paraplanner and how 
Portal defined a balanced ATR at that time.
Im aware Portal is of the view this product would have been suitable for a low ATR 
regardless. The plan held a fixed exposure of 50% fixed interest investments and up to 50% 
exposure to equities. Equities are higher risk investments and a 50/50 split of riskier and 
lower risk investments is by its very nature a balanced investment portfolio, not a lower risk 
one. That being said, I do think the GMI could have mitigated the overall risk, providing Mr T 
didnt intend on transferring his funds elsewhere or accessing his pension early  as this 
removed the guarantee.
However, for the reasons outlined above, Im not persuaded Mr T had a genuine desire for a 
guarantee. Id also observe Portal didnt really seek to understand whether Mr T was 
intending to transfer his funds elsewhere in the future as it didnt sufficiently explore Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives in retirement. The GMI limited Mr Ts options for the future 
because the increases werent applied to the underlying fund value. So I think the return on 
the fund was likely to be lower than Mr T may have expected, particularly in view of the 
layers of fees applicable. I dont think Portal did enough to establish if this would be 
problematic for him. So, for all of these reasons I dont think Portals recommendation was 
suitable.
It seems to me that Mr T was an inexperienced investor who trusted in and relied on the 
investment advice he received. So had Portal given investment advice more in line with 
Mr Ts ATR and needs at that time, Im of the view that Mr T would have accepted this. 
Given what I know of Mr Ts intentions and circumstances, I think a low cost flexible pension that would have allowed Mr T to invest the rest of his funds in line with his cautious ATR 
should have been recommended.
In summary, my decision is that Portal didnt give Mr T suitable advice and it didnt provide 
clear fair and not misleading information to him. However, I think Mr Ts desire to access his 
TFC was sufficient to conclude that he would have followed the insistent client process 
regardless. I think Portals assessment of Mr Ts ATR was not accurate and it didnt gather 
and consider the information Id have expected it to before reaching this assessment or 
making its recommendation. I also dont think it fully explained the GMI option to Mr T in the 
way it should have to enable him to make an informed choice. For all of these reasons, I 
dont think the investment plan was suitable for Mr T. In my view, a low cost personal 
pension invested in a lower risk investment fund would have been in line with Mr Ts ATR 
and wouldve met his needs whilst incurring less fees. I think Portal failed in its duty to 
ensure its recommendations were appropriate and I think these failings ultimately led to 
Mr Ts loss.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr T would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Portal or Mr T dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr T receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption 
once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
PPP Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr T would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr T in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman