DRN-2539870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about advice they received from Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited 
(MAB) to take out a joint decreasing life cover policy.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs F were purchasing a new home and received mortgage advice from 
MAB. Alongside the mortgage advice, MAB also looked at what protection they may have 
needed for their new mortgage. A detailed fact-find was completed and Mr and Mrs F were 
asked about any existing policies they had. It was listed that they both had death-in-service 
benefits from their employers and an existing life assurance policy each. Neither of these 
policies covered the term or amount of the new mortgage.
MAB advised Mr and Mrs F to take out a new joint term assurance policy. This contained life 
cover with a sum assured of £602,000 which would decrease in line with their mortgage. It 
also covered them for critical illness for around £50,000 each. It cost £429 per month. MAB 
advised Mr and Mrs F to cancel their existing policies as this policy would replace it.
Around four years later Mr and Mrs F complained. They explained theyd spoken to their 
financial advisor who said they had too much life cover. They said they had more existing 
policies and these would cover the majority of the mortgage. They believe this new policy 
shouldnt have been sold but rather their existing policies amended. Mr and Mrs F also feel 
they shouldve been advised to place the life assurance in trust and that MAB didnt consider 
any inheritance tax liability.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that MAB had 
given advice based on the information Mr and Mrs F had provided  and they didnt give 
details of all the policies they had. He also felt that based on the details given, the term 
assurance policy was suitable to cover the new mortgage they were taking. He explained 
theyd been advised to cancel their other policies to ensure they didnt have too much cover 
but it was Mr and Mrs F who decided not to do this. The investigator said that MAB had 
advised Mr and Mrs F to place the policy into trust but this was something that they didnt 
want to do. He also explained there was no indication that MAB was advising on inheritance 
tax planning.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said their new financial advisor believes MAB shouldve done 
more to find out what existing policies they held. And that the advice shouldve been 
provided looking at the whole situation, including any inheritance tax planning. They 
provided evidence of the other policies they hold and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at everything from the point of sale to determine whether the advice MAB gave in 
2016 was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. Ive also considered the evidence Mr 
and Mrs F have given to show they had other policies in place when the advice was given. 
Having looked at all of this, I think the advisors recommendation was suitable based on the 
information Mr and Mrs F provided at the time. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs F met with MAB they were taking out a new mortgage for £602,000. They 
also had an existing mortgage on another property they were keeping in place  its recorded 
that this had around £260,000 outstanding. The documents from the point of sale show that 
MAB was advising on what protection they should have in place if they passed away to 
protect the mortgage. MAB identified they would need to have around £862,000 worth of 
cover in place to protect their borrowing but Mr and Mrs F said they only wanted advice to 
protect their new mortgage.
I can see that MAB asked Mr and Mrs F for details of existing policies. Its clear that Mr and 
Mrs F told MAB details of their death-in-service benefits. Whilst I can see this provided cover 
if either of them died, its not something that would make life cover for a mortgage 
unsuitable. This is because employment benefits can change over time, as well as Mr and 
Mrs Fs employment  they could move jobs or roles affecting what benefits theyd be 
entitled to. So, these couldnt be relied upon as a suitable way to cover the mortgage amount 
if theyd passed away.
Mr and Mrs F also provided details of life policies they had. Specifically they detailed that Mr 
F had a policy in place for around £117,000 and Mrs F had a policy for £270,000. Neither of 
these policies were enough to cover the new borrowing of £602,000. Its clear these were 
the only policies declared to MAB at the time of the advice. Mr and Mrs F also had other 
policies in place at the time. I can see Mr F also had a policy for £270,000 as well as a 
critical illness policy. Mrs F had another life policy with an initial sum assured of around 
£127,000. None of these policies covered the full term or amount of their new borrowing. 
And Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs F didnt disclose the other policies to MAB.
I understand Mr and Mrs F feel MAB shouldve done more to identify what existing policies 
they already had in place. But from what I can see MAB asked clear questions around their 
existing protection. I cant see that they shouldve done anything more, or had any reason to 
think there were other policies in place at the time. So, I think it was reasonable for the 
advisor to have based recommendations on the information that was given to him. And 
based on that information, I think the recommendation was suitable.
The fact-find shows that Mr and Mrs F wanted protection should one of them pass away, as 
they were taking out a new mortgage for a new property. The advice was to take out a joint 
decreasing term policy which covered the amount and the term of this new mortgage. It 
would pay out on first death  this means that if Mr F or Mrs F passed away during the term 
of the mortgage, the surviving spouse could pay off the mortgage. As they both earned 
similar salaries, I dont think this was an unsuitable way of setting up the policy. Mr and Mrs 
F argue they shouldnt have been given a joint policy as it could affect their inheritance tax 
liability. However, I cant see they wanted to discuss tax planning at this time. And I can see 
the advisor recommended the policy be set up in trust to ensure it went to the correct 
beneficiaries. The suitability letter confirms that it was Mr and Mrs F that decided they didnt 
want to do this. So, I dont think the advisor has done anything wrong here.
I can also see the advisor recommended that Mr and Mrs F cancel their existing policies they 
had listed. MAB explained in the suitability letter that this was recommended to ensure they 
didnt have more cover than they needed. Mr and Mrs F say they didnt cancel their existing 
cover  this was a decision they made outside of the advice given. But I dont think MAB 
provided unsuitable advice in saying this. Mr and Mrs F had made it clear they only wanted to cover their new mortgage. So, the advice to cancel the existing policies was suitable 
based on the new recommendation of a joint policy. This was because their existing policies 
didnt provide the right level of cover.
Its clear now that Mr and Mrs F had additional cover that they didnt tell MAB about. But 
even if this was disclosed, I can see that none of that cover provided the level or term 
needed to cover their new mortgage. And in any event, had Mr and Mrs F cancelled the 
cover they had been advised to, their other policies wouldve still covered their other 
mortgage. So, I dont think this wouldve meant they had too much cover available.
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr and Mrs F are over covered because they failed to disclose 
the policies they had at the time they received advice from MAB. And they failed to cancel 
the policies they were advised to when they took their new policy out. I dont think that MAB 
gave unsuitable advice based on the information it was given at the time. The advice was to 
put in place a life assurance policy which would cover the new mortgage should Mr F or Mrs 
F pass away during the term. Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs F were looking for tax 
planning advice at the time so I wouldnt have expected MAB to go into this. However, I can 
see the advisor spoke to Mr and Mrs F about placing the policy in trust but they decided not 
to do this.
The policy also provided critical illness cover to both Mr and Mrs F. I can see they both 
earned a similar amount and I dont think it was unsuitable to recommend cover if one of 
them couldnt work due to a specified critical illness. I can see that it was Mr and Mrs F who 
decided against a higher level of critical illness cover due to the cost. But I cant see that the 
overall recommendation was unsuitable based on the information MAB was given about Mr 
and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, or that this policy was unaffordable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman