DRN-4172149
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way  Lloyds Bank plc trading as MBNA Limited (MBNA) handled a 
Section 75 claim in relation to repairs on a car. He would like the cost of repairs incurred 
refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
MBNA has accepted there were customer service issues in dealing with Mr Ts 
complaint, for example it didnt respond to Mr Ts Section 75 claim within the 7 days 
apparently agreed. As a result, Mr T said he had no choice but to get his vehicle 
fixed. I understand MBNA  paid Mr T £100 compensation for its customer service 
failings which I think was reasonable.
I have considered that if MBNA had contacted Mr T within the 7-day timescale if this 
would have meant his Section 75 claim would have been upheld. For a successful 
claim there needs to be evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Mr T may have had a claim under a breach of contract if the car he bought was faulty 
and he could evidence this.
I appreciate Mr T had personal reasons for getting the car repaired as soon as 
possible . But I think it was unrealistic for Mr T to expect his claim to be resolved 
within 7 days. He might reasonably have expected to have to evidence  faults with 
the car to support his claim. Unfortunately, given the repairs  there was no 
opportunity for an independent inspection to support the car being faulty at the point 
of sale.
I have looked at further evidence Mr T has given us. This confirms the repair. 
However, the garage report provided  says it cant confirm if the rear differential issue 
was present at the time of sale. I think if MBNA had had that information it wouldnt 
have upheld Mr Ts Section 75 claim as it doesnt evidence  the problem was present 
at the point of sale.  So, I dont feel Mr T was disadvantaged by MBNA not 
responding to his claim in the timescale he expected it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman