DRN-3220843
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a payment she was tricked into making. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont go into it in detail 
here, other than to say that both sides accept Ms N made two payments totalling £840 to a 
person who promised they would repay several times that amount within four weeks as part 
of an investment scheme involving cryptocurrency. Only one of those payments  a payment 
of £420 was made from her Monzo account and is the subject of this complaint.
The recipient of the funds, a person that Ms Ns sister had introduced to her, was evasive 
when the time for repayment came and eventually stopped responding to Ms N altogether.
Ms N reported the matter to Monzo and the bank she made the other payment from. Both 
initially declined to provide a refund. Monzo said Ms N hadnt carried out enough checks on 
the recipient before going ahead so, under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code), it didnt have to provide a refund. It did, however, pay Ms N £40 
because of the poor service she received. 
Our investigator agreed with Monzo. They thought Ms N ought to have been suspicious 
about the investment opportunity and carried out more research, particularly considering the 
very high returns on offer. 
Ms N disagreed and felt that Monzo had an obligation to provide a refund to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms N but Im not going to ask Monzo to reimburse 
her loss.
I accept Ms N did fall victim to a scam but, contrary to her understanding, there is no 
automatic right to a refund for victims of fraud. In fact, the relevant regulations (and the terms 
of her account) make Ms N responsible for payments shes made herself in the first instance.
While Monzo do have a duty to monitor customers accounts for out of character and 
unusual transactions  the payment here was relatively modest in size and generally 
unremarkable. So, Monzo didnt make an error by letting it leave her account unchallenged. 
Im left, therefore, to consider Monzos obligations under the CRM Code. Its provisions mean 
customers should be refunded unless one of a limited number of exceptions apply. In this 
case I think one of those exceptions does apply  namely that Ms N made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing that it was for genuine services. Ill explain why 
below. 
Ive also decided that Monzo hasnt failed to meet its relevant obligations under the Code  
specifically to provide an Effective Warning where it identifies scam risks in a payment 
journey. For the reasons Ive already mentioned, there was no reason to identify the 
payment in dispute as carrying risk, so Monzo was not obligated to provide an Effective 
Warning. 
Did Ms N have a reasonable basis for belief?
In considering this question I have taken into account that the investment opportunity was 
introduced to Ms N by her sister  someone she presumably trusted. It also doesnt appear 
that Ms N has any real investment experience and I can see why, to an extent, she might 
have found the apparent testimonials of other peoples success with the scheme persuasive.
Yet by Ms Ns own account she was sceptical about the opportunity presented to her, saying 
I didnt believe this at first, she kept calling me non-stop. And, I dont think its unfair to say 
that this opportunity was unbelievable  apparently being able to turn her investment into 
over £3,000 in a matter of weeks  the equivalent of an annual return of thousands of 
percent. I think Ms N ought to have realised what was being offered was simply too good to 
be true.
If the promised returns didnt put Ms N off entirely she ought to have, at the very least, asked 
further questions  but, despite seemingly having her own concerns, she doesnt appear to 
have enquired how this scheme was supposed to work or how it could achieve such 
fantastic returns (seemingly without any risk). The scheme also appears to have been 
entirely arranged over a popular messaging service. There was no website, no paperwork 
and without even an address for the scheme operator, no way of holding them to account if 
things went wrong. All of which, I think, ought to have given Ms N serious concerns.
 
So, overall, I dont think Ms N had a reasonable basis for believing the scheme to be 
legitimate and it follows that Monzo havent made an error by declining to reimburse her. 
Finally, Im satisfied that Monzo took reasonable steps to try and recover Ms Ns money, as 
Ive seen evidence it contacted the bank which received the funds the same day Ms N 
reported the scam  but no funds remained.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman