DRN-3666916
The complaint
Mr E and Ms W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed telling them it wouldnt offer the 
mortgage loan they wanted. They had to apply elsewhere. Mr E says interest rates 
increased during the delay, meaning their mortgage will cost more. They ask for 
compensation of about £60,000.  
What happened
In February 2022 Mr E and Ms W applied to HSBC, via a broker, for a mortgage. Mr E 
already had a residential mortgage with another lender, and was in the process of obtaining 
permission to let the property.
At the end of March 2022 the broker sent evidence to HSBC that the other lender had given 
Mr E consent to let. HSBC said as Mr E would own two residential properties, it would only 
lend up to 80% of the propertys value. Mr E says HSBC should have told them this earlier. 
He says this delayed them applying elsewhere, and the Bank of England increased the base 
rate during the delay.
HSBC said the information provided to it was unclear whether Mr E was seeking consent to 
let or switching to a buy to let mortgage. It asked for clarification, which it didnt receive until 
late March 2022.
Our investigator said HSBC hadnt misled Mr E and Ms W. He said HSBC asked for 
clarification about Mr Es existing mortgage and, when this was provided, told them how its 
lending policy would apply. 
Mr E said the broker discussed the product in depth with HSBC before the application, and 
had been misled by HSBC. He didnt feel that all the points in his detailed complaint had 
been addressed.
Mr E provided an email from the broker which said, in summary, hed checked with HSBC 
that the mortgage should be included in the application as a buy to let and that this was 
within its lending policy. The broker didnt consider his words ambiguous, and said HSBC 
should have known Mr Es lender didnt offer buy to let mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. I can take into account any evidence that 
I consider relevant to reach a fair decision and Im required to explain how I reach my 
decision. Im not required to respond to each point made by Mr E. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
HSBCs lending policy is different for customers with an existing buy to let mortgage than for 
those with a residential mortgage and consent to let. Mr E had a residential mortgage with 
consent to let, and HSBC applied its policy accordingly. 
However, Mr E and Ms Ws complaint is that HSBC should have told them this earlier. That 
would have allowed them to apply to another lender and secure a better interest rate, before 
the Bank of England increased the base rate. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E and Ms W, but I 
dont think HSBC treated them unfairly.
Unfortunately, HSBC doesnt have a record of the call where the broker says he asked 
HSBC how its lending policy would apply regarding Mr Es existing mortgage. Based on the 
available evidence, I cant fairly find that HSBC misled the broker. Whether HSBC gave the 
broker correct information would depend not only on what HSBC said but also on what 
information was provided by the broker. I dont know, for instance, if the broker made it clear 
that Mr E was applying for consent to let rather than switching to buy to let, or if the broker 
told HSBC Mr E and Ms W needed to borrow more than 80% LTV.
The broker included Mr Es existing mortgage in the application as a buy to let mortgage. He 
sent an email with the application saying:
Further to your request for confirmation of declared rental income this is the 
applicant's current address...they are obtaining permission to let as is with no funding 
released. As such there are currently no returns or confirmations available as yet. If 
you require anything further please advise.
HSBC says the wording used (permission to let) was unclear, especially as the mortgage 
was described in the application as a buy to let. It says if it had known Mr E had applied for 
consent to let it would have told the broker it would only lend up to 80% LTV.
Mr E says HSBC knew hed asked for consent to let  he says the normal meaning of 
permission is the same as consent. While that might be the case, I need to consider the 
context in which the words were used, that is by a broker in a mortgage application. And the 
application submitted by the broker described the mortgage as a buy to let. The broker says 
HSBC told him this was how it should be entered. He also said he had to do this as entering 
it as a residential mortgage would mean the application failing affordability. HSBC says it 
should have been included as a residential mortgage. 
Even if the broker was given incorrect information by HSBC about how to enter the mortgage 
in the application (and as I said there isnt evidence to support this), I think HSBC made 
reasonable attempts to clarify matters. 
Mr E says HSBCs email of 3 March 2022 shows it was aware of what he intended to do. I 
dont agree. HSBCs email asks for information about whats happening with Mr Es property 
 it specifically asks if hes been given consent to let or is switching to a buy to let mortgage: 
Having reviewed the information so far supplied, [Mr E] are obtaining permission to 
let on their current property, please reply to this message to provide more details 
regarding this (e.g. they have been granted 'consent to let' on the mortgage, they are 
switching to a BTL mortgage, etc)."
HSBCs records show it sent this email on 1 March, and again on 3 March 2022. I think its 
clear from these emails that HSBC wasnt sure what was happening with the property, and 
wanted to know more. And HSBC had asked the broker about expenses should the BTL 
property be untenanted on 24 February 2022. Again, this suggests it wasnt clear about 
what was happening.HSBC received confirmation Mr E was seeking consent to let (rather than switching to buy to 
let) on 27 March 2022. It emailed the broker on 29 March 2022 to say this meant it would 
only lend up to 80% LTV, and to ask for further information. Theres no reason to think that 
HSBC wouldnt have told the broker this earlier if it had known that Mr E was seeking 
consent to let.
HSBC says its policy about customers with an existing residential mortgage with consent to 
let is available to intermediaries  in fact, its generally available on its website. The broker 
says he called HSBC so that he didnt have to go through HSBCs whole policy trying to find 
if there were any issues. I think its reasonable for HSBC to expect brokers to check its 
lending criteria before submitting applications, especially where theres something out of the 
ordinary as there was here.
Id expect HSBC to reject an application if it didnt meet its criteria  but only if and when it 
knows this. I dont think HSBC knew there was a problem with Mr E and Ms Ws application 
until the end of March 2022, despite previously asking for information.
HSBC said its email on 24 February 2022 was sent outside its timescales, and should have 
been sent on 17 February 2022. I dont think this affected the outcome. Theres no reason to 
think that sending the email a week earlier would have resulted in HSBC being told Mr E had 
applied for consent to let earlier. After all, it specifically asked this in early March 2022 
without a response.
A member of HSBCs staff told the broker that HSBC should have spotted the problem 
earlier. He lodged a complaint on behalf of Mr E and Ms W. It was for the complaints team to 
investigate what had happened and respond to the complaint. I dont think comments made 
by a staff member (who didnt have the benefit of listening to call recordings and reviewing 
documents and emails) make it fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr E and Ms W werent told earlier that HSBC wouldnt offer the mortgage they 
wanted, especially as rates increased before they were able to apply to another lender. But I 
dont think HSBC made an error that would make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
compensation to them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman