DRN-3425677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K dispute four transactions which were carried out on their account. They say 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) should refund the transactions and compensate them for the 
distress they have experienced as a result of Lloyds investigation into their complaint. 
Background
On 6 April 2021 Mrs K contacted Lloyds to report transactions on her account that she did 
not recognise. During this call it was established that there were four transactions which she 
says she and Mr K didnt authorise - they totalled £25.94. The transactions are well known to 
both parties, so I dont need to list them here.
Mr and Mrs K complained about Lloyds decision not to refund two of these transactions as 
the other two were refunded. Lloyds explained the merchant had confirmed the goods were 
delivered to Mr and Mrs Ks home address. Lloyds also explained the merchant confirmed 
the IP address matched Mr and Mrs Ks. As Mr and Mrs K did not agree with this, they 
referred their complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and recommended the remaining two transactions 
also be refunded. The adjudicator explained that Mr and Mrs K did not consent to the two 
disputed transactions, and the available evidence suggested the transactions were carried 
out by their son.  Mr and Mrs Ks son is also the representative for their complaint. 
The adjudicator explained that although Mrs K had given her son her card details for a 
transaction in 2020, this authority did not extend to the two transactions in question. 
Lloyds agreed with the adjudicators recommendations and said it would refund the 
transactions. However, Mr and Mrs Ks representative did not agree with the 
recommendations. He explained the transactions were made by a fraudster and the 
adjudicators finding that they were likely to have been made by him has caused serious 
emotional distress to himself and Mr and Mrs K. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman 
 to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr and Mrs K are 
liable for transactions they have authorised  either by carrying them out themselves or 
giving permission for another party to carry them out on her behalf. The PSRs 2017 also set 
out that where a payment isnt authorised by the account holder, they may still be liable for it 
if theyve failed with intent or gross negligence to adhere to the terms of their account or 
keep their personalised security credentials safe. 
More broadly the law recognises that, in circumstances where a third party has been given 
authority to act on the account holders behalf, any activity carried out by the third party can 
properly be considered authorised, even where the account holder has not given specific 
permission for each and every transaction to take place. Mr and Mrs K say the activity on the 
account was carried out without their knowledge or permission. The adjudicator, and 
eventually Lloyds agreed with this. It seems to me the crux of the complaint now is whether 
this conclusion is fair, based on the available evidence. 
In order for the adjudicator to find the transactions were not authorised by Mr and Mrs K, it 
was necessary to review the available evidence to ascertain how the transactions couldve 
been made with Mr and Mrs Ks details, but without their authorisation. Lloyds relied on 
details from the merchant which indicated the goods were ordered and delivered to Mr and 
Mrs Ks home address. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ks representative does not agree with this, 
and has explained the track and trace details from Royal Mail, along with the GPS co-
ordinates available support their claim the items were not delivered to Mr and Mrs Ks home 
address. 
In situations where I have conflicting evidence, I must decide on balance, what is most likely 
to have happened. In this particular case, whilst the track and trace details may not support 
the details from the merchant, I think greater weight must be given to the information 
provided by the merchant. I say this as this evidence is from the point at which the 
transactions were made, and I think the merchants comment that both the IP address and 
billing address match Mr and Mrs Ks details is significant, and outweighs any information we 
have about GPS co-ordinates and track and trace details. 
Alongside this evidence, I must also consider the evidence provided by Mrs K. I can see the 
adjudicator has spoken to Mrs K, and she confirmed her son lived with them and had been 
given the card details in September 2020 to make a transaction. This means he wouldve 
been given explicit authority at this time to use Mr and Mrs Ks account. The two disputed 
transactions were made using the card details, CVV details, along with address details. 
The key point I need to decide here is if I think Mr and Mrs K authorised the payments they 
dispute  not who I think is likely to have carried them out.  
As it stands, I dont have any information which shows how a fraudster would have 
appropriated Mr and Mrs Ks card details to carry this out. In other words, how the card 
details were compromised.  So, if it was an unknown fraudster, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs K 
didnt authorise the transactions. 
Mr and Mrs K have said they gave their card details to their son a few months before the 
transactions to carry out an unrelated payment. But even if it was Mr and Mrs Ks son who 
carried out the transactions  to be clear Im not making any finding that it was - Im satisfied 
they didnt intend for their card details to be used again in this way. 
That means any previously given apparent authority was most likely removed after the 
payment in September 2020 was made. 
As Ive alluded to earlier, I need to decide if I think Mr and Mrs K authorised the payments 
they dispute. Having considered what could have happened, Im persuaded they didnt.  I can see Mr and Mrs Ks representative has mentioned our review to be elder abuse. I 
appreciate the information presented may be upsetting for Mr and Mrs K. However, I think 
the necessary evidence and reasoning has been used to reach a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC should refund two remaining disputed transactions. It 
should also restore the account to the position it would have been in had the two 
transactions not occurred. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman