DRN-3341680
The complaint
P, a limited company, complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed their merchant 
account without good cause and without notifying them. 
What happened
P had a merchant account with Lloyds for some years that was used to take subscription 
payments online. In January 2019 Lloyds closed the account. 
P noticed in August 2019 that their online subscription service was no longer working. They 
investigated whether it was an issue with their software but contacted Lloyds on 18 October 
2019 when it was apparent the problem was with the Lloyds account. P were told the 
account was closed and so complained to Lloyds, as they said they hadnt received a 
closure notice or other correspondence. P were also told the old account couldnt be 
reopened, so they applied for a new account. 
Lloyds wrote to P on 24 October 2019 and said it had accepted Ps application for a new 
merchant account and sent a new merchant ID. P gave this merchant ID to their third party 
card handler but was told on 29 October 2019 that it wasnt working. 
P said they tried to contact Lloyds on 30 and 31 October 2019 to discuss the new merchant 
account but couldnt get through. When they spoke to Lloyds on 1 November 2019 they were 
told Lloyds underwriters hadnt approved their application. Lloyds wrote to P on the same 
day and explained that the application hadnt been successful as the risk was too high for it 
to offer merchant services to P.  
Lloyds sent a separate letter, also on 1 November 2019, in which it responded to Ps 
complaint. It said the complaint was about two of Ps merchant accounts being closed 
without P being advised. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said P was sent multiple 
collection letters in relation to one of the accounts, requesting an overdue payment. When 
this wasnt made, a final demand letter was sent on 30 January 2019 advising that the 
account had been closed. The other account had been closed in May 2013.
P wrote to Lloyds on 6 November 2019. P said the merchant account statements for January 
and February 2019 didnt mention any overdue or unpaid amounts and made no reference to 
the account closure. P asked for the collection letters mentioned by Lloyds to be sent to 
them. P said they thought the lack of charges in 2019 was due to a change in Lloyds policy 
because of Ps low usage, rather than because of the closure of the account. P also queried 
why they received letters from Lloyds regarding merchant services in April and July 2019 if 
the account was already closed. 
P said they had gone through the annual Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard 
(PCIDSS) compliance assessment in January 2019 and they wouldnt have done this for an 
account that was about to be closed. P told Lloyds that if it transpired they owed money to 
Lloyds this would be settled by return. P also said that when Ps clients tried to make 
payments that werent successful, they would have got a message that said unknown 
seller. And P thinks this would, and did deter, some clients from subscribing to their service.  
P then brought the complaint to this Service. They said while they were unaware that their 
account had been closed, they were paying a third party to process their payments, when 
there were no payments to process. P outlined the losses  including software charges and 
declined payments  incurred since the account was closed. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it.  
As P didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint came to me for a decision. 
I contacted both parties after reviewing the case and said I intended to uphold the complaint. 
I thought Lloyds had acted unfairly when it decided to close the merchant account for non-
payment of charges. I said this because I thought Lloyds hadnt actually told P about several 
debts that were overdue, and it should have done this. I thought that if P had been told, then 
the overdue amounts would have been paid and the account would not have been closed. 
In order to put things right, I looked at the financial losses suffered by P as a result of the 
incorrect account closure and said I intended to ask Lloyds to compensate P for the losses. 
These were: 
An amount of £25.82 paid monthly by P to facilitate the processing of payments, as 
this had been paid by P until October 2019, when P noticed the account had been 
closed. 
An amount of 750EUR to cover the cost of the software changes needed to 
accommodate a new merchant provider. 
An as yet undecided amount to cover lost sales, subject to further information being 
provided by P. 
Compensation of £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Lloyds said it didnt agree that it should pay 
the monthly cost of £25.82 incurred by P between February and October 2019, as the 
merchant account was closed on 30 January 2019 and there was no need for P to continue 
making this payment. Lloyds agreed to pay the £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.  
P responded and provided the following: 
Additional information about their subscription service and the declined payments 
that led to clients not signing up for the service. 
They asked for three invoices regarding software changes necessary after the 
account closure was discovered to be taken into consideration.  
They asked for an apology from Lloyds
They asked to be reimbursed for a payment of £29.99 made in December 2018 for a 
PCIDSS compliance check. 
I am now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint
I first of all want to clarify that although Lloyds complaint response letter addressed the 
closure of a merchant account in Ps name in 2013, P has said this complaint is not about the closure of that account  it is just about the more recent closure of their account in 2019. 
So this decision will deal only with the later account closure. 
Lloyds said it cancelled Ps merchant services account in 2019 because P owed £137.72 in 
outstanding charges. It said it relied on the account term entitling it to close the account 
immediately if you fail to pay any amounts that are due to us under the Agreement;
In order to assess if Lloyds acted fairly when it closed the account, Ive first of all looked at 
whether P owed this money and, from the information provided by Lloyds, it seems they did. 
Ive then looked at whether Lloyds told P they owed this money. P cant pay outstanding 
amounts if they arent aware of them and Lloyds needed to let them know of any amounts 
owed. The outstanding amount of £137.72 was made up of £40 of very recent charges, 
namely £25 for a rejected direct debit and a £15 collection fee in December 2018 and a total 
of £97.72 of historical debts. I cant see that P were ever told by Lloyds that they owed the 
£97.72 in historical debts. P cant be held responsible for failing to pay amounts due under 
the agreement if they arent informed that these amounts are due.
Just for clarity, Im referring to the £97.72 as historical debts as they were over a year old at 
the point in time the account was closed and Lloyds was not chasing the debt in any way.
Ill explain why Im saying that Lloyds didnt let P know about the historical debts. In October 
2017 Lloyds sent P a letter telling them they owed £117.65. P then rang Lloyds in the same 
month and paid this amount by card. They werent happy with the service provided by Lloyds 
and so complained. In their complaint letter dated 24 October 2017, P queried whether 
theyd actually paid enough to clear their account balance in its entirety. They said I spent a 
very frustrating 25 minutes trying to sort this matter out, and am still not convinced that we 
have paid you what is owed. Please be so kind as to confirm the following: Our account is 
now in good standing. 
In its response to that particular point, in its letter dated 18 December 2017, Lloyds said I 
can confirm that service charges and fee for September totalling £92.65 and for October 
totalling £25.00 totalling £117.65 were successfully taken via Debit Card on the 23rd 
October. Lloyds didnt properly answer the question about whether the account was in good 
standing, but I think any reasonable consumer reading that letter would assume all was well 
with the account. But all was not well with the account. In fact £50 was still outstanding. I 
think its fair to say at this stage P had no idea this money was owed. It was up to Lloyds to 
tell them it was owed, as P gave Lloyds the opportunity to do in October 2017.
Looking at the rest of the historical debts, a direct debit for an amount of £32.72 was 
returned unpaid in January 2018. And a £15 collections fee was applied. However, Lloyds 
didnt tell P this amount was owed. And, as with the £50 above, these two amounts are 
included in the £137.72 Lloyds said was overdue. As I said, Lloyds did not inform P that it 
owed the historical debt of £97.72 and it should have done this. So, it acted unfairly when it 
took the historical debt into consideration when it made the decision to close the account.
The remainder of the £137.72 was made up of a £25 direct debit that was returned unpaid in
December 2018 and the £15 collections fee that applied to it. If this had been the only 
outstanding debt owed by P in January 2019 then I think its highly unlikely Lloyds would 
have closed the account in January 2019 because of this amount. I say that because P had 
a good history of paying any direct debits that had been returned and Lloyds would most 
likely have given them the chance to do this, as it had done several times in the past.
And I think if Lloyds had informed P of the historical debt, then Im satisfied they would have 
paid that off given that P had historically cleared all debts they was notified of.So given that Im satisfied that Lloyds would not have closed the account if the £40 
outstanding for the recently returned direct debit and charge had been the only amount 
outstanding, and that it should not have taken the historical debt into consideration when 
making the decision to close the account as it hadnt told P about this debt, it follows that Im 
satisfied that Lloyds decision to close the account on the basis that P hadnt paid 
outstanding amounts was unfair.
The position P should have been in is that the account should not have been closed when it 
was. So Ive looked at whether P experienced any financial losses specifically because of 
the closure. Ive address these in turn. 
Monthly payment processing costs
P told this Service that they continued to pay monthly charges of £25.82 to a third-party 
business to facilitate the processing of card payments for a period of nine months after the 
Lloyds account was closed. When I contacted both parties, I said I was satisfied Lloyds 
should refund these to P as the costs were incurred by P even though they didnt need and 
didnt have the benefit of the payment processing service. I know that Lloyds has objected to 
this as it said there was no need for P to continue paying for this service once the account 
had been closed. Ive considered this but have decided these costs should be reimbursed to 
P. Ill explain why. 
P wasnt aware that the account had closed and this is why they continued to make the 
monthly payments. I can see that Lloyds sent an account closure letter in January 2019. This 
was not entirely correctly addressed, but I think it was clearly enough addressed that its 
likely it would have reached P. And it would usually be the case that once a business can 
show a letter has been sent, I would conclude that the consumer in question was likely to 
have received it. But, in dealing with this particular complaint, I have to balance this against 
the fact that P was sent other correspondence after this closure letter that suggested the 
account was still open. Namely, letters sent in April and July 2019 informing P of changes to 
the merchant agreement and how the service operates. And I can see the statement P was 
sent in February 2019, so after the account was closed because of unpaid charges, did not 
mention anything about amounts outstanding. So I think its fair to say that when P received 
each of these pieces of correspondence, they likely had no reason to think anything was 
amiss with the merchant account.  
I also think that if P knew about the account closure, then they wouldnt have simply done 
nothing  I think they would have contacted Lloyds and done whatever was necessary to get 
merchant services up and running again. So I require Lloyds to reimburse P for these costs. 
Lost subscriptions 
P provided this service with information about what they say were attempts made by clients 
to make subscription payments through their website, but these were declined. P said these 
particular consumers did not contact P to subscribe to the service in a different way, and so 
these declined payments equate to lost sales. 
P provided additional information after I shared my initial thoughts with both parties. Having 
considered this, Ive decided that P should be reimbursed a total of £2,610 in lost 
subscription charges  which is the amount of three missed subscriptions. Ill explain why. 
P told this service, as well as Lloyds in Ps 2019 complaint, that when the payments couldnt 
be made, their clients werent simply told the payment was declined. They were told either 
that the retailer was unknown or the seller was unknown. And P believes this is why these three potential subscribers did not contact P to arrange payment in another way. P said the 
majority of subscription payments are taken by bank transfer, and this accounts for there 
being only three declined payments over a nine-month period. 
P hasnt been able to provide any other information to show that the clients in question didnt 
subscribe in a different way. And I cant see that theres any way they could show this. So 
Ive looked at what I think is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Having done so, I agree that a message telling clients that a seller is unknown would likely 
deter them from making further attempts to pay. I understand how a client might be reluctant 
to part with, in one case, a considerable amount of money to subscribe to a service run by a 
seller that might potentially, not exist. So Im satisfied its more likely than not that none of 
the three clients contacted P after their subscription payment was declined. 
This means that I require Lloyds to reimburse P an amount of £2,610. 
Software updates
P provided information about software charges incurred as a result of them having to make 
amendments to their IT systems to accommodate a new merchant provider. Three invoices 
have been forwarded to this service. But two of these are in the name of a limited company 
closely connected to P, but not P. This means I cant take these into consideration when 
assessing losses experienced by P. It wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to reimburse for costs 
when invoices are clearly in the name of another limited company. 
The one invoice in Ps name was for an amount of 750EUR. I asked P to provide me with 
evidence of how much this cost them in sterling, as I intended to ask Lloyds to reimburse 
that amount. P told me that they had paid the bill in euros and so werent certain of the 
sterling amount. But they looked at the exchange rate, commission and charges and 
estimated the transaction would have cost £654. I think its fair to allow Lloyds the 
opportunity to check this amount, and it should pay that to P. 
Inconvenience 
I think that Lloyds caused P unnecessary inconvenience when P told it in October 2019 that 
they intended to apply for a new account with Lloyds and the Lloyds advisor didnt let them 
know that the accounts had been closed because money was owed. If the advisor had done 
this then it would have been clear why a further application wouldnt have been successful. P 
wasted time submitting the application. So I think its fair to award an amount of £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
PCIDSS reimbursement 
P asked for the cost of the PCIDSS security checks carried out in December 2018 to be 
reimbursed. But I dont think that Lloyds need to do that. This is because, regardless of what 
later happened with the account, this annual check needed to have been carried out when it 
was. So it was a cost P was going to incur irrespective of whether the account remained 
open or was later closed. 
Apology 
P asked whether Lloyds would apologise to them. I dont think this is an unreasonable 
request, but I dont intend to tell Lloyds to apologise. Things have certainly gone wrong here, 
but I have focused on dealing with the impact this has had on P  so the financial losses and 
inconvenience  which are the bigger issues. I will leave it to Lloyds to decide whether an 
apology is appropriate here. To summarise, I require Lloyds to pay the following amounts to P: 
Nine payments of £25.82, totalling £232.38
£2,610 in lost subscription charges
The sterling equivalent of 750EUR 
£100 compensation for inconvenience 
Lloyds should be allowed to deduct any amounts it is owed by P from the amounts Ive 
awarded. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay P the 
amounts outlined above, less any amounts owed by P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman