DRN-3981858
The complaint
Mr D complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna Bank) changed the repayment options 
on his Klarna Bank card in 2022, so that he could not use a credit card to make repayments.
 
What happened
Mr D applied and was accepted for a Klarna Bank card to use for his purchases. Under the 
terms of this card a customer can either pay off the whole debt within 30 days or can pay in 
three instalments. Mr D became accustomed to paying off his total debt within 30 days by 
using his credit card.
Most recently, Mr D tried to pay an outstanding amount using the Klarna Bank online app but 
found he couldnt do so, as the option to pay by credit card had been removed. The only 
option remaining was to pay by debit card. Mr D said he could not repay the debt in this way, 
and he was concerned that the debt would be reported to a debt management company 
which would affect his credit record. He complains he wasnt given any notice of this change 
and says the debt is causing him financial hardship.
Mr D asked for the repayments to be paused and said he could pay the debt in instalments 
over the next six to twelve months. Mr D complained to Klarna Bank.
Klarna Bank accepted it did not provide advance notice of the change, so it apologised to Mr 
D for that lack of notice. It explained that it had made the change to standardise payment 
practices across different countries - so now, only debit cards are accepted as payment. It 
added that the terms and conditions had not actually been changed but it accepted that Mr D 
and other consumers affected by its decision should have been given some notice of the 
change in practice. Klarna Bank said any failure to pay would not have had any impact on Mr 
Ds credit file, so it apologised to Mr D and agreed the following:
- To pause all his active orders for two months.
- The settlement pause would not be reported to the credit reference agencies.
- Pay Mr D £50.00 for his distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator also upheld Mr Ds complaint and said:
- Klarna Bank and Mr D should arrange a payment plan to clear the debt as quickly as 
possible without causing any further financial hardship to Mr D.
- The repayment plan should not be reported to the credit reference agencies due to 
Mr Ds good previous history of payments with Klarna Bank.
Klarna Bank agreed with our investigator as follows:
- It will pause all Mr Ds active orders for two months as Mr D requested.
- The settlement pause will not be reported to the credit reference agencies.
- At the end of the two month period, Mr D is to contact Klarna Bank to complete an 
income and expenditure form.
- Mr D can then have a further four months settlement pause, and Mr D is to make 
payments that he can afford during this time via the Klarna app. This gives him a total 
of six months to settle the debt.
- If he needs more time to pay, he can contact Klarna Bank to be reassessed.
Mr D did not accept Klarna Banks offer and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to decide here whether Klarna Bank did anything wrong because it has 
accepted that, on reflection, it should have given notice to Mr D, and to other consumers like 
him, that it was changing its practices and would no longer allow debts to be settled with a 
credit card.
Mr D says this was a change of the terms and conditions he had agreed to. I have looked 
carefully at the terms and conditions, but they do not refer to how payments can be made, 
only when they should be made. So, although the terms and conditions themselves have not 
been changed, I do agree with Klarna Bank that it was poor customer service not to have 
told Mr D earlier that he could no longer use his credit card to settle his debt.
 
So the key issue I have to decide is whether Klarna Bank has done enough to address the 
complaint. Over the journey of Mr Ds complaint, I noted Klarna Bank has done the following:
- It apologised and accepted Mr D should be given more time to settle his debt. 
- It set out a timetable over a total six month period for the debt to be settled. 
- After two months into the six month period, Mr D should submit an income and 
expenditure form for Klarna Bank to assess if Mr D needs more time to pay.
- It said the settlement pauses will not be reported to the credit reference agencies and 
- it has offered to pay Mr D £50 for his distress and inconvenience. 
I do appreciate that this problem has taken some time for Mr D to sort out and I am aware he 
asked for time to settle the debt and was concerned about the impact of these events on his 
credit file. The steps Klarna Bank has now proposed mean that Mr D is being given extra 
time to settle whats outstanding and that the actions associated with the help being provided 
to resolve this issue arent being reported to the credit reference agencies. That is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint. I understand that Mr D and Klarna Bank have 
been discussing how a payment plan will take effect and how Mr D can get more time to pay 
if he needs it.
 
Mr D is also aware of the methods Klarna Bank will now accept to repay whats outstanding 
here  so he can continue to work with it to find a mutually agreeable way forward here as it 
has suggested. 
Putting things right
All of the above means I am going to uphold this complaint and Klarna Bank needs to put 
things right for Mr D.
 My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Klarna Bank AB (publ) should do the 
following:
Pause all Mr Ds active orders for a period of two months from the date when Mr D 
confirms to us that he accepts this final decision. 
After the two month period has expired, Mr D should be given the opportunity to 
complete an income and expenditure form.
Offer a further four months settlement pause for Mr D to make payments which he 
can afford without causing him further financial hardship.
None of the settlement pauses mentioned above are to be reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
Pay Mr D the sum of £50 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman