DRN-2370669
The complaint
Mr H complains about six instalment loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS), which he said were unaffordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short term loans LS provided to Mr H between December 2018 
and April 2019. Loans 2 to 6 havent been repaid and have been sold to a third party (T). 
Mr Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 3/12/18 11/1/19 £200
2. 12/1/19 Unpaid £500
3. 20/1/19 Unpaid £300
4. 26/2/19 Unpaid £210
5. 18/3/19 Unpaid £200
6. 14/4/19 Unpaid £260
Mr H said that he felt that there were no due diligence checks done by LS. His earnings were 
not constant, and his outgoings were getting higher and higher due to the other loans hed 
taken out. He said that his credit file would have shown that he had lots of loans that he was 
struggling to repay. He was also suffering from addictions. 
In its final response letter, LS concluded that the money Mr H had available after his 
expenses were subtracted from his income was more than the amount needed to pay LS 
each month and would have left Mr H with some money to spend on other things. This 
meant that the loans were affordable.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Hs complaint about Loans 5 and 6 should be upheld. 
He said that by Loan 5, Mr H had three loans outstanding with LS. He thought that this ought 
to have alerted LS to the possibility that Mr H might have been having problems managing 
his money. In these circumstances, he thought LS ought to have realised it was unlikely     
Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan and any subsequent loans.
LS responded to say that considering the points that had been raised in the adjudicators 
assessment, it agreed to refund the interest and charges paid towards Loans 5 and 6 and 
pay 8% annual interest on the refunds (minus 20% mandatory tax withholding in line with 
HMRC regulations). Furthermore, it would remove all the entries for Loans 5 and 6 from
Mr Hs credit file. LS also said that there was an outstanding balance due from Mr H of 
£436.52. When it subtracted the compensation from this amount, there was a balance 
outstanding of £375.28. It offered to enter into an affordable repayment arrangement for this 
amount.
The adjudicator told Mr H about LSs offer. He said Loans 2 to 4 were also mis-sold.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to LS on 22 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
As LS had offered to settle Loans 5 and 6, I hadnt investigated these loans. But I said I 
would include the redress for these loans in my proposed compensation award.
I also said that it seemed that Mr H had accepted the adjudicators findings about Loan 1. 
So, I thought this meant that I no longer needed to make a decision about Loan 1. But Id 
kept this loan in mind when considering Loans 2 to 4.
I noted that when LS lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks LS needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr H would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Hs complaint.
LS had made a number of checks before it lent Loans 2 to 4 to Mr H. It had asked him for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr Hs declared income was between £2,000 
and £2,350 for Loans 2 to 4. Mr Hs declared expenditure was between £1,000 and £1,150. 
LS said that it had also checked Mr Hs credit file before agreeing to the loans. But Id not 
seen any information about LSs credit checks.
I couldnt see that wed received Mr Hs credit report.Id noted that Loans 2 to 4 were repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the amounts that 
Mr H needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But 
he was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. In addition,   
Mr H sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. So, Id considered the 
total amount that Mr H needed to repay to LS each month. 
I could see that Mr H had taken out Loan 2 the day after Loan 1 was repaid and the loan 
amount had more than doubled. Id thought that this might have caused LS some concerns. 
Loan 2 was for £500 with a highest monthly repayment amount of £167.63. But I could see 
that the repayments that Mr H needed to make on Loan 2 were relatively moderate 
compared to the income that hed declared to LS. And I didnt think the repayment amounts 
for Loan 2 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr H financial difficulty.
Overall, given Mr Hs repayment amounts for Loan 2 and his payment history with LS, I 
didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to have asked him for the amount of 
information that wouldve been needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And at that 
stage, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr H was saying.  
So, I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr H.
Eight days after taking out Loan 2, Mr H had taken out Loan 3 whilst Loan 2 was still 
outstanding. Mr H had asked LS for a loan amount of £500. But LS had given him the lower 
amount of £300. So, it appeared that LS had some concerns about Mr Hs financial situation 
when assessing the loan amount. By that time, I would have expected LS to be alert to the 
possibility that Mr H might be experiencing financial problems as Loan 3 was his third loan in 
less than seven weeks. The highest total monthly repayment amount for Loans 2 and 3 was 
£263.11. This was somewhat higher than his previous loans and a significant proportion of 
Mr Hs disposable income. Although I still thought it was reasonable for LS to base its 
affordability assessment on information that Mr H had provided, I thought it also should have 
asked him some very specific questions about any other short term loans that he was 
already committed to repaying. 
Id looked carefully at the information Mr H had provided us with to see what better checks 
would have shown LS at that time. Although wed not received Mr Hs credit report, we had 
received his bank statements. I could see on the bank statements that Mr H had one other 
short term loan from another lender which would have been repayable at the same time as 
Loans 2 and 3. Overall, I couldnt safely say that if LS had carried out proportionate checks 
before Loan 3, it wouldve seen that Mr H couldnt sustainably make the repayments to   
Loan 3. So, I said that I didnt intend to uphold his complaint about Loan 3.
As Id reviewed Mr Hs bank statements for the month before Loan 3, I appreciated that his 
finances were under pressure at the time. I could see from Mr Hs bank statements that he 
was spending a substantial amount of money on gambling. But that wasnt something he told 
LS when he asked for Loan 3. And I didnt think it was something that LS would have seen 
from proportionate checks.
I could see that Mr H had failed to make his contractual payments on Loans 2 and 3 in        
February 2019. For Loan 2 hed paid £53.52 instead of £167.63 and for Loan 3 hed paid 
£36.92 instead of £95.48. So, I thought that LS ought to have been aware that Mr H was 
having serious difficulties managing his money. And when Mr H applied for Loan 4 in late 
February 2019, I thought these difficulties suggested that there was a real risk that Mr H 
wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 4 and the potential difficulties or adverse 
consequences for him. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think LS should have given    
Loan 4 to Mr H. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or LS my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to say that LS shouldnt have given    
Mr H Loan 4, and that it needed to pay Mr H some compensation relating to this loan 
together with what it had already offered to pay to settle Loans 5 and 6. 
 
putting things right  what LS needs to do
I noted that LS had sold the outstanding debts on Loans 4 to 6 to T. I said it should buy 
these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If LS isnt able to buy the 
debts back, then it should liaise with T to achieve the results outlined below.
A)LS should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything LS has already refunded.
B)LS should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)LS needs to ensure that Mr H only repays the principal borrowed on Loans 4 to 6. In 
other words, he should not pay any interest or charges for these loans. So, LS should 
remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balances on Loans 4 to 6, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments towards the 
original capital borrowed on those loans. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments 
then LS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. LS should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and 
move to step E.
D)If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then LS should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. LS shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E)LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in
relation to Loans 4 to 6.
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mr H owes, it must do this after tax.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that that he had nothing else to add.
LS hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr H and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require LS to pay Mr H some compensation and take the steps as set out 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Mr H compensation 
and take the steps set out below. 
I note that LS had sold the outstanding debts on Loans 4 to 6 to T. It should buy these 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If LS isnt able to buy the debts 
back, then it should liaise with T to achieve the results outlined below.
A)  LS should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything LS has already refunded.
B)  LS should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)  LS needs to ensure that Mr H only repays the principal borrowed on Loans 4 to 6. In 
other words, he should not pay any interest or charges for these loans. So, LS should 
remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balances on Loans 4 to 6, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments towards 
the original capital borrowed on those loans. If this results in Mr H having made 
overpayments then LS should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. LS should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then LS should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with  
Mr H. LS shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already 
written-off.
E)  LS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in
       relation to Loans 4 to 6.
*HMRC requires LS to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks LS for a certificate 
showing how much tax LS has taken off, it should provide this. If LS intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mr H owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman