DRN-4440433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA dealt with a claim 
they made under their Home Assistance (HA) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R reported water leaking from their roof into their home from two places just 
before Christmas in 2022.
They were unhappy with how long it was taking to arrange for a contractor to attend. Inter 
arranged for a contractor to visit a few days after Christmas. Temporary repairs works 
including scaffolding was approved by Inter and the contractor attended to carry out repairs 
on 11 January 2023. 
On 9 January 2023 Mr R reported that the ceiling in the bathroom had collapsed from the 
weight of the water leak. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to Inter. They were unhappy with the quality of temporary repairs 
carried out as they said the roof continued to leak. They believed the delay had led to the 
collapse of the bathroom ceiling and wanted Inter to meet the costs of repairs. 
In August 2023 Inter upheld their complaint in part. It acknowledged there had been a small 
delay in arranging for the temporary repairs. But it didnt agree that the delay was what led to 
the additional damage. Inter said the majority of damage would have already been done due 
to a significant amount of water having already manifested itself by the time the leak was 
discovered. As the HA policy doesnt cover consequential damage caused by a leak, Inter 
didnt agree to pay any of these costs. 
For the delay in arranging a contractor, Inter paid Mr and Mrs R £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. They want Inter to 
meet the costs theyd paid for repairs to the roof and bathroom ceiling, They wanted Inter to 
also meet the costs to repair the damaged bathtub and compensate them for their lost time 
and inconvenience in having to stay at a relatives due to not having a working accessible 
bathroom. 
Our Investigator thought that the majority of the damage had already been caused and that 
on the balance of probabilities, the bathroom ceiling would have failed even if temporary 
repairs had been carried out sooner. But she found that Inter should have provided a more 
rapid response when Mr and Mrs R sought assistance. And that it was possible that the 
bathroom ceiling may not have failed until a later date. She took into account that Inters 
policy doesnt provide cover for permanent repairs - and that Mr and Mrs Rs roofing 
contractor had quoted for permanent necessary repairs. So she recommended Inter 
increase the compensation it paid for the distress and inconvenience caused from £250 to 
£500, so a further £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and want an ombudsman to decide. They said Inter has sent a 
payment to Mr and Mrs R to bring the total compensation it paid to £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Home Assistance policy provided by Inter says:
This cover is suitable for someone who wishes to cover an emergency caused by 
specified events when they do not already have relevant insurance cover.
It is not designed to replace your buildings and contents insurance and will not 
provide assistance for normal day to day home maintenance.
Under the section; What your policy covers Inter says;
We will only pay for the emergency repair.
We will not pay for any damage caused by the emergency.
Mr and Mrs R say that the initial leak in the bathroom ceiling was small. Because it wasnt 
addressed sooner, this led to the leak causing extended damage which they want Inter to 
cover. Theyve provided photos to support their view. They say the long term repairs 
wouldnt have been necessary had Inter attended sooner to stop the leak(s). 
Since the Investigators recommendation, Mr and Mrs R told us Inter had paid them 
compensation of £270. And that it has sent them a cheque for £230, so have paid a total of 
£500 compensation. As they do not agree this sum fairly reflects their losses and the 
distress and inconvenience caused, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Ive looked at the photos provided and the quotes for repair works. The quotes are to remove 
tiles and existing material to replace and refit flashing and other protective water barriers 
around the chimney stack and sky light. Some quotes include cleaning of the roof and 
gutters, and repairs to the internal bathroom ceiling. 
I can see that in March 2023 a roofing contractor appointed by Mr and Mrs R provided their 
comments on the temporary repairs carried out by the contractor in January 2023 and said 
that the temporary repairs were ineffective. They refer to what they believe is paint used over 
the leaks - and say they were not in the right area. 
The contractor who carried out temporary repairs in January 2023 reported to Inter that there 
was a large crack to the bathroom ceiling when they visited on 27 December 2022 and 
provided photos in support. This was four days after Mr and Mrs R first reported the damage. 
So I think its more likely than not that the majority of the damage which led to the bathroom 
ceiling collapsing had already been caused on 23 December 2022. 
Inters appointed contractor said they had applied bitumen to the areas they found a leak as 
a temporary repair. They advised that the roof was in a very poor state of repair. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R wish to claim for losses in time spent off work and the 
inconvenience of not being able to use their bathroom. But from the photos and information 
provided, I think that on balance the majority of the damage had already been caused by the 
time Mr and Mrs R contacted Inter on 23 December 2022. And so while I think Inter is 
responsible for some delay, I cannot safely conclude that the delay led to the associated 
damage that occurred. And as the policy doesnt provide cover for consequential damage, I 
dont agree that Inter should meet the full costs of repairs. 
Having to deal with any claim for damage to the home will cause inconvenience and some 
upheaval. Unfortunately this is inevitable. So its reasonable to have to expect to spend 
some of our own time dealing with matters. However, I think Inter should pay more compensation than it has - as the purpose of the 
policy is to provide prompt assistance and there was some delay. I can see Mr and Mrs R 
had to chase Inter for updates. 
So I think Inter should pay a further award to bring the total compensation amount to £500, 
which I understand it has already paid. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr and Mrs R a further compensation sum to 
bring the total amount to £500 for its delay in providing assistance. 
If it hasnt already done so, Inter should pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman