DRN-2227194
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited withdrew the promotional interest rate on her credit 
card after the balance exceeded its credit limit. 
What happened
Mrs M has a credit card with MBNA with a £15,000 credit limit. The credit card was subject 
to a promotional interest rate but in May 2017 the balance exceeded the £15,000 credit limit 
by £57.13. Because the credit limit was exceeded, MBNA withdrew the promotional interest 
rate and Mrs Ms payments went up. 
Earlier this year, Mrs M complained and MBNA responded on 7 May 2020. MBNA didnt 
uphold the complaint and said it had acted in line with the account terms when the 
promotional rate was withdrawn. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought MBNAs decision to remove the promotional rate was reasonable and in line with the 
account terms. Mrs M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs Ms payments increased after the promotional interest rate was 
withdrawn and that, as a result, she found it harder to maintain them. But I can only uphold a 
complaint where I find that a business has made an error or treated its customer unfairly. Im 
going to focus on whether MBNA acted in line with its agreement with Mrs M and whether its 
decision with withdraw the promotional interest rate was fair. 
Our investigator has already quoted the relevant section of MBNAs terms and conditions in 
their findings so I wont repeat them in full again here. In summary, MBNAs terms say 
customers must not go over the credit limit and that, if they do, a default charge will be 
applied and any promotional interest rate withdrawn. Whilst I understand Mrs M feels 
MBNAs actions were unfair, Im satisfied it acted in line with the terms and conditions she 
accepted when the credit card was opened. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I havent found that MBNA has made a mistake or 
treated her unfairly by withdrawing the promotional interest rate on her credit card. Theres 
nothing in the credit agreement or associated terms that says MBNA will only take the above 
steps if the balance is exceeded by a certain amount. The information says that if the credit 
limit is exceeded, MBNA can withdraw the promotional interest rate. I think its reasonable 
for MBNA to act in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card. 
As Im satisfied MBNA has dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman