DRN-2385367
The complaint
Mr H and Miss Q are unhappy with the mortgage arranged by Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited (MAB) as they say it wasnt the two-year deal they believed theyd applied for. 
  
What happened
Mr H and Miss Q were buying their first property. MAB recommended a two-year fixed rate 
mortgage in March 2018 which included cashback on completion. Mr H and Miss Q 
accepted the recommendation and the application was submitted. 
The mortgage was offered on 7 March 2018. Mr H and Miss Qs solicitors requested an 
extension of the offer in August 2018 as completion had been delayed. And a further offer 
was issued. The sale completed in October 2018. 
Towards the end of 2019, Mr H and Miss Q discovered the fixed rate would be ending 
sooner than expected. They complained as they believed that the two years would start 
following completion of the sale, meaning that it would end around October 2020. Theyre 
unhappy as they paid a product fee of £999 and say that theyve only had three-quarters of 
the deal. Theyd like a proportion of the product fee refunded as compensation. 
MAB said Mr H and Miss Q wouldve been told the product end date was 30 April 2020 
during discussions, as well as in the offer letters. But it offered to arrange the remortgage for 
them and waive the usual fee as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. While she empathised with Mr H and Miss Q, she 
felt the end date was displayed prominently in several places on the documentation. So she 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr H and Miss Q disagreed. They said theyd been reliant on the advisers and had no 
reason to think that their two-year mortgage deal would start before the sale had completed. 
They believe MAB shouldve given them the option to look at offers for other two-year deals, 
given that there were only around 18 months left of the fixed rate deal by the time of 
completion. 
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr H and Miss Q, I dont uphold this 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Ive been provided with a Your Mortgage Requirements document which was prepared on 
1 March 2018. In this it details Mr H and Miss Qs objectives and the advice they were given 
as a result. Included in the objectives were: The ability to fix your mortgage payments 
because you wanted known monthly mortgage costs, To have an Initial Rate on your 
mortgage deal of no longer than 2 years and To incur no Early Repayment Charge 
because you wanted to be able to move mortgage lender at the end of your initial deal 
period without penalty.
The mortgage adviser recommended a mortgage which seemed to have met the specified 
objectives. It was said to be fixed at a rate of 1.73% until 30 April 2020, and this was clearly 
displayed in a table on the report. Underneath this it says You are aware that the initial rate 
available on the mortgage I am recommending has a fixed expiry date, as given in the table 
above. This means the initial period when you will benefit from this rate may be less than 2 
years and 2 months, either at the time your mortgage offer is issued and/or at your moving in 
date. The report also advises Mr H and Miss Q to read their mortgage offer, once received, 
carefully and thoroughly to understand all the details of the recommended mortgage. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage illustration. This clearly states, in two places, that the 
mortgage has an initial fixed rate until 30 April 2020. Its then suggested again later on in the 
illustration under the payment schedule, which shows that the rate would switch to a variable 
rate from May 2020. 
The mortgage offer was sent by the lender to Mr H and Miss Q. This also clearly states the 
fixed rate would apply until 30 April 2020, and that the loan would revert to the standard 
variable rate on 1 May 2020. 
Mr H and Miss Q questioned whether theyd been provided with some of the documentation, 
such as the Your Mortgage Requirements document. They dont recall seeing it and said 
that if a signed copy isnt available, it would suggest they hadnt been given the correct 
information. 
I cant see why MAB wouldnt have provided Mr H and Miss Q with the documentation 
outlining the recommendation and the reasons behind it. And it doesnt look, from what Ive 
seen, as though the customer wouldve been asked to sign the Your Mortgage 
Requirements document or the mortgage illustration  this wasnt a requirement. On 
balance, it seems likely that Mr H and Miss Q wouldve been sent the document stating that 
they may not benefit from the full two years and two months by the time of the offer and/or 
the moving in date. 
But, even if they hadnt seen this, Im satisfied that during the course of taking out this 
mortgage, they wouldve had sufficient chance to see the end date of the product. At the 
very least Id expect them to have seen the mortgage offer from the lender  Id be surprised 
if theyd agreed to take the mortgage without having done so, given that its such a large 
financial commitment. And I conclude that they were provided with enough information to 
give them cause to query the matter with MAB before agreeing to the offer. I say this 
because, while Mr H and Miss Q disagree, I do think the end date of the fixed rate was 
clearly stated on the mortgage offer. 
So, overall, I dont think it would be fair to say that MAB made an error here. It provided 
advice at the point in time it was asked to, and the offer was produced by the lender. And the 
end date of the product was clearly presented on the documentation Ive seen, including on 
documentation that Mr H and Miss Q were almost certainly sent. MAB recognised that Mr H 
and Miss Q were unhappy so offered to waive the remortgage fee of £295 in recognition of 
this. While not required and seemingly not taken up by Mr H and Miss Q, I think this was a 
fair offer in the circumstances   I wont be asking MAB to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman