DRN-2978114
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the advice she was given in 1992, by a business since acquired by 
ReAssure Limited, to transfer out of her occupational pension scheme (OPS). Shes also 
unhappy that ReAssure have failed to retain the documentation from that time and believes 
the review of her pension wasnt carried out correctly. 
The advice complained about was provided by a company Ill call GLP, which was then 
acquired by a company Ill call WL. This company was acquired by ReAssure Ltd. 
Ms M has been represented by a claims management company (the CMC) throughout her 
dealings with ReAssure and this service. All communications with this office have been via 
the CMC. 
What happened
Ms M was advised in 1992 by GLP to transfer the benefits from her employers pension 
scheme into a private pension. She acted on this advice and transferred her pension shortly 
afterwards. 
In August 2000, Ms M was approached by WL, as part of the Regulators (at that time the 
Securities and Investment Board) industry wide review of advice provided to customers by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 (the Pension Review). Following 
their review, they concluded Ms M had received unsuitable advice to transfer and was due 
redress  their offer of £2,481 was accepted by Ms M on 31 August 2000, with the funds 
paid into an augment plan.
Ms M, through her CMC, complained to ReAssure in July 2020. She said she was only 25 
years of age at the time and had little knowledge of pensions or investments then. She 
believed what GLP told her at the time was in her best interests. She said she had only 
recently become aware she had cause for complaint about the advice shed been given in 
1992  she wasnt aware the advice didnt meet the required standards and rules applicable 
at the time. Ms M believed her funds had been invested in a single, complex and high-cost 
fund, and her fund had decreased in value due to the high costs of managing the fund. Ms M 
now believes the advisor failed to act with reasonable skill and care, and failed to disclose 
material information regarding risks, costs and alternatives, depriving Ms M of the ability to 
make an informed choice about whether to accept the advice. Ms M feels she isnt bound by 
the usual time limits for bringing her complaint because she had no knowledge that 
applicable rules at the time had been breached. 
ReAssure responded, advising that due to the passage of time they retained no copies of 
any correspondence issued during the review. It appears that Ms Ms documents were 
destroyed in a fire. They were however able to access some historic info from their database 
and having considered this they explained they were rejecting Ms Ms complaint. This was 
because the circumstances surrounding Ms Ms pension transfer had already been 
considered as part of the Industry wide pension review in August 2000. This found that Ms M 
had received unsuitable advice to transfer out of her employer pension scheme. And Ms M 
had accepted an offer of redress of £2,481 to be paid into an augment plan at that time. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms M referred her complaint to this service. Her CMC said that, 
due to ReAssures inability to show the review had been carried out in line with the 
regulatory requirements at the time  essentially there were no documents to prove theyd 
followed the guidance - ReAssure must now revisit the complaint and use the FCAs updated 
FG17/9 guidance in order to recalculate the appropriate redress.
ReAssure advised they didnt consent to our service reviewing the merits of the complaint as 
Ms Ms policy was considered as part of the pension review, which was completed in line 
with the regulators guidance at the time. The process was designed to be a definitive 
process for all businesses to identify whether customers had suffered a financial loss due to 
advice theyd received. It wasnt designed to be an ongoing process, but rather a one-off 
exercise. And in Ms Ms case, redress was offered and accepted in full and final settlement 
in 2000. ReAssure believed Ms M would or should have been aware she had cause for 
complaint in 2000 - as this is when she became aware shed suffered a loss. Accordingly, 
the complaint was brought to us too late for us to consider.  
Our investigator issued her view in August 2021. She concluded our service can consider 
the complaint. She didnt think it had been brought to us too late  saying our service 
generally takes the view consumers are unlikely to be have been aware of any cause for 
complaint until they retired or started to take benefits from their pension. And looking at the 
very limited information wed been provided by ReAssure, there was no evidence within that 
to show why WL reached their review conclusion. Accordingly, there was no reason for Ms 
M not to have trusted the outcome of the review that was undertaken at the time.
Addressing the merits of the complaint  the initial advice and the subsequent review carried 
out - our investigator acknowledged WL had already concluded Ms M had been misadvised 
at the time. So that point didnt need considering again. The only remaining point to consider 
was whether Reassure were required to undertake the review again. Our investigator 
concluded they werent. 
She acknowledged the assumptions regarding likely investment performance, which formed 
the basis of the review calculations, havent proved to be accurate, and that Ms Ms pension 
value is much less than what it would have been had she not transferred. But, ReAssure had 
already reviewed Ms Ms pension and offered redress, so they werent required to go back 
and reconsider this again. 
ReAssure responded, confirming they had nothing further to add. Ms M rejected the 
investigators view, her CMC explaining that ReAssure had failed to demonstrate theyd 
carried out the review correctly. Theyd failed to keep the records relating to the review, 
which they were required to do. She asked for an Ombudsman to review the case, and its 
now been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by briefly commenting on the issue whether our service is able to consider this 
complaint. ReAssure havent expressed any disagreement with our investigators 
conclusions in this regard, and so I take it they accept her rationale. Accordingly, Ill now 
focus on the merits of Ms Ms complaint. ReAssure (or more precisely, WL) accepted Ms M had received inappropriate advice at the 
time, leading to redress being paid to Ms M following the review process. So, I dont need to 
consider whether Ms M received inappropriate advice, as ReAssure (or, WL at the time) 
have already agreed that she did. That issue has been settled. 
That leaves me with the issue of the pension review to consider here  was it carried out 
correctly and in line with the Regulators rules and guidance. The CMC has essentially 
argued that, because ReAssure have failed to retain virtually all of the documentation 
generated as part of Ms Ms review  which ReAssure should have done  they cant prove 
the review process was undertaken properly, or was compliant with the Regulators rules at 
the time. I agree ReAssure (or the businesses theyd acquired) should have kept the 
records. And I agree the absence of these records means Ms M is unable to see what 
questions she was asked, what answers she gave at the time of the review, and together 
with the assumptions used see how that information fed into the review carried out by WL. 
So, I agree there is no proof Ms Ms review was carried out correctly. 
The CMC says ReAssure should re-calculate the redress using the FCAs FG17/9 guidance, 
because they cant show the review was carried out correctly. This guidance was originally 
aimed at complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or received 
before this date that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already. It was initially 
intended any case that fell within the pension review period would be excluded from this 
updated guidance. However, it was subsequently decided some cases could be included - 
where reviews by businesses hadnt been carried out in accordance with regulatory 
standards at the time of the review - and/or where the particular circumstances of a case 
were not addressed by those standards.
The onus under this guidance is on the complainant to show theres been a mistake  
although as Ive acknowledged above, I appreciate the lack of documentation makes it 
difficult for Ms M or the CMC to show that. So, in the absence of the vast majority of the 
evidence from the time, I need to consider whether its likely a mistake was made. And, on 
balance, I think its unlikely it was. 
The purpose of the pension review was to draw a line under the issue of past pension mis-
selling. It was intended to provide finality for both parties. Customers would know the advice 
theyd received would be reviewed, and compensation paid where necessary. And 
businesses would know that having investigated and paid compensation, theyd have no 
liability in the future. Because of this, the pension review was a very tightly regulated 
process. It required participating pension providers to undertake very clearly defined tasks. A 
sample of calculations would have been checked, both by the businesses and the regulator, 
with any systemic problems identified and corrected. There were regular oversight audits by 
the regulator to ensure the reviews were being undertaken correctly. 
Ive looked at the limited documents ReAssure have been able to provide, and in particular 
WLs letter to Ms M dated 24 August 2000 outlining the results of her review. That letter says 
as follows:
We are pleased to tell you that we have now completed our review, and our 
conclusion is that redress is due to you.
The detailed calculations showing how we arrived at the above figures are available 
on request. In performing the calculations we have made reference to guidelines laid 
down by the Financial Services Authority which allows us to use certain assumptions. 
Details of theseare shown on Appendix 2 attached [regrettably, not now available 
here].The information used in the calculations was current at 1 August 2000The letter also advised that WL had made enquiries to see if Ms Ms former employer 
scheme could be reinstated, but this wasnt possible. 
I think the above letter is persuasive. It suggests WL made some meaningful enquiries at the 
time. In particular it records that an attempt was made to see if Ms Ms former employer 
scheme would reinstate her  which are enquiries WL were expected to undertake. Whilst 
Ive seen no evidence that this enquiry/approach actually happened, Im satisfied it was most 
likely made. The wording in the letter is clear, and Ive no reason to doubt what it says. It 
also says that the assumptions WL used in its calculation had been explained to Ms M in an 
appendix. So, its reasonable to assume that Ms M wouldve queried things with WL at the 
time if any of the assumptions used were incorrect.
So, even without the remaining documents, and conscious of what Ive said above, Im 
persuaded Ms Ms review was highly likely to have been carried out correctly and in line with 
the appropriate guidance at the time. Accordingly, I wont be upholding Ms Ms complaint, 
and wont be asking ReAssure to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman