DRN-3462822
The complaint
Mr E complains that Metro Bank PLC have loaded a negative fraud marker against his 
name, and hed like this removed.
What happened
On 18 March 2018 Mr E opened an account with Metro. 
On 1 April 2018 three transfers credited Mr Es account, totalling £437. Two withdrawals 
were then completed on 1 April 2018, for £300, then for £130 in the early hours of the 
morning on 2 April 2018. 
Metro later received a report of fraud for the three transfers from a third party bank. Metro 
decided to load a negative marker against Mr E and close his account with immediate effect. 
Mr E wasnt happy with Metros decision, so contacted our service. 
Mr E explained that he lost his wallet  including his debit card  and tried to report it to a 
local Metro branch. But they didnt action this.
He advised our investigator that his PIN was written on a folded-up piece of paper stored in 
a zipped up pocket in his wallet  and wasnt easily accessible. And he doesnt have any 
knowledge of the fraudulent credits or the withdrawals which took place immediately after.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint  but didnt uphold it. In summary he thought 
that Metro had sufficient evidence to load a negative marker against Mr E on the fraud 
markers database. 
Mr E didnt agree. In response he said:
Hes now realised he didnt make the cash withdrawal on 28 March 2018
He was young when it happened and thats why he got the dates wrong
He doesnt know anything about the money credited into his account
He reported his card lost to the bank
As Mr E didnt agree to our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator outlined the criteria Metro need to meet to fairly load a fraud marker. So, I 
wont repeat this. In summary, Metro need to evidence that fraudulent funds entered Mr Es 
account, and Mr E was deliberately dishonest in receiving them. I understand that this will 
disappoint Mr E, but Im satisfied Metro have met this test. And therefore, acted fairly in 
loading the marker. I say this because:
Ive seen a report from a third-party bank informing Metro that the credits on 
1 April 2018 were fraudulent. 
Mr Es explained that he lost his wallet  including his debit card  and he reported it 
at a local Metro branch. However, hes been inconsistent in explaining when he 
reported his card lost  initially advising our service he did so after Metro sent a letter 
informing him about suspicious activity. 
Theres no evidence that Mr E reported his card lost at Metro branch prior to the 
fraud
Mr Es explained that as well as his card his PIN was written down in his wallet. Its 
possible that a fraudster obtained Mr Es card and PIN from his wallet  however I 
think its very unlikely a fraudster, on obtaining Mr Es card, would look to transfer 
funds from a separate account into Mr Es account before withdrawing them. I say 
this because a fraudster wouldnt have known if and when Mr E might cancel his card 
 thereby preventing them accessing any funds.
Mr E initially informed our investigator that he carried out a £15 cash withdrawal on 
29 March 2018. Mr E later informed our investigator that he didnt in fact carry this 
out. This withdrawal took place from the same ATM machine as the two withdrawals 
Mr E says he didnt carry using the fraudulent funds. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Metro to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman