DRN-2634384
The complaint
Mr A is the trustee of a trust, which Ill refer to as T. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
declined Ts application to open a trust account with them and havent explained the reasons 
why the application has been declined.
Mr A also complains about the customer service hes experienced as part of this process.
What happened
Mr A contacted a branch of HSBC in June 2020 to enquire about opening a trust account 
with them. The staff at the branch referred him to their business specialist team as it was not 
something they could help with.
HSBC provided an application form for a trust account to Mr A which he completed and 
returned to them. It was received by HSBC on 21 July 2020. HSBC declined the application 
in early August 2020 explaining to Mr A that a trust account is something they only offer in 
exceptional circumstances and this request didnt meet their criteria.
Mr A raised a complaint with HSBC, and they responded shortly afterwards stating he had 
already been told the reason why the request was declined, and their decision hadnt 
changed. 
Mr A was unhappy with HSBCs response, so he brought the complaint to this service and 
one of our investigators looked into matters. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything in the circumstances, as they had 
followed their usual process and progressed and responded to both the application and 
complaint in a reasonable manner. 
Mr A didnt agree, so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision. Mr A would like 
to know the reason why the application was declined and would like to be compensated for 
the poor customer service he received from HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I dont think HSBC have done anything 
wrong here and Ive explained why below.
I understand Mr A wants to know the specific reasons why Ts application was declined. In 
this case, HSBC explained that trust accounts are something they only offer in exceptional 
circumstances and Ts request didnt meet their criteria.
HSBC are entitled to make a commercial decision about what accounts they choose to open, 
using their own criteria and internal processes to determine this. This information can be 
commercially sensitive so its often not possible to get a specific answer to explain why an 
application has been turned down. 
I can appreciate this explanation doesnt satisfy Mr A, so Ive looked at the information 
HSBC has provided to our service and Ive considered whether HSBC have acted 
unreasonably in declining Ts request to open the trust account.
Banks make decisions about which accounts they will open based on their own criteria for 
account opening. Whilst all banks processes will vary, when they receive an application, 
they must follow their own internal processes for all customers and mustnt discriminate or 
otherwise process an application unfairly. 
The information HSBC have provided show that they processed Ts application in line with 
their internal process, as they would any other application. Having reviewed this information, 
Im satisfied that they followed their internal process and the reasons for declining the 
application were reasonable. 
HSBC have given Mr A their reason  the application simply didnt meet their internal criteria. 
This is all that HSBC are required to do. They arent required to go into any more detail or 
explain how their processes work. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong here.
Customer Service
I know Mr A feels strongly about the level of customer service hes received from HSBC as 
part of this process. So, Ive reviewed the evidence to see if HSBC have treated him 
unreasonably or unfairly in the process of applying for the account for T.
I havent seen any prolonged delays in HSBCs communication with Mr A and I think the 
information they requested from T was reasonable for them to be able to make their 
decision. As Ive covered off above, they werent required to give T any further reason for the 
declined application.
Although complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, I can see that Mr A received a swift 
response to the original complaint, so I cant find that HSBC have treated Mr A unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
In summary, I can understand Mr As frustration and how he might feel that his time has 
been wasted, but unfortunately there is never a guarantee with any application that it will be 
accepted. 
Ive not seen that HSBC have caused any unnecessary delays, asked for any excessive 
information or made any mistakes in the process. So, Im unable to find that theyve done 
anything wrong here. 
Whilst I appreciate the situation has caused frustration, I havent found that HSBC have 
treated T unfairly in either the application process or in declining to open the account. So, I 
wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman