DRN-2968530
Complaint
Miss R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided her with an 
overdraft which it then unfairly added interest, fees and charges to when she was in financial 
difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Miss R was experiencing difficulty by the time in renewed her overdraft in January 2018 
and so it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added from this point. 
Lloyds didnt accept our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
when in renewed Miss Rs overdraft in January 2018. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Miss R had rarely seen a credit balance since her 
overdraft had been increased three times within the space of just over a fortnight. So Miss R 
was clearly hardcore borrowing. Equally, I can also see regular payments to at least one 
payday lender too. Miss Rs income may have matched her declaration at the time of her 
application. But its clear that the credits going into the account werent bringing her overdraft 
balance down within a reasonable period of time.
So I think that by January 2018, Lloyds should have realised that Miss R was struggling and 
offered her assistance rather than adding even more fees and charges to accounts she was 
already struggling to manage. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Rs account usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And as this led to Miss R 
paying additional interest, fees and charges when she was already experiencing difficulty, 
Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of Lloyds failing to act fairly and reasonably towards 
her. So Lloyds needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Rs account balances so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it (and not already refunded) from January 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Rs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Miss Rs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman