DRN-2839858
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy a claim made under her home insurance has been declined by AXA
Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs F contacted AXA, the provider of her home insurance, to claim for damage
to her roof. AXA asked Mrs F to provide a report outlining the cause of damage, a quote for
repair and photos.
Mrs F arranged for a contractor to look at the roof and complete a quote, which was sent to
AXA. As this didnt say what had caused the damage AXA asked the contractor, and they
said it was caused by poor workmanship.
AXA declined the claim on the basis damage caused by poor workmanship isnt an insured
event which is covered under Mrs Fs policy.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it hadnt
been shown an insured event occurred. She said she didnt think there were storm
conditions, and Mrs Fs contractor had said poor workmanship.
Our investigator noted that Mrs F had said that the contractor had made a mistake in their
comments and contacted them directly. But they said they didnt have any of the information
about the roof anymore. She also looked at images of the damage, but this didnt change her
view.
Mrs F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. But to 
manage Mrs Fs expectations, there isnt enough at this stage to say AXA should be 
covering her claim for damage to her roof. Rather I think AXA need to do more in 
order to decide whether Mrs F has a valid claim or not. And I think they shouldve 
done this sooner. Ill explain why.
Firstly I should explain that AXA used a supplier to handle the claim on their behalf, 
and where Ive referenced AXA, this also includes actions by their appointed 
suppliers.
Mrs Fs policy covers a number of insured events, such as fire, theft, and storm. For 
a claim to be successful, it needs to be one of these insured events, and not 
defeated by an exclusion in the policy.
Mrs F first reported that there was a crack on her chimney and slates had fallen from 
her roof in April 2020. This was following bad weather. Shes also said she had rain 
water coming in through her roof into the attic.
Our investigator said she didnt think there were storm conditions. But AXA didnt 
decline the claim on this basis. In fact the file notes show they noted weather 
conditions were potentially storm force including high windspeeds. And this is why 
they asked Mrs F to obtain a quote and cause of damage report after she contacted 
them, so they could consider whether Mrs F had a valid storm damage claim.
A quote was submitted to AXA in October 2020. This mentioned works to a flat roof 
along with repairing four slates on the main roof. When AXA asked what the cause of 
damage was, Mrs Fs contractor said poor workmanship. This isnt an insured event 
under Mrs Fs policy, so in principle it wouldnt be unreasonable for AXA to decline 
the claim on this basis.
However, Mrs F has said the contractor commented on the wrong part of the roof 
when asked for the cause of damage. Ive seen the email the contractor sent AXA at 
the time. They said when AXA had contacted them for the cause of damage, this was 
said in relation to the flat roof, not the slates on the main roof. But AXA didnt ask any 
more questions around this, or about the main roof damage.
Mrs F isnt claiming for the flat roof. Rather shes claiming for the missing tiles on the 
main roof. And the loss originally reported to AXA was only about the main roof, not 
the flat roof. But AXA didnt consider this part of the claim further even though the 
contractor had clarified poor workmanship was in relation to the flat roof only. AXA 
didnt ask any further questions and I think they should have. Instead they focussed 
on poor workmanship to decline the entire claim, rather than considering if there was 
storm damage to the main roof, which was being claimed for.
Our investigator asked the contractor directly if they still had any information about 
the roof, but they said theyd disposed of everything since then.
But Mrs F has provided images of the main roof and missing tiles, which AXA has 
also seen. AXA says the images dont override the poor workmanship conclusion 
given by the contractor. However as Ive mentioned, and as AXA should be aware as 
theyve already been told, the poor workmanship conclusion is only in relation to the 
flat roof, not the main roof. So I dont think this position is reasonable.
AXA initially agreed there were potentially storm force conditions which is why they 
asked Mrs F to provide a quote and report. Mrs F has provided a quote which 
includes replacing four missing tiles  which could be consistent with storm damage 
 along with supporting images of those missing tiles.
So I think here Mrs F has shown she could have a potential storm damage claim 
which in principle her policy might cover, but for an exclusion. So its for AXA to then 
show an exclusion applies or another reason why it shouldnt be covered.
But AXA didnt get as far as that, as they incorrectly focussed on poor workmanship 
to another area of the roof, rather than whether there was a valid storm (or other event such as accidental damage) claim. Even though theyd already been told this 
wasnt correct by the person who said it. So I think AXA shouldve asked additional 
questions and considered the claim further and whether it was valid at that time.
So at this stage, Im minded to say AXA need to continue considering whether Mrs F 
has a valid storm damage (or any other insured event - such as accidental damage) 
claim, for both internal and external damage to her property. And AXA may need 
further information, or to carry out visual inspections, in order to do so and to reach 
that decision. So Im asking both parties to respond to my provisional decision 
whether they are in agreement with this  AXA further considering the claim to reach 
a decision.
If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and after this, AXA
considers the claim further and decides not to deal with it on the basis of an 
exclusion, not an insured event or otherwise (and Mrs F remains unhappy) we might 
be able to consider that as a new separate complaint based on that new position.
I dont think the service Mrs F has received has been in line with her reasonable
expectations and AXA shouldve done more earlier on. Im minded to conclude AXA 
has acted unfairly by declining the claim at this stage for the reasons Ive explained. 
And Mrs F has been caused distress by this. So Im also minded to say AXA should 
compensate Mrs F £100, in addition to continuing considering whether Mrs F has a 
valid claim under the terms of her policy.
Therefore I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct AXA to continue considering 
whether Mrs F has a valid claim under her policy, and to compensate her £100.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded and agreed with my provisional decision.
Mrs F also responded. She said she accepted my provisional decision, but also explained 
again why she was unhappy with the service received from AXA when they declined her 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. And having 
done so, Ive not changed my mind.
Neither party has provided a response which would lead me to depart from my provisional 
findings. And I do appreciate the service Mrs F received wasnt in line with her reasonable 
expectations, so thats why Im awarding £100 compensation.
As I also explained, AXA didnt get as far as considering whether Mrs F had a valid claim 
under her policy, as they relied on information from Mrs Fs contractor incorrectly. This is 
why Ive concluded AXA should continue considering whether Mrs F has a valid claim under 
her policy. And AXA may also need further information from Mrs F in order to do so.
And as I explained, if after AXA has done this and if Mrs F remains unhappy with the 
decision that is ultimately reached, we might be able to consider this as a new separate 
complaint based on that new position.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Continue considering whether Mrs F has a valid claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms
Pay Mrs F £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman