DRN-2336663
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Ms W. The policy 
number ended in 6238 and covered Ms W against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Ms W says she cannot remember when, how or where the policy was taken out, but she 
recalls being advised that she needed to take it out in order to be accepted for a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
The first thing to explain is that neither party is able to provide details of the actual sale date 
of the mortgage or the PPI. That isnt surprising or unusual as businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely and although I have no doubt that Ms W has provided me with her 
honest and genuine recollections, she also cant recall everything that happened - which is 
understandable given the amount of time that has passed. But where the information is 
incomplete, I will make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is what is 
most likely to have happened taking into account what the parties have told us, any evidence 
that is available and also taking into account what we do know about these types of sales at 
the time. 
Ms W took out an MPPI policy with Santander to cover her mortgage repayments. But as I 
explained both parties do not recall where, when or how the policy was sold although this is 
understandable due to the amount of years that have passed. So, it has been very difficult 
for me to understand in the first instance when the PPI was sold by Santander to Ms W. 
Santander has said the policy was sold at some point in the 1990s. Ms W does not recall 
when it was sold at all and has given a date of January 2000 on a form to our service. But I 
can see from the business records that the last premium was collected by Santander in 
March 1998, so it is unlikely to have been sold in January 2000. I can see when the last 
premium was collected, as Santander has provided some screenshots of Ms Ws mortgage 
account, albeit these are not complete. 
From these screenshots, I have also been able to ascertain that PPI was taken from Ms Ws 
account in January 1997. This is the first date that the account information starts from. As I 
have already found, the last premium was collected in March 1998. And the mortgage was 
redeemed in November 2000. I have not been able to find out when the mortgage started or 
when PPI was sold to Ms W. But I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that as PPI was 
on Ms Ws statement in January 1997, and in the absence of any other information, that I 
should proceed with this as the date of sale. In any event even if it was sold before that this 
wouldnt make any difference to my decision for reasons I will explain.  
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Here are my reasons:
I have first of all looked into whether Ms W were given a choice to have the MPPI policy. 
This has been a difficult issue for me to consider as I havent been able to see the sales 
documentation that would have been used at the time of sale in 1997. 
I have though considered what I know of these type of sales that happened at that time 
and also read Ms Ws recollections. Having done this, I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Ms W and Santander during the meeting. Its completely 
understandable that Ms Ws recollections are not detailed and as I have already said the 
sale took place many years ago. And because of this and considering what I know of 
sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence is strong enough 
for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature to Ms W. 
I havent, on this occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw that 
conclusion.
I have next considered whether Santander provided advice to Ms W or not during the 
sale. As an advised sale this put more responsibility on Santander for how it sold the 
policy and in the absence of Santander being able to give more information, I think it is 
fair to Ms W if I look at this sale as an advised sale. This meant that Santander had to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for her as well as giving her 
clear enough information so she could decide for herself whether she wanted the policy.
And based on what I do know of sales with Santander in 1997 and Ms Ws 
circumstances, I think the policy was suitable for her. I say this because, although she 
says she would have had savings, the MPPI policy would have paid out in addition to 
any means she would have had and likely for longer (more likely 24 months per claim). 
Having the policy in place would mean Ms W could use any provisions she may have 
had to cover other expenses. So, I think she would have found some use by having the 
cover and as Ms W was taking out a mortgage, the consequences of being unable to 
repay it if she lost her job or couldnt work for a while were serious. So, I think this policy 
was suitable for her to protect her home.
Ms W was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example, those that affect self-employed people or policy holders with pre-
existing medical conditions. Ms W told us she was in good health and had worked in her 
job for many years since 1987. So, I think it was likely suitable for her. And It is unlikely 
Ms W needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
and if they had received clear information on these terms, I dont think it would have put 
her off. I still think she would likely have bought the policy.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Ms W clear information about the costs of the policy, but 
even if it did, I dont think Ms W would have done anything differently for the same 
reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
Finally, Ms W says in her most recent submission that she would like things looking at again 
as the adjudicators view was based on opinion and not facts. As I have already concluded, very little information has been provided by either party and there is very little known about 
this sale. And so, our adjudicator needed to look any information provided at all on the 
balance of probabilities in order to draw a conclusion. As I set out this is also the standard I 
have used in deciding Ms Ws complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but taking everything into account, I do not think the policy was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman