DRN-4481396
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. She says they shouldnt have lent to 
her because the repayments werent affordable. 
What happened
In November 2014, Mrs K took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a car. She borrowed £9,600  the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement 
required Mrs K to make 59 monthly repayments of £294.40. Mrs K struggled to make the 
repayments almost immediately and Moneybarn issued a number of default notices. But 
Mrs K made up the missed payments and settled the agreement in August 2020.
Mrs K complained to Moneybarn in February 2023, saying Moneybarn had failed to conduct 
appropriate affordability checks before lending to her. She said shed struggled financially in 
a number of areas and suffered distress when being chased by Moneybarn for the debt.
In response, Moneybarn said Mrs K had complained too late. However, when Mrs K brought 
the complaint to our service, we decided she had complained in time. So Moneybarn 
investigated and told us they had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, including 
checking Mrs Ks credit file and reviewing her payslips to verify her income. 
Our investigator disagreed though. He said Mrs Ks credit file contained several indicators 
that Mrs K might have been struggling financially so it would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to gain a more thorough understanding of Mrs Ks financial circumstances before 
deciding to lend to her. But our investigator said if Moneybarn had carried out proportionate 
checks, theyd have seen the agreement was affordable for Mrs K at the time  so he didnt 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K rejected our investigators view. She said her husband was suffering with ill health at 
the time and was only working intermittently. On top of that, she said, he had a gambling 
addiction, which meant he wasnt covering his share of the bills. So Mrs K said it wasnt 
reasonable to suggest her expenditure was only half of the household expenditure. In 
addition she said she was supporting her daughter at the time. And she was supposed to be 
making repayments on a secured loan against her house which had defaulted. Mrs K asked 
for a decision  and the matter came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October 2023, saying I was inclined to uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. In that I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said theyd noted Mrs K had caring responsibilities, and that she was 
employed full-time and a homeowner. They checked Mrs Ks income to payslips and 
verified the amount as £1,815 per month. 
Moneybarn said theyd also looked at Mrs Ks credit file. They havent kept a copy but 
theyve told us this showed Mrs K had active credit balances totalling £1,251. They said it 
showed shed had one cash advance in the preceding three months, a County Court 
Judgment which was over five years old, and three defaults. They said the total original 
default balance was £29,100, of which £25,000 was still outstanding at the agreement 
date. And they said the most recent default was ten months prior to the agreement. 
Because of the size of the default balances, and the fact that one of them had only 
defaulted ten months prior to the agreement, I dont think these checks were 
proportionate. The agreement required Mrs K to make repayments of over 16% of her 
monthly income for five years, leaving her with around £1,500 of the £1,815 to cover her 
living expenses and credit commitments.
I havent seen any evidence that Moneybarn made any assessment of Mrs Ks 
expenditure. And without doing so I dont think it was fair to conclude that Mrs K would be 
able to make the repayments sustainably over the five years of the agreement. 
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mrs Ks 
expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive looked at statements for Mrs Ks bank accounts for the three months leading up to 
her application to Moneybarn. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank 
statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank 
statements provide a good indication of Mrs Ks income and expenditure at the time the 
lending decision was made.
The bank statements show that Mrs Ks income from employment was regular and 
roughly the same amount each month. On average her net monthly income across 
August to October 2014 was £2,060. She had no other regular sources of income. 
Looking at the monthly average of regular payments from Mrs Ks bank statements, these 
amounted to around £320 on mortgage arrears, £363 repaying a secured loan, £265 on 
gas, electricity and water, £200 on phone, internet and TV services, £142 on insurances, 
and an average of £100 per month on debt repayments. She was also committed to £51 
per month on gym memberships and was spending around £200 per month on food. On 
top of this, Mrs K was supporting her daughter who was a student at the time  on 
average she transferred around £300 per month to her. The total of this expenditure, all of 
which was either committed or non-discretionary, was £1,941. 
Mrs Ks told us her husband was only able to work intermittently at the time. She was in 
arrears on a loan secured on her house and also on her mortgage. And she was regularly 
in her overdraft on one account, had bounced direct debits on another account, and was 
using expensive short term loans. Shes told us she was responsible for the household 
expenditure, and thats evident from her statements  I cant see any significant 
contributions into her bank account and she had very little money to spare. 
Taking everything together, Im inclined to say if Moneybarn had done proportionate 
checks, theyd have found that Mrs Ks income only exceeded her committed and non-discretionary expenditure by around £100 per month so she wouldnt be able to make 
repayments of nearly £300 per month without borrowing elsewhere or missing other 
priority payments. On that basis I dont think Moneybarn should have lent to Mrs K.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K accepted my provisional decision, and Moneybarn didnt respond. So Ive nothing 
further to add  my findings are unchanged from those set out above.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreements. But Mrs K has had the use of 
the vehicle, for the term of the agreement and beyond. I think its fair Moneybarn retain an 
amount for that use, and Im satisfied that amount should be the cash price of the car, being 
£9,600. 
To settle Mrs Ks complaint therefore, Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless, as it seems, this has already 
been done. 
Refund all the payments Mrs K has made, less £9,600 for fair usage. 
oIf Mrs K has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Mrs K has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn have received the fair usage amount, they should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mrs Ks credit file regarding the agreement.
If Moneybarn consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mrs K a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mrs K can 
reclaim that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited need to 
take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman