DRN-3878449
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund card payments he says he didnt 
make or authorise and with its decision to close his account.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr F called Monzo in respect of three disputed transactions. He was directed to 
Monzos chat where he reported the following transactions:
Date Merchant Amount
01/04/22 G £91.55
02/04/22 W £12.66
07/04/22 W £243.60
In response to questions raised by Monzo Mr F said that his card hadnt been out of his 
possession, his mobile phone was password or biometric protected and nobody else had 
access to it, and that he didnt keep his PIN anywhere.
Metro investigated Mr Fs claim and said that as the payments were authorised using 3D 
Secure which requires access to the Monzo app on Mr Fs device, which was in his 
possession, it felt Mr F made or authorised the transactions. Mr F disagreed and said his 
mobile device hadnt been in his possession. He also raised further disputed transactions 
which pre-dated those in the table above and involved another merchant, S. Mr F explained 
that his mobile had been out of his possession when he lost it in a club on 28 December 
2021 and that he had located it in a park on 8 January 2022.
Metro also didnt agree to refund the transactions to S as it said it had evidence that the 
transactions were made with 3D Secure from Mr Fs registered mobile device. This means 
that the payments were approved in the Monzo app and a PIN was entered. The payments 
to S were also made a period of time apart and only one of them was when Mr F says he 
didnt have his mobile phone. Metro gave Mr F 60 days notice of the closure of his account. 
Mr F raised further disputes with Monzo including three payments to T on 28 April 2022. 
Monzo didnt refund these transactions but did provide credits in respect of other disputed 
transactions. 
Our investigation so far
Mr F brought a complaint to this service. In his first call with the investigator who considered 
his concerns Mr F referred to the two payments to W (in the table above) and three disputed 
transactions to T on 28 April 2022, as well as the closure of his account. He explained that 
he went to Paris on 26 March and returned on 30 March 2022. While he was in Paris he was 
mugged, his card was stolen, and he was forced to divulge his PIN. 
In a later call with the investigator Mr F explained that he was mugged in Paris on 1 April 
2022 and his mobile phone and card were taken. Mr F was also forced to provide a 
passcode to give access to his mobile and to divulge his PIN. He said he reported the 
incident to police the following day and also claimed through his travel insurance policy as 
cash was also stolen. The investigator asked Mr F to provide evidence that he travelled to 
Paris, for the police report and documentation in respect of his insurance claim but none 
have been provided. The investigator also discussed the fact that around the time of the 
disputed transactions there were other transactions in Iceland that hadnt been disputed. Mr 
F explained that he hadnt been to Iceland. Mr F suggested that a representative helped him 
when he initially disputed the payments with Monzo and had got things wrong. 
After carefully considering the evidence, the investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
She was satisfied Mr F authorised the payments and noted that he had provided inconsistent 
versions of events to Monzo and this service. The investigator also said that Monzo acted 
reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account in giving notice 
to close it. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his case 
has been passed to me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out above a fairly detailed chronology as Mr Fs version of events hasnt been 
consistent. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking Mr F is 
responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments except in 
more limited circumstances. 
First of all, I need to clarify which disputed transactions this final decision covers. I can only 
consider the five transactions to G, W and S. This is because Mr F hadnt raised a complaint 
with Monzo about the other transactions when he brought his complaint to this service and 
Monzo hasnt issued a final response in relation to them. So if Mr F wishes this service to 
consider any other disputed transactions, including those to T, he needs to follow Monzos 
complaint process first. I have referred to these other transactions in my What happened 
section simply to make matters clearer. 
Since Mr F raised his complaint, he has told the investigator that he no longer disputes the 
payments to S, so I wont discuss these any further. This means I am only considering the 
transactions to G and to W.
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I agree with the investigators findings and so am not 
asking Monzo to do anything more. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account the 
following:
- Ive seen technical evidence which shows that each of the three transactions Im 
considering were verified using 3D Secure. This means that whoever made the 
transactions had access to Mr Fs Monzo account on his registered mobile and knew 
his PIN.
- When the disputed transactions were first reported to Monzo, Mr F said that his 
mobile phone had remained in his possession and was password or biometric protected and nobody had access to his PIN. He made no mention of being mugged. 
I appreciate that Mr F says a representative provided incorrect information when the 
disputed transaction was raised but Im not persuaded she had access to Mr Fs 
mobile app in the way Mr F suggested to the investigator. 
- Mr F later explained that he was mugged in Paris in the early hours of 1 April 2022 
and so didnt have his registered mobile device in his possession when the disputed 
transactions were made. He also says he was forced to provide security information 
that allowed the criminals who mugged him access to his mobile banking app and his 
PIN. Although Mr F has been asked for evidence of this in terms of travel documents, 
a police report and evidence of the travel insurance claim he made as a result, he 
hasnt provided anything. 
- Having reviewed the other available evidence, Ive been unable to identify any 
evidence of undisputed transactions on Mr Fs statements when he told us he was in 
France. Instead, his statements show numerous payments made using Chip and 
PIN, contactless and 3D Secure in Iceland between 3 and 9 April 2022. Mr F says he 
did attempt to raise those payments with Monzo but was unable to, but I havent seen 
any evidence in Monzos records that he did. If Mr F did report them, as he says, I 
find it surprising that Mr F did not pursue his claim further with Monzo given the 
cumulative value of them.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr F didnt make or authorise the transactions he has 
disputed so I cant reasonably ask Monzo to refund them. 
Closure of Mr Fs account
Mr F is unhappy with Monzos decision to close his account after giving him 60 days notice 
of its intention to do so. He believes that Monzo has discriminated against him because of a 
vulnerability he disclosed to it.
Monzos terms and conditions say,
We can close your account by giving you at least two months notice.
Im satisfied Monzo acted reasonably and in accordance with these terms in providing notice 
of the closure of Mr Fs account. I havent seen any evidence of discrimination or of unfairly 
applying the terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman