DRN-3436275
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly turned 
down his claim made about something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In January 2012, Mr and Mrs M purchased holiday club membership from a business called 
Club La Costa (the Supplier). This cost £8,0991 and was paid by Mrs M paying £4,000 on a 
credit card provided by a different business and Mr M paying £4,099 on his Barclaycard. But 
this credit card payment wasnt made directly to the Supplier, rather it went to a different 
business, FNTC.
In November 2019, using a professional representative (PR), Mr M made a claim to 
Barclaycard under ss.75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).2 In short, PR 
said the Supplier made misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, 
Barclaycard was jointly responsible to answer. PR also said there was an unfair debtor- 
creditor relationship arising out of the sale that, under s.140A CCA, Barclaycard were also 
responsible to answer.
Barclaycard didnt respond to the claim and so PR referred a complaint to our service that Mr 
Ms claim hadnt been dealt with properly.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Barclaycard needed to do 
anything further. He thought the claim made under s.75 CCA had been made too late to 
Barclaycard under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) as Mr M had six years 
from the date of sale to make a misrepresentation claim. He also considered the claim under 
s.140A CCA, but thought as Mr M had cleared his balance in full the month after hed paid 
the Supplier, he had six years from then to make claim. So he concluded Barclaycard had a 
defence to all claims under the LA.
PR said that Mr M didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. In doing so it said Mr M had longer to bring a claim due to the operation 
of s.32 LA. Further, PR said the membership operated as a collective investment scheme 
(CIS), which was something it wished an ombudsman to take into consideration.
I considered the relevant information about this complaint and, having done so, I didnt think 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, but for different reasons to our investigator. So I issued 
a provisional decision and invited both parties to respond before I issued a final decision.
I explained that, when deciding complaints, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA 
1 The membership application form says the price was £8,099, but the pricing summary prepared on 
the same day says the cost was actually £43,599, but an allowance of £35,500 was given for the 
trade in of other memberships held with the Supplier. If the actual cost was above £30,000, this would 
mean Mr M wouldnt be able to make some of the claims that he has, but for the reasons set out in 
this decision, Ive not needed to make a finding on the actual purchase cost.
2 As the Barclaycard used was in Mr Ms name, only he was able to make those claims and bring this 
complaint.
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mr Ms behalf under ss.75 and 140A CCA. I thought it was helpful to 
set out the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the lender (here 
Barclaycard) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr M) for the misrepresentations of the 
supplier (here the Supplier). But I said, on the face of it, there were no such arrangements in 
place at the relevant times as the Supplier wasnt paid directly using the credit card, rather 
the payments were taken by FNTC.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. I noted that since our investigator issued his view, the law in 
this area had been clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc 
[2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S 
agreement in circumstances where FNTC took payment on a credit card in relation to the 
purchase of timeshare membership from the Supplier. The court considered the 
arrangements between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to the Supplier was 
made outside of the credit card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in 
place.
The circumstances of Mr Ms case are very similar. Here, the same businesses were 
involved and payment was taken in the same way. So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I 
thought a court would come to a similar conclusion and say that there was no D-C-S 
agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim as the Supplier wasnt paid under 
an agreement involving Barclaycard.
I also thought about the claim made under s.140A CCA and whether a court would conclude 
the relationship was unfair. However, a court could only consider how the agreements 
between Mr M and the Supplier affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor relationship if 
there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, as already explained, I didnt think such 
an arrangement was in place, nor had Mr M suggested there was an unfair relationship for 
any other reason.
It follows that I didnt think the CCA applied to the claims PR advanced on Mr Ms behalf in 
the way PR suggested. Given that, I didnt need to make any findings on the LA or the time 
limits that apply to those claims, as I didnt think the claims could be made.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think it 
would be fair to make Barclaycard responsible for the Suppliers alleged failures when the 
law doesnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Barclaycard and the Supplier were 
connected in any way nor was there any other reason to say Barclaycard should be 
responsible for the Suppliers alleged failings.
I also considered some of the other things said by PR. It alleged that the membership was a 
CIS and that was something to take into consideration. In so far as that might lead to an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship, for the reasons already explained, I didnt think that was 
something Barclaycard needs to consider. Further, it had been recently held in a court judgment that a very similar type of timeshare membership did not amount to a CIS.3 I 
couldnt see why Mr Ms membership could amount to a CIS, given the findings the court 
reached. So I didnt think this was something that Barclaycard needed to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision. PR didnt respond. As 
Ive not been provided anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman
3 See R (on the application of Shawbrook Bank Limited and Clydesdale Financial Services Limited) v. 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2023] EWHC 1069 (Admin)