DRN-4263711
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr H acquired a used car from Advantage Finance under a hire purchase 
agreement. The car was five years old and had covered approximately 11,500 miles when 
the agreement started. The agreement was for 60 months, and the cash price of the car was 
£10,699.
Mr H took the car for a service and MOT in January 2023. He had travelled approximately 
47,000 miles in the car at this point. Unfortunately, the car failed the MOT as the MOT centre 
explained the car had a hairline crack in the engine, and the engine would need to be 
replaced. Mr H has said the MOT centre told him this was a known fault with the model of 
car he had, and the manufacturer had issued a recall notice because of it. However, the 
manufacturer had since confirmed to Mr H that no recall notice had been issued for the year 
of manufacture of the car he had been supplied with.
Mr H complained to Advantage Finance in February 2023. He said the car they had supplied 
him with wasnt of satisfactory quality and he wanted Advantage Finance to either cover the 
cost of the engine replacement or allow him to reject the car. Advantage Finance arranged 
for an independent inspection of the car to take place. This inspection concluded the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, and the fault with the engine was more than 
likely caused by age-related wear and tear. Because of this, Advantage Finance wouldnt 
agree to repair the car or take it back from Mr H.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said she accepted there was a fault with the car, but didnt accept the 
evidence supplied suggested the fault had been present or was developing when the car 
was supplied to Mr H. She agreed with the inspection report that the fault more than likely 
occurred because of age-related wear and tear. 
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained that the car supplied to him by Advantage Finance wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
As Mr H didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered by Mr H is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Advantage Finance are also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr H entered. 
Because Advantage Finance supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory 
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into 
account factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid.
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Mr Hs case, the car was used and had covered approximately 11,500 
miles when he acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
Our investigator has explained that shes satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr H. I agree in this case. There is no doubt that the car has a serious fault 
 all the inspections carried out confirm that to be the case. But Im not persuaded, from 
what Ive seen, that I can conclude the car was faulty when it was supplied to Mr H. Ill 
explain why.
The CRA explains that where goods are found not to have conformed to the contract within 
the first six months, it is presumed the goods did not conform to the contract at the point of 
supply. Unless the supplier, Advantage Finance in this case, can prove otherwise. But in 
Mr Hs case, it was just under two years from when he first acquired the car to when the 
engine fault was first reported. So, under the CRA it would normally be for him to prove that 
the fault with the engine had been present from the point the car had been supplied to him. 
However, Advantage Finance agreed to arrange an independent inspection of the car, at no 
cost to Mr H, to determine when the fault with the car had occurred. 
The independent inspection report is, in my opinion, the most persuasive piece of evidence 
in this case. It was a physical inspection of the car by a qualified car technician. The 
technician concluded that there was no suggestion that the issues present with the car were 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr H. The report explained the fault had 
developed because of age-related wear and tear. The technician felt that Mr H would not 
have been able to travel the miles he had in the car, approximately 47,000 in just under two 
years, without the fault being noticed previously. Mr H hasnt been able to provide any 
independent evidence to counter what the report says. Because of that, I dont have 
anything that dissuades me from agreeing with the findings of the inspection report, or that 
leads me to say Advantage Finance acted unreasonably by following the guidance contained 
within the report. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Advantage Finance have acted 
reasonably towards Mr H in this case. 
It's also worth mentioning that Mr H had taken the car for a MOT in January 2022, which the 
car had passed. I think its reasonable to conclude that the MOT check would have picked 
up any faults or cracks in the engine at that stage, as it was a MOT check in January 2023 
that identified the fault. So, it follows that Im persuaded the crack in the engine wasnt 
present when Mr H took it for its first MOT under his agreement term. Im more satisfied than 
not that the MOT centre would have noticed it at that stage, and the car would have more 
than likely failed the MOT in January 2022 because of the fault.
Mr H has said that he believes the fault with the engine is an inherent one, and that the manufacturer issued a recall notice for the model of car in question because of it. But the 
manufacturer themselves have confirmed in an email to Mr H that there hasnt been a recall 
of this model and year of car, so I cant say Im persuaded by Mr Hs argument here.  
Similarly he has provided a generic diagnostic report explaining what the potential problem 
could be, and what caused it, but this report isnt for the specific car Mr H acquired and is 
complaining about. It appears to cover a range of years that a car could have been 
manufactured. In the absence of anything from Mr H that relates to the car that is being 
complained about, I must conclude that I think Advantage Finance acted reasonably by 
arranging an independent inspection of the car and by following the findings of that report. 
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, as he still has the car, and it 
requires some significant repair work to enable it to be driven. However, I cant hold 
Advantage Finance responsible for that, for the reasons given. I wont be asking them to do 
anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman