DRN-2517873
The complaint
  Miss B complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her claim under her motor
insurance policy.
What happened
 Miss B was in a motorway accident on 5 December 2019. She said that it wasnt her fault.
AXA decided that her car was beyond economical repair and paid her its market value of
£5,500, less her policy excess. She said that they took too long to pay that and they took
back her hire car before then. She was unhappy about paying the excess when the accident
wasnt her fault. She also complained that AXAs communication was poor, and they took
too long to resolve the claim. So it remained open as a fault claim, which meant that she had
a higher premium with her new insurer.
AXA didnt think they had delayed in dealing with the third-party claim. They said that the
third party hadnt accepted liability, and that situation often took longer to resolve.
She was also dissatisfied with AXAs handling of her complaint. But as the investigator
explained to her, this service doesnt have jurisdiction to investigate that, so I cant comment
on that.
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint about the claim should be upheld. He
thought that AXA hadnt acted unreasonably. Miss B didnt agree and so I was asked to
decide. I issued my provisional decision on 11 December saying that I intended to partly 
uphold her complaint. Since then Miss B has commented but AXA have not, despite our 
investigators reminder
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As the investigator has explained to Miss B, its not this services role to decide who was at
fault in an accident, as that is a matter for the courts. We only consider whether a business
has acted in line with their policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and
reasonable way.
When Miss Bs insurance was due for renewal, the claim was still open. She said that this
increased her premium with her new insurer. She couldnt see why it was taking AXA so long
to finalise the claim. She said it was a simple accident in which with her car was hit from
behind, it clearly wasnt her fault, and there were no injuries.
Its standard motor insurance practice for an open claim to be recorded as a fault claim even
if the insured person wasnt at fault, and we dont think that unreasonable. Insurers treat a
claim as a fault one when they cant recover from the third-party insurer the claim costs
theyve paid out. It doesnt mean that AXA think that Miss B is to blame.
If an open claim is finally settled as not being the insured persons fault, a consumer can
approach their insurer and ask for them to recalculate the premium based on the claim
having been recorded as non-fault from the policy start. They may then get a refund on the
extra premium they paid due to the open claim.
And while the open claim for the December accident probably affected Miss Bs premium,
there may have been other factors affecting that too, including the previous accident shed
had in the October. This is because an accident is treated as a claim even if not her fault and
even if she didnt claim for any repairs.
As regards any policy excess, thats always payable on a claim under the policy, again
regardless of fault. Similarly, a no claims discount (NCD) can be affected due to an open
claim, regardless of who is at fault.
I could see from AXAs file that they believed that Miss B wasnt at fault in the accident. Its
also clear that AXA contacted the third-party insurer about them being liable. This was in
December 2019 and February 2020. But the third-party insurer didnt reply. And when that
happens, or there are disputes about liability, it does take longer to resolve a claim. The third
partys actions are outside the control of AXA and so it wouldnt be fair to blame them for
those if AXA have acted reasonably there. In the meantime, AXA did settle her claim for her
car. They did that within about two months from the accident date, so I didnt think that was
unreasonable. And once they settled the claim the hire car period ends, so they arent
required to let a consumer keep that until they get a new car. 
Although matters can take some time when liability is in dispute or the third party doesnt 
cooperate, I thought that AXA acted quickly. They wrote to the third-party insurer the day 
after the accident. They followed this up in February.
Theyd told Miss B at about the end of January that they were in the process of getting the
third-party liability. However, I hadnt seen anything from AXA after that date but before the
investigators view some months later. So I didnt think that AXA kept Miss B informed. I was 
not persuaded that AXA did enough to contact the third-party insurer and to establish 
liability, or that they fairly explained to Miss B what they were doing and why. I thought that 
they should have also explained to her what the potential outcomes of their actions were, for 
example if the third-party insurer refused to accept liability or continued to fail to reply. I 
thought it would have been fair for AXA to tell Miss B what AXA would do in those situations.
Putting things right
 I thought that AXAs failure to do the above things caused Miss B frustration and uncertainty 
and so I thought they should offer her £150 as compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience.
I thought that AXA should explain to Miss B what theyve done and are doing as regards
establishing liability, and what their intentions are and their intended next steps, with the
potential outcomes for her. If after that Miss B remained dissatisfied with AXAs actions, she
could raise another complaint against AXA and come back to this service if she was not 
happy with the outcome.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision within the time limit. Miss B did reply. She 
restated some points from the original evidence about what she said was AXAs poor 
customer service, but Ive already taken that into account in my provisional decision that 
AXA didnt fairly keep her updated about what they were doing or why. She would like not to have to deal further with AXA about ongoing matters arising from the claim, and so would 
like me to increase the compensation to £500. However I still think that the compensation 
award from my provisional decision remains sufficient as reflective of the inconvenience AXA 
caused her. 
Miss B confirmed that AXA did close her claim as non-fault in late 2020, and so I take that 
into account in modifying my requirements of AXA. However otherwise I maintain my 
provisional decision. 
 
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision its my final decision that I 
partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Pay Miss B £150 in compensation* for her distress and inconvenience.
Write to Miss B explaining what they have done and intend to do as regards
            recovering their costs from the third party.
Explain to Miss B the potential outcomes of these actions and intentions above, and
            the effect of those on Miss Bs premium and her NCD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
*AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss B 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If AXA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off and give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
