DRN-2704502
The complaint
Miss W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused her entry to a 
branch. 
What happened
Miss W had a current account with RBS. In November 2020 she attempted to enter a branch 
as she needed to withdraw a large amount of money  greater than her daily allowance from 
a cash point. The staff member on the door told her she needed to wear a face covering due 
to coronavirus restrictions in place at the time. Miss W explained she was exempt and 
showed her exemption lanyard.
After this, there is some disagreement about what happened. RBS said that Miss W became 
aggressive and rude to its staff and they had to call the police. Miss W says that RBS staff 
were rude and refused her entry because she wasnt wearing a mask, even thought shed 
proved she was exempt. 
After the incident Miss W made a complaint to RBS. It didnt uphold the complaint and said 
that Miss W had acted unreasonably towards staff members. It said she had filmed them and 
put the videos on social media without their consent which was unreasonable. It said the 
reason it didnt let her in the branch was due to her behaviour and not sure to the fact she 
didnt wear a mask, as it recognises some customers are exempt. 
Miss W didnt agree this was fair and felt she should be compensated for the upset caused. 
She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
She said the only evidence she had been able to review was the videos provided by Miss W 
and these didnt match the statements given by RBS, as Miss W wasnt being unreasonable. 
She therefore thought RBS should pay Miss W £100 compensation.
RBS accepted this and agreed to pay Miss W the compensation. Miss W didnt agree as she 
thought it should pay more than this. As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W and RBS have provided differing accounts of what happened on the day in question. 
When there are two contrasting accounts, I have to decide what most likely happened, 
based on the available evidence. And based on this, decide whether RBS has acted fairly.
RBS has been able to offer very little evidence of the events in question. It has explained it 
doesnt retain its CCTV footage past 60 days. And while it has said it has viewed further 
videos taken by Miss W that prove its version of events, it has said it hasnt kept copies of 
these. It has provided statements from staff members at the branch. 
Miss W has provided two videos of the event and a photo of her lanyard that exempts her 
from wearing a face mask. 
I have considered all the evidence provided. The statements from staff members at the 
branch describe unreasonable and abusive behaviour. However the videos provided by 
Miss W show her requesting to enter the branch, but staff being uncooperative and 
obstructive. There is no evidence from these videos that she raised her voice or acted 
abusively. 
While I accept that these videos only show small portions of the events that took place. I can 
only consider the evidence available. The videos I have seen dont match the descriptions in 
the statements provided by staff of the same moment. Miss W is calmly requesting to enter 
the branch and the staff member is saying he is calling the police. He then closes the door 
on her. 
So while I accept there may be more to this event than I have been able to see, from what I 
have seen I think RBS staff acted in a way that was disproportionate to Miss Ws actions. 
And so I dont think it treated Miss W fairly in the circumstances. Particularly as she was 
attending branch to carry out a transaction that could only be done in branch. 
Further RBS has now agreed to pay Miss W £100 compensation to make up for any distress 
or inconvenience it caused. I agree that this is a fair resolution in the circumstances. 
Miss W has said she doesnt think this is enough compensation to make up for the distress 
caused. While Ive considered her reasons, I am satisfied £100 is fair and in line with what 
we would recommend in other cases of this nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay Miss W £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman