DRN-1735221
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the success fee charged by We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) 
following a successful claim with lender S. 
What happened
Mrs S instructed WFAC to represent her in making payment protection insurance (PPI) 
claims in November 2017. The signed agreement confirmed that WFAC would charge 33% 
inclusive of VAT in the event of any successful claim. 
Lender S confirmed Mrs S had taken out PPI with them. WFAC contacted Mrs S to complete 
a PPI questionnaire so a claim could be sent to lender S. It was recorded that Mrs S worked 
fewer than 16 hours. 
In January 2018 WFAC sent Mrs S claim to lender S, including a copy of the completed 
PPIQ. In March, lender S wrote to WFAC and Mrs S saying that they wouldnt be offering 
any compensation for Mrs S claim. 
Mrs S has told this service that she spoke to a member of WFAC at the time and asked 
about pursing claims herself, and was given the impression that we were free to do this 
independently. Mrs S later found a copy of her employment contract confirming her hours of 
work, and sent this directly to lender S.
WFAC wrote to Mrs S explaining that they required additional information from Mrs S in 
order to refer the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service. On 16 August lender S wrote 
to WFAC and Mrs S offering £725.60 in settlement of Mrs S claim. WFAC contacted Mrs S 
asking for the success fee to be paid. 
Mrs S complained to WFAC about their success fee, saying that she thought they were no 
longer representing her, and their success fee wasnt justified. WFAC said it was because of 
their involvement with the claim that lender S had become aware of her concerns. In 
recognition of Mrs S input, WFAC offered to reduce the success fee applied from 33% to 
24% (inclusive of VAT). 
The investigator found that WFAC had acted fairly as they were still representing Mrs S at 
the time lender S decided the claim in Mrs S favour. Mrs S rejected this saying that shed 
dealt with lender S herself, and hadnt acknowledged or returned any new LOAs for WFAC. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs S. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending WFAC do anything in settlement of this complaint.  Mrs S says I did not work more than 16 hours. I did give them this valuable information from 
the start. They acknowledge the claim was unsuccessful and closed by [lender S]. WFAC 
sent lender S all the information Mrs S had provided about her circumstances, including a 
copy of the PPIQ. Only lender S was in a position to say whether the information provided 
was enough. The response from lender S did highlight that Mrs S should contact them if she 
had any further evidence in support of the number of hours she worked.
Mrs S says she spoke to a case handler at WFAC around March 2018, and was told there 
was nothing more they could do with her claims. She says she was also told she could 
pursue them herself. WFAC no longer have call recordings from this time, because of the 
amount of time thats passed. 
I have seen that WFAC continued to request information from Mrs S after March 2018. Mrs 
S says she didnt respond to these contacts as she understood WFAC were no longer 
representing her. Although I dont doubt what Mrs S has explained about her understanding 
of the contract with WFAC being cancelled in March 2018, the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
support this. 
Theres no dispute that it was the additional evidence provided by Mrs S which led to the 
change in outcome in lender S agreeing to pay compensation. On balance I think its fair to 
say that if WFAC had been provided with this evidence from the outset, lender S wouldve 
likely considered the claim differently, and WFACs success fee wouldve become payable in 
line with the terms and conditions agreed to by Mrs S. 
Mrs S says she did all the hard work, and dealt with lender S directly. I dont doubt that Mrs 
S communicated with lender S directly. But WFAC had been authorised to deal with the 
claim on Mrs S behalf. I cant say that the agreement with WFAC had been cancelled, and 
was no longer effective. Lender S sent WFAC a copy of their offer letter, confirming WFACs 
authority over the claim.  
The evidence shows that Mrs S instructed WFAC to make PPI claims against lender S. 
Although Mrs S provided lender S with additional evidence, this happened only because 
WFAC completed work on the claim, which led to lender S becoming aware of Mrs S 
concerns. Theres no doubt Mrs S dealt with lender S directly. But her agreement with 
WFAC was still valid at the time. Because of this, I think its fair that WFAC charge their 
success fee for the compensation paid by lender S. WFAC agreed to reduce their fee from 
33% to 24% (inclusive of VAT). Its for Mrs S to decide if she accepts this.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman