DRN-3734008
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (Aioi) declined his claim and 
avoided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Aioi over the telephone in August 2021. 
Following a collision Mr M put in a claim but Aioi voided the policy with a nil refund.
Aioi said hed answered the question it asked about any unspent criminal convictions 
incorrectly at the point of sale. And it considered this to be a deliberate qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to void the policy with a nil refund of premiums.
 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think Aioi needed to take 
any further action as they hadnt treated him unfairly.
 
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aioi thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose an unspent criminal conviction at the point of sale. 
Ive listened to the call where Mr M was asked if he had ever had his license taken away, 
been disqualified from driving or have any unspent criminal convictions. Mr M asked how 
much does that one affect it the agent then asked in response the disqualified from driving 
one or unspent criminal convictions Mr M confirms disqualified from driving.
I think the question asked was clear and Mr M at this point could have addressed both 
situations but chose to specifically disclose about the disqualification, so I dont think he took 
reasonable care in answering the question.
Ive thought about whether the misrepresentation has made a difference. Aioi have provided 
evidence, a screenshot of the sales process and the outcome should that question be 
answered yes. It shows that had Mr M disclosed his unspent criminal conviction, they 
wouldnt have provided cover, so I think it does make a difference here. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aioi has said Mr Ms misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and I dont think theyve 
been unfair here. I say this because he had the option, when seeking clarity on the question, 
to disclose both but instead chose not to disclose any information about his unspent criminal 
conviction focussing solely on the disqualifications. 
Ive seen evidence that supports Aioi saying that Mr M did have an unspent criminal 
conviction. I highlighted the conviction to Mr M and asked him to confirm this was the case. 
Mr M confirmed the criminal conviction and explained he hadnt declared it as he didnt 
understand the question. He thought it was asking about a driving conviction and not a 
criminal conviction.
I can understand why Mr M may have thought this as he was after all purchasing motor 
insurance. However, Aioi asked a series of questions, the first question asked was have you 
had any accidents, claims or losses in the last five years regardless of blame or claim, Mr M 
answered No. The next question was have you had any motoring convictions, fixed 
penalties endorsement on the license in the last five years Mr M answered No. The last 
question asked was have you ever had your license taken away, disqualified from driving or 
any unspent criminal convictions. Mr M then asked how much that affected it and as 
explained above the agent repeated the options.
  
Mr M was asked about both motoring convictions and unspent criminal convictions. If he was 
unsure of the question, he could have asked for further clarity as he did in relation to 
disqualifications. I note that following the purchase of the policy, a statement of insurance 
was sent to Mr M which also outlined these questions and the answers Mr M provided at the 
time of the sale. If Mr M was unsure, this was another opportunity for him to have checked 
with Aioi what the question was asking. Given this and the clarity of the question asked I 
dont think Aioi have been unfair here. 
Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as reckless if not deliberate. Ive 
looked at the actions Aioi can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this situation they can 
avoid the policy without refunding premiums, so the actions theyve taken are in line with 
whats expected of them in this situation. In light of this, Aioi havent treated Mr M unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman