DRN-2962641
The complaint
Mr J and Miss S are unhappy Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim they made
on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J and Miss S have a travel insurance policy with gadget cover extension that is 
underwritten by IPA. If a gadget is lost, stolen or accidently damaged, the policy can provide 
cover for a repair or replacement device.
In January 2020 Mr J and Miss S were travelling abroad. They left their possessions in their
locked room whilst they went out for dinner. When they returned, they said they found that 
their room had been burgled and many items, including eight gadgets, had been stolen.
Mr J and Miss S immediately reported the incident to hostel management and the police,
who provided a written report. They then changed their accommodation and contacted their
insurer the next morning to make a claim.
IPA declined the claim because it said Mr J and Miss S were unable to provide evidence of
unauthorised and/or forcible entry into their room, so the claim wasnt covered.
Mr J and Miss S disagreed. They provided evidence including the police report and a
statement from the hostel owner, which they felt was sufficient to support their claim. But
IPAs position remained the same and the claim was still declined.
Mr J and Miss S said IPA had unfairly declined their claim. And they were also unhappy with
the way IPA had handled their claim; they said IPA had been unprofessional and accusatory.
So they raised a complaint.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She
agreed with IPA that Mr J and Miss S had been unable to prove forcible entry into the room,
so said the claim had been fairly declined. And she thought IPA had asked reasonable
questions during the investigation, so didnt think it acted unprofessionally.
Mr J and Miss S didnt think this was a fair outcome based on all the evidence they had
submitted. So the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2021 where I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. And, it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. So Ive carefully
considered if IPA has treated Mr J and Miss S fairly. But I dont think it did here, and Ill
explain why.
IPA has applied the following general exclusion that says it will not pay a claim if:
your gadget was stolen from a motor vehicle or your trip accommodation, and you cannot
provide evidence of unauthorised and/or forcible entry
Mr J and Miss S have been consistent in their submissions that they left their room 
locked. And hadnt authorised anyone to go into their room whilst they were out.
I agree with IPA that there is insufficient evidence to prove forcible entry into Mr J
and Miss S room. However, the exclusion only applies if Mr J and Miss S also cant
show evidence of unauthorised entry into their room. And I think that part of the
exclusion has been overlooked by IPA in this case.
Mr J and Miss S hostel room had a key entry system. So someone at the hostel, with
access to the key, couldve gained unauthorised entry without the need for force. So I
dont think its reasonable for IPA to decline Mr J and Miss S claim because force
wasnt used to access their room.
Ive taken account of the police report and submissions from the hotel who all refer to
another local guest who had been staying at the hostel. The hostel confirmed they
believe this guest to be the culprit of the theft, because he had stayed in Mr J and
Miss Ss room previously and had left whilst Mr J and Miss S had been out to dinner
on the night of the incident.
The police have since informed Mr J and Miss S this guest has now been located
and asked in for police questioning. Although this further supports Mr J and Miss Ss
case that someone gained unauthorised access to their room, Im aware IPA hadnt
had sight of this evidence at the point the claim was declined.
But in any event, I think IPA had enough information from the claimants
submissions, first police report and the hostel to conclude its most likely there had
been unauthorised access to Mr J and Miss S room. So the claim shouldnt have
fallen under the exclusion. Therefore, I think IPA unfairly declined Mr J and Miss S
claim.
Ive also considered Mr J and Miss S concerns about the way IPA handled their
claim  in particular that it acted unprofessionally. Mr J has said that during their
initial call IPA appeared to be helpful and understanding of the situation. And I can
see that IPA kept in regular contact with Mr J and tried to accommodate the time
difference between the two countries when arranging call backs. Ive reviewed the
questions that IPA asked Mr J and Miss S as part of their investigation and although 
its unfortunate IPA were focusing solely on the forced entry aspect of the exclusion, I
can see the hostel said the lock had been forced, so I can understand why IPA was 
following this angle up through further questioning. Im sorry to hear Mr J felt that IPA
had been accusatory in its tone, but insurers are entitled to investigate claims and
seek clarification in order to establish if the claim is valid. So I wont be asking IPA to
pay any compensation.
Mr J and Miss S responded to my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments 
to make.  IPA responded and agreed to arrange settlement up to the pol
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both parties accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments, Isee no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
 For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I
require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following; 
accept Mr J and Miss S claim for the stolen gadgets, subject to the limits and 
excesses of their policy.
pay interest at a gross annual rate of 8% simple (less tax if properly deductible)
from the date of their claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr J and Miss S complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman