 Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 2000. Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr Gs application form for the mortgage. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Mr G to sign if he wanted to take it out. And Mr G has 
signed in the space. Halifax has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form 
which set out the cost and benefit of the PPI, and was signed by Mr G.
Based on this, I think Halifax made it clear to Mr G that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr G chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that it was right for him. And, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
Mr G doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than hes told us he wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his savings to make his 
mortgage repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr G clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave him about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment and Mr Gs property couldve been 
at risk if hed failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the 
policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like 
the PPI would have been useful for Mr G if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr G off taking it 
out.
DRN-1054935My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman