DRN-3225476
The complaint
Mr C complains Brightside Insurance Services Limited trading as Brightside incorrectly sent 
his details to a debt collection agency.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
While our service considers relevant legislation, regulations, and directives, we dont 
have the power to make a finding on whether Brightside breached GDPR. However, 
what we can determine is whether Mr C was treated fairly, and if not, what needs to 
be done to put things right. Brightside doesnt dispute it incorrectly assigned a debt to 
Mr C and sent his details to a debt collection agency. Mr C didnt accept Brightsides 
offer of £50, nor our investigators award of an additional £50. So, Ive had to decide 
whats fair in the circumstances to resolve his complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy explain that Brightside are entitled to share 
Mr Cs information for debt collection purposes. However, the problem in this 
complaint was that Mr C didnt owe a debt.
Ive seen a copy of the debt collection letter sent to Mr C at the end of July. Having 
read this - and placing weight on the fact Mr C didnt owe a debt, I consider most 
reasonable people would have found the situation extremely worrying and 
distressing. Brightside issued their final response, acknowledging their mistake, 
within 11 days of Mr C being sent the debt collection letter. Their quick response 
persuades me they took Mr Cs concerns seriously. However, while I was pleased to 
see Brightside made an offer in recognition of the distress and inconvenience they 
caused, I dont consider their £50 offer goes far enough.
As mentioned above, the content of the letter would have inevitably caused Mr C a 
great deal of concern. He then had to contact Brightside to find out what happened, 
which he shouldnt have had to do. Its for those reasons, I consider a higher award is 
necessary. When deciding what award would be appropriate, I had to place weight 
on the fact Mr C was told he didnt owe a debt, and received a response to his 
complaint, within a short period of time. Ive also seen nothing to suggest Mr C was 
made to pay anything towards this debt he was incorrectly told he owed, nor any 
evidence that Mr Cs credit file was impacted by this mistake. In taking all these 
points into account, I consider an additional £50 is a fair amount to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience Mr C suffered over that 11-day period.
I appreciate Mr C continued to pursue his complaint after receiving Brightsides final 
response, and I acknowledge that would have taken time and effort. However, raising 
a complaint unfortunately comes with inevitable inconvenience. So, I dont consider 
its reasonable to increase the compensation (beyond what Ive awarded) in the 
circumstances. 
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint, albeit not in the way he 
hoped.
Putting things right
Brightside Insurance Services Limited trading as Brightside previously agreed to increase 
their offer by £50 to recognise the level of the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
mistake. This means the total award Mr C should receive is £100.
Brightside has told us they paid Mr C the £100 award while his case was waiting to be 
passed to me. In light of this, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited trading as Brightside.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman