DRN-3552936
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has explained he was due to travel on holiday, within the UK, with his wife and his 
children. But, on the day they were due to travel, Mr W was notified by the NHS that his 
son tested positive for Covid-19 and was informed by the NHS that he needed to self-
isolate.
The following day, Mr W also tested positive, and received the same notification.
Because of this, Mr W and his family were no longer able to take their trip. Mr W tried 
to obtain refunds for the accommodation hed booked. But the accommodation 
providers refused this  noting its terms and conditions didnt allow for a refund in 
those circumstances.
Given this, Mr W made a claim under his travel insurance policy, for his loss.
UKI accepted Mr Ws claim. Mr W said he was initially told he would receive a 
settlement of £409.25. But then later was provided with a settlement of £77.32  which 
was a lot less than he expected to receive.
UKI explained the reason it provided this settlement. It said the accommodation cost 
was £509.25 in total, and there were four people going on the trip, making use of the 
accommodation. As Mr W was the only person the policy insured, Mr W was only 
entitled to a fourth of the costs  minus the £50 excess on the policy. Which was 
£77.32.
Mr W didnt think this was fair. Mr W said the way UKI calculated the settlement was 
unreasonable  because his children, who are minors, couldnt reasonably be expected to 
be responsible for a share of the accommodation costs. And, Mr W said even if he had 
travelled alone, an apartment for him alone would be the same cost as for all four family 
members. So, UKI should be providing a settlement for the total accommodation  minus 
the relevant excess.
UKI considered Mr Ws concerns. But its position remained the same. It said Mr Ws 
insurance policy was clear that it only provided cover for the account holder. And it said the 
terms and conditions of the policy also highlighted it would only pay Mr Ws portions of any 
costs, including if the Mr W had paid for other guests, as a gift.
Mr W remained dissatisfied. And so, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They felt 
UKI had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  which only covered Mr 
W. Whilst the investigator appreciated Mr Ws points in relation to his children, and room 
occupancy, he felt the terms were clear that it would only provide settlement for Mr W. The 
investigator said Mr W would have needed to purchase an optional upgrade, to cover costs 
related to his wife and children.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he wasnt asking UKI for the whole of the loss to be paid. But 
noted that when UKI said that only his portion of the costs would be paid, it hadnt 
defined what was meant by a portion.
Mr W also said he didnt think it was unreasonable for UKI to pay a fourth of the cost for 
his first accommodation  he accepted one room wasnt covered at all there  because his 
wife and child, who werent insured under the policy had one room. And he was only 
covered for his part of the other room.
But in terms of the second accommodation  he noted this was an apartment, with only 
one bedroom, and a sofa-bed for the children. So, whether he was staying there alone, or 
with his family, he would have had to pay for the whole apartment. Mr W also felt it wasnt 
fair to calculate his children as using half of the accommodation cost  given they didnt 
have a bedroom. Mr W said he could accept a settlement equating to half of the cost of 
this apartment  minus a nominal amount to take into account his children staying there.
The investigator told Mr W that he had still paid for an apartment accommodating four 
people. And so, it was reasonable for UKI to have split the cost of all accommodation 
costs in four.
In relation to Mr Ws point that UKI told him hed be paid the total cost of the 
accommodation, minus the excess, the investigator noted that if this had happened, it 
might have wrongly set his expectations for a higher settlement. But the terms and 
conditions set the basis of the agreement with UKI, and so anything UKI had told Mr W 
didnt overrule the policy terms.
Mr W didnt agree and said counting children as adults were against travel and 
leisure industry norms. Because Mr W didnt agree, his complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
UKI added a further point  noting that the policy doesnt specify a difference in 
settlement, dependent on the age of the other travellers. And so, the cost would be 
divided by the travellers. And if the booking price in the particular case had increased 
dependent on number of guests  then there would have been specific information to 
calculated the specific cost for Mr W, as the insured person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably 
decline it. So, Ive thought about whether UKI, acted fairly in the way it settled Mr Ws claim.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws policy  to see what cover it provides. And I can see that Mr Ws policy 
does explain that it covers cancellation claims, where the cancellation is due to illness or the insured person or a travelling companion. And that was the case here. UKI has accepted the 
loss being covered in the policy, under this section. So, I havent needed to consider that any 
further.
Im also aware Mr Ws policy says the following, under the cancellation section:
And I can see that Mr Ws policy explains that it only covers the account holder. This 
being the account holder of the packaged bank account linked to the policy. Mr W hasnt 
disputed he is the only account holder. So, Ive moved forward on that basis.
We wont pay for
()
10) The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling 
with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your portion of any 
costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Given the above, Im aware the policy only covers Mr W, and his portion of the holiday 
costs. This being the case even if he has paid for the other parties attending the trip.
With this in mind, Ive needed to consider whether UKI acted in line with these terms 
and conditions  in the way it settled Mr Ws claim. Ive considered this carefully, and I 
think UKIs settlement, and the way of calculating it was fair and reasonable. I 
appreciate Mr W doesnt agree. And hes said that he would have had to pay at least the 
whole cost of the second accommodation (an apartment), even if he went on holiday 
alone.
But when looking at a claim, an insurer needs to look at what actually happened. Mr W 
wasnt due to go on holiday alone. He booked accommodation for four people  with 
him being one of those four. At a cost of £509.25.
It seems reasonable to me that UKI would consider Mr Ws portion of that accommodation 
to be one fourth of the total amount paid. All four family members were going on holiday to 
use the accommodation, for the same time and duration. The cost of the accommodation 
wasnt per person but was based on the capacity of the apartment necessary to fit those 
people.
Meaning to cater for four people going on holiday, Mr W purchased the apartment that 
was able to fit those people, and paid the cost associated with it. So, I consider it fair that 
UKI split the cost of the total accommodation by the four people using said 
accommodation.
Mr W has raised that there the fact two of those going on this holiday were minors. And 
that in the travel and leisure industry they are usually treated differently. But Im looking at 
an insurance policy, and whether the actions taken are in line with this  and they are. 
And, in any event, I can see the accommodation Mr W booked didnt differentiate between 
adults and children. So, Im satisfied this point doesnt make a difference to the outcome of 
this case.
UKI has provided a settlement of £77.32 (minus the policy excess) to Mr W for 
accommodation. And given this is a fourth of the accommodation cost, Im satisfied 
thats reasonable. The remaining portion would be considered a gift under the policy, 
which isnt covered. So, Im not requiring UKI to do anything differently in this regard.Mr W has said he was initially given the impression the settlement he would receive would 
be £409.25. Ive looked at the call note UKI has provided, from Mr Ws first call to UKI. And 
there is a section of this that notes the proposed settlement as £409.25. So, this does 
suggest Mr W may have been given the impression his claim may be settled, at a higher 
level than was covered. But I agree with our investigator that this doesnt mean UKI should 
pay the higher amount  the terms of the policy are clear on what is covered. And I can see 
UKI did explain this to Mr W shortly after. So, whilst I think it would have been helpful for 
UKI not to give this impression, I dont think it needs to do anything more in this regard.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ws position, and him being left out of pocket, Im 
satisfied UKI acted fairly in the way it settled the claim. So, Im not directing it to do 
pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Therefore, I dont require UK Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman