DRN-3704837
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd unfairly declined her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
What happened
In September 2015, Mrs B, along with her husband, bought membership with a holiday club 
called E1. The total cost of the membership was £10,507 and Mrs B paid £1,051 using her 
NewDay credit card and the rest by bank transfer. The payment did not go to E directly, but 
rather it went to another company called RS.
Under the terms of Mrs Bs membership she was provided with credits from E that could be 
used to purchase services that E provided under its Concierge Lifestyle & Leisure service. 
Those services included discounted holidays, travel benefits and access to tickets for 
entertainment. Mrs B says she did not use any of her credits.
In May 2018, E stopped offering services to its customers. EEL applied to be struck off the 
Companies House register in June 20182 and that happened in October. Further, in March 
2019, the Chief Executive of E (DR) and the Managing Director of E (SR) were sentenced in 
Birmingham Crown Court for various consumer protection offences related to E. Finally, in 
December 2019, RS was declared to be insolvent.
Mrs B, using a professional representative, made a claim under s.75 CCA arguing that E had 
breached its contract with her and the nature and benefits of membership had been 
misrepresented to her. As the purchase had been partly funded by using a credit card, Mrs B 
said NewDay were equally liable for what she said had happened.
NewDay responded to the claim, but said that as Mrs B did not pay E directly using her 
credit card, that meant there was not the right type of arrangement in place to be able to 
make a claim under the CCA.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought NewDay should have 
accepted the claim Mrs B made. He thought that there was the right sort of link between E 
and RS so that the relevant provisions of the CCA applied to this purchase. Our investigator 
thought there was evidence to suggest the contract had been breached and so NewDay was 
jointly liable for this under s.75 CCA and needed to repay the purchase price with interest. 
Mrs B agreed with our investigators view.
NewDay disagreed with the view, again saying that it did not think RS was not sufficiently 
linked to EEL so that s.75 CCA did not apply to the purchase. As NewDay did not accept the 
view, the complaint was been passed to me for a decision.
1 In this decision I will use E to describe a group of related businesses. But Mrs B actually contracted 
with EEL (a registered British company) and paid RS (a registered Spanish company). This is 
important when discussing the arrangements in place at the time of sale.
2 This was the formal process to bring the company to an end.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
In this case, I think it would be helpful to first set out what I think is the relevant law and then 
how that applies to Mrs Bs claims.
The law
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier.
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.187(1) CCA states:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between [the creditor and 
the supplier, one of them and an associate of the others or an associate of one and 
an associate of the others].
s.184 CCA deals with what an associate is under the CCA. It reads:
(1) A person is an associate of an individual is that person is 

(b) a relative of 
(i) the individual, or
(ii) the individuals husband or wife or civil partner, or
(3) A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate 
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of 
one and persons who are his associates, or he and persons who are 
his associates, are controllers of the other; or

(5) In this section relative  means brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, lineal 
ancestor or lineal descendant, references to a husband or wife include a former 
husband or wife and a reputed husband or wife, and references to a civil partner 
include a former civil partner and a reputed civil partner and for the purposes of this 
subsection a relationship shall be established as if any illegitimate child, step-child or 
adopted child of a person were the legitimate child of the relationship in question.
Finally, controller is defined in s.189 CCA as:
controller, in relation to a body corporate, means a person 
(a) in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of the 
body corporate or of another body corporate which is its controller (or any 
of them) are accustomed to act, or
(b) who, either alone or with any associate or associates, is entitled to 
exercise, or control the exercise of, one third or more of the voting power 
at any general meeting of the body corporate or of another body corporate 
which is its controller
What arrangement was in place at the time Mrs B took out E membership?
It is not in dispute that Mrs B used a credit card to purchase something and the use of a 
credit card can give rise to a claim under s.75 CCA.
Mrs B (along with her husband) entered into an agreement with EEL and it provided a 
subscription to EE at Diamond level. So the services provided to E members were to be 
provided by the company EEL.
However, the payment was not made to EEL and Mrs Bs credit card statement shows it 
went to RS. I cannot see that Mrs B entered into any contractual relationship with RS, so I 
must consider the arrangements between RS and EEL. Having considered the law as set 
out above, I think RS and EEL were associates, and so the right arrangements were in 
place for Mrs B to make a claim under s.75 CCA. I will explain why.
The sole director of EEL was SR.
RS was incorporated in Spain in 2007. DR was appointed as Apoderado at that stage. 
Several different appointments and resignations are recorded, but in November 2011, DR 
and another person called DV were both appointed as Apo Sol. And in June 2012, DV was 
appointed as Administrador Unico.
It seems to me that the different terms were likely to be Administrador Unico meaning sole 
director and administradores solidarios meaning joint and several directors. But I make no 
firm finding on that point, as I do not think I need to.Here SR is DRs step-daughter, so they are relatives, and therefore associates, for the 
purposes of s.184 CCA. As sole director, SR was a controller of EEL under part (b) of the 
definition of controller in s.189 CCA.
Based on what I have seen, I am not sure whether DR was a controller of RS under part (b) 
of the definition of controller in s.189 CCA, however I think he was a controller of RS under 
part (a). Under part (a) of the definition, a controller is not simply a registered director of a 
company, but also someone who can direct or instruct a companys directors to act. This is a 
question of fact.
DR described himself as the CEO of E. In March 2019 he and his step-daughter, SR, were 
sentenced for consumer protection offences at Birmingham Crown Court. The sentencing 
remarks include the following:
[SR[ and [DR], you pleaded guilty to consumer protection offences in respect of your 
roles as Chief Executive in your case [DR], and as Managing Director [SR], of [E] 
Group Limited.
It was through your efforts and others that the company went to considerable efforts 
to try and circumvent regulations which were intended to protect the clients or 
consumers, and you were seeking to avoid the need to engage in cancellation rights. 
So long as the document was signed by the customer or client, by any sales tactics, 
the money could be demanded. By your plea [DR}, and by my findings [SR], I find 
that that was done with your consent.
Your basis of plea [DR] was put on a basis which was not acceptable to the Crown 
initially but before the case was called on in December for the trial of the issue to 
take place you accepted that as far as your involvement was concerned, the basis of 
your plea was on the understanding that in relation to all matters the actions were 
taken with your knowledge and consent.
Customers' cards were used to make payments. The payments were made to a 
separate corporate entity, that was [RS] in Tenerife. This was done deliberately to 
avoid bank card fees, and customers indicated in the course of their individual 
transactions in some cases that they were surprised and concerned to find that their 
payments were being taken in that way.
[EEL] was one of a group of companies that traded under an umbrella of the [E] 
Group. One of the other companies in the group was [RS] which was operated out of 
Spain or Tenerife. You [DR] were the Chief Executive Officer of the group, but over 
the period from 2012 to 2018 you were directly involved in the management in 
addition of [EEL].
It was plain that DR was a controller of RS, no matter who its registered officers were. The 
sentencing judge found as fact that he was the chief executive officer of the group that 
included that business, so I think it more likely than not that any directors of RS would have 
been accustomed to act after his directions or instructions.
The judge also found that DR was directly involved in the management of EEL between 
2012 and 2018, so for the same reasons he is likely to have been a controller of EEL too in 
addition to being related to a controller of EEL. It follows I think the two body corporates, 
EEL and RS, were associated under s.184(3)(a) CCA and there were the requisite 
arrangements in place for a s.75 CCA claim to be made.
In response to our investigators view, NewDay argued that there is a Spanish judgment that held Apoderados cannot be considered to be company directors as they have no real 
control over the management of the company and are not to be held responsible if the 
company fails. However, when considering s.189 CCA, there are two definitions of 
controller for the purposes of the CCA. One part is a question of law (part (b)) and one part 
is a question of fact (part (a)). I make no finding under part (b) as I cannot determine the 
precise legal effect of DRs status within RS, whether Apoderado or Apo Sol. However, I 
am satisfied that, under part (a), DR was a person in accordance with whose directions or 
instructions the directors of the body corporate3 or of another body corporate which is its 
controller (or any of them) are accustomed to act. I say that as it was found by a judge that 
DR was the Chief Executive of the E Group and that one of the companies within that group 
was RS. I think it is plain that the person or persons with legal control of RS would have 
been accustomed to act in accordance with the directions of instructions of DR, the person in 
control of the whole E Group and sentenced for criminal activities arising out of RS 
activities. So I disagree with NewDay as I do not think the issue is determined solely by DRs 
legal status within RS.
Was there a breach of contract?
Once E stopped offering its services to its customers, Mrs B was unable to use any of her 
points to purchase services. I have not seen that E (or any other business) had been able 
to provide anything to her under the agreement, so I think it is plain the contract was 
breached when Mrs B was not able to access any benefits of the E membership that she 
paid for.
I also think, had NewDay properly assessed Mrs Bs claim, it would have said a breach of 
contract had taken place.
What does NewDay need to do?
Under s.75 CCA, NewDay is jointly liable for any damages that follow the breach of contract.
Mrs B has provided a signed statement that she was unable to use any of the credits she 
bought before E went under. As she is no longer able to make use of these credits, I think 
she had lost everything that she paid for membership.
So I direct NewDay to pay Mrs B £10,507 in compensation, with interest. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mrs B says that E made statements to her that turned out to be untrue and induced her to 
take out membership. A lot of the allegations are around the availability or otherwise of 
discounts and I had not seen any evidence of what discounts were actually available to her. 
So, on the face of it, I do not think there is sufficient evidence to suggest a misrepresentation 
took place. But I make no firm finding on that, as I think the claim for breach of contract is 
made out and the compensation for that is adequate to resolve the complaint.
Putting things right
I direct NewDay to pay Mrs B £10,507 in compensation. It should also add interest on this 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple.4 This interest is compensatory, so it is designed to 
compensate a consumer for the time they are out of pocket. Given that, I think the interest 
should run from the date of breach to the date of settlement, so interest is paid. E stopped 
3 Here RS
4 NewDay must, by law, take tax from this. But it should provide Mrs B a certificate showing how much 
tax has been paid if she asks for one.offering services in May 2018, so NewDay should assume the date of breach was 1 May 
2018.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against NewDay Ltd and direct it pay compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman