DRN-1998936
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) mishandled his buildings insurance 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S wants Esure to reimburse the cost of his repairs but does not want any claim to 
be recorded. However, it is important for an insurer to record claims it is indemnifying 
so as to ensure an accurate claims history (to prevent a policyholder from claiming 
twice for the same insured peril, for example) as well as to provide an overview of the 
risk a particular policyholder presents to an insurer. So, if an insurer indemnifies a 
claim  as Esure has offered to do here  it is entitled to record it.
I appreciate Mr S is concerned about his premiums increasing if a claim is recorded. 
But that is something all policyholders have to weigh up when deciding whether it is 
worth making a claim on their insurance, and is not a valid reason for Esure to have 
to pay the claim without recording it.
Mr S called Esure to report his broken sink, but the way he described the damage at 
first made it sound like it had been caused by wear and tear, such that further 
inspection of the damage was necessary to see if the claim was actually covered. But 
it appears Mr S terminated the call before it was concluded, which prevented the 
claim from being properly registered and progressed. However, Im satisfied that 
Esure were willing to help Mr S, and that it also set out the next steps of making a 
claim if thats how he wanted to proceed. They have also offered to pay the claim  
along with waiving the excess  despite receiving varied descriptions about how the 
damage happened. So, I cannot say the business have treated him unfairly in these 
circumstances, and Im satisfied there is no fair and reasonable basis in which Esure 
ought to cover the costs of the damage without Mr S having to make a claim on the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman