DRN-3240274
The complaint
Mr C complains Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) provided him with a car that he believes 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr C entered into a 49 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
cash price of the car was £19,010 and it had covered around 2,800 miles. Mr C was required 
to pay instalments of £238 per month followed by an optional final payment of £8,447.
When Mr C took collection of the car, the dealership changed the battery. Thereafter on at 
least three separate occasions, Mr C reported issues with the battery  April, June, August 
2020. He said the battery was draining excessively meaning the car was functioning or not 
working as it should.
He complained to Black Horse in August 2020 and due to the ongoing issues, he arranged 
for two independent inspections. The first inspection in October 2020 found a number of fault 
codes including some relating to the battery. The second inspection in November 2020 
found that there were historic fault codes which hadnt been cleared when the car was 
previously inspected. Having cleared them, the engineer found the car was working as it 
should be. It concluded the reasons for the issues with the battery couldve been as a result 
of the historic fault codes not being cleared, if the car had received software updates or if the 
car hadnt been adequately used to maintain the batterys voltage. 
Black Horse considered the two inspection reports and said the issue with the battery was 
because Mr C hadnt covered the recommended mileage of the car, they noted he had only 
travelled around 1,544 miles in six months. They said the battery had discharged over time 
and this had impacted other functions such as the windows. However as a gesture of 
goodwill and without admission of liability, they agreed to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the 
two independent inspections (£720) and a breakdown call-out (£71.25) plus pay 8% simple 
interest.
Mr C asked our service to investigate. Our investigator recommended the case was partially 
upheld. They believed Black Horse agreeing to cover the above costs were fair but given the 
trouble and upset caused including multiple trips to the dealership, they should also pay 
£300 compensation. Black Horse agreed but Mr C didnt believe this was enough given the 
worry and upset this situation has caused him and the impact on his health. Mr C has told 
our service that he has since sold the car and acquired another one.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Black Horse was the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Mr C was supplied with a used car that was around 12 months old and had 
travelled around 2,800 miles. Given the low mileage and the age of the car, I consider this 
car to be relatively new. So it would be reasonable to expect the quality of it to be higher 
than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for a significant amount of 
time.
Mr C said at the time of acquiring the car, there appeared to be an issue with the battery and 
the dealership agreed to fix it before he took delivery of the car. Based on the evidence, I 
can see the dealership fitted the car with a new battery on 31 January 2020 which was just 
before Mr C took possession of it. However Mr C reported in April and in June 2020 that the 
battery was draining excessively and its impacting the use of the car. Having reviewed the 
job card in June 2020, I can see the battery was recharged by the dealership. At that point, 
the car had travelled around 1,170 miles while in Mr Cs possession.
Ive carefully considered the two independent inspection reports which were arranged by Mr 
C. The first one shows fault codes including some related to the battery and the second one 
also confirmed there were historic fault codes. It comments when the battery was changed 
previously, the correct procedure wouldve been to check for any codes, clear them and 
check they havent returned but this hadnt been done. It also said the fault could be due to 
the car not being adequately used to maintain the voltage. This report doesnt give a definite 
answer as to what was causing the drainage of the battery. However I note once the 
engineer cleared these historic faults, they confirmed they were no longer present and the 
car was functioning without issue. 
Having considered these reports, Black Horse has found the issue was due to Mr C not 
driving the car often. Theyve commented he hasnt covered the recommended mileage but I 
note they havent provided an indication as to what mileage that is. Mr C accepts the car 
wasnt used much because there was a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic 
and from my understanding, he was shielding due to his health. Nevertheless its clear from 
the reports the car had been used during that time as it had travelled over 1,000 miles. I can 
also understand given this ongoing issue with the battery why Mr C was reluctant to use the 
car as he was losing confidence in it. 
While I agree if a car isnt used or only used for short journeys this could impact a cars 
battery and in turn other functions, I dont think a reasonable person would expect after 
having had a car for what I consider to be a short period of time, to experience such issues 
with the battery. Especially as the battery was replaced when it was supplied, meaning it 
was new. Ive also taken into account Mr Cs comments that once the historic fault codes 
were cleared by the engineer during the second inspection, he didnt experience any further 
issues with the battery. Taking all of the above into account, I think its more likely than not the fault with the battery 
was present and/or developing at the point of supply meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Meaning there was a breach of contract.
 
Where this happens and its outside the initial 30 days of supply, the CRA allows one 
opportunity to repair. Im satisfied this happened in April and June 2020 and these costs 
were covered by warranty. From November 2020, I understand the car started working as it 
should so on that basis, I dont believe it would be fair to say Black Horse should allow the 
rejection of the car meaning I wont be asking them to refund the deposit or the contractual 
payments as Mr C requested. Moreover, the car has since been sold and the agreement has 
presumably come to an end. 
That said, Im satisfied as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality at supply, Mr C 
has incurred out of pocket expenses that is, the cost for the two inspections and a 
breakdown call-out. Black Horse has already agreed to refund these costs but theyve done 
so without admission of liability but for the reasons explained above I find there was a 
breach of contract. So had they not already agreed to cover these costs, I wouldve asked 
them to do so. I know Mr C also believes he should receive compensation as a result of 
having to sell this car and acquire a new one. However as the car was working as it should 
by November 2020 as confirmed by Mr C, I find it was his decision to sell the car therefore I 
dont believe it would be fair to say Black Horse should pay compensation for this.
Lastly Ive carefully thought about the impact this situation has had on Mr C including 
multiple trips to the dealership and having to arrange independent inspections. Im also sorry 
to hear  during this time he experienced ill health and he needed the car to attend medical 
appointments. I empathise with Mr C as I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult period for 
him. Additionally, despite Mr C raising this complaint to Black Horse in August 2020, their 
final response wasnt sent until March 2021. I believe they shouldve concluded their 
investigation sooner and by not doing so it has caused Mr C further worry as can be seen by 
his level of communication with Black Horse. Overall, I agree with the investigator that Black 
Horse should pay £300 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, Black Horse Limited should:
- Reimburse Mr C for the cost of the two inspection reports and the breakdown call-out 
plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement (if not paid already);
- Pay £300 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused. 
*If Black Horse Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman