DRN-2781773
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
her request for assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 6 April 2017, Miss O was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for £15,380 over 48 months; with monthly repayments of 
£210.99. There was also a final optional payment of £8,193.75 if Miss O wanted to keep the 
car at the end of the agreement.
Miss O called VWFS on 19 March 2020 to ask what support was available to people whod 
lost their income due to Covid-19. At that time, VWFS referred her to their website for further 
information. On 3 April 2020 Miss O again contacted VWFS about what support was 
available  specifically payment holidays. VWFS told her they could only currently offer 
payment plans or breathing space, and they asked her to complete a payment difficulty form. 
Miss O emailed VWFS on 7 April 2020, explaining that shed lost her income because of 
Covid-19. She also said that she wasnt happy with how things had been dealt with so far, 
and that shed struggled to contact VWFS by phone. 
Miss O completed and sent the financial difficulties form to VWFS on 8 April 2020, asking for 
a break from my lease payments or a review of my monthly payments. She also said that 
she wanted to keep the car and would like to hear about any other options available. In an 
automatic reply the same day, VWFS said that, due to an increase in customer contact, it 
was taking them longer than normal to respond and they were prioritising vulnerable 
customers.
On 18 April 2020 VWFS said they could offer a payment plan or 60 days breathing space 
(where they wouldnt contact Miss O). On 27 April 2020, VWFS told Miss O they could now 
also offer her a payment deferral, also known as a payment holiday, and they provided her 
with an online link so she could make an application for this. Miss O applied for the payment 
deferral on 3 May 2020, and it was approved on 16 June 2020. VWFS sent Miss O the 
payment deferral paperwork on 25 June 2020 and she accepted this the following day. The 
payment deferral was backdated and ran from May to July 2020.
Miss O wasnt happy that the payment deferral meant her monthly payments would increase 
to £224.24 and the remaining term would increase by three months. She thought it would be 
either a payment increase, or a term extension, but not both. Miss O also said she felt 
rushed into taking the payment deferral and she felt she was always having to chase VWFS 
for information. 
VWFS apologised for the time it took them to deal with the payment deferral, which they say 
was caused by increased customer contact at a time of reduced staffing levels. But they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong by increasing the payment and term at the end of the 
payment deferral period. Miss O wasnt happy with VWFSs response, so she brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said VWFS had tried to help Miss O when she first contacted them about 
her payment difficulties, and theyd given her the option of a payment deferral as soon as 
this was available. He also thought theyd given Miss O enough information so she could 
make an informed decision on whether to proceed with the payment deferral or not. 
The investigator also didnt think that the payment deferral terms were unreasonable, as they 
were in line with the guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And he 
thought VWFS had acted reasonably by extending the term by three months to limit the 
impact of payment increase at the end of the payment deferral term. So he didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Miss O didnt agree with the investigator. She said she was given the payment deferral 
before being told the terms of it and didnt find out what the terms were until the payment 
deferral had been in place for two months, which she thought was unfair. And she thought 
that the lack of information from VWFS meant that she didnt know what other options were 
available and whether these were viable. She also thought that the investigator had 
underestimated the undue stress and anxiety this caused especially during a pandemic.
Because Miss O didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss O was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The FCA issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 April 2020, about 
customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This guidance 
says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interest to do so. And the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.4 states 
that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
The basic facts of this complaint arent in dispute. Miss O asked VWFS for assistance when 
her income changed because of Covid-19, and she experienced difficulties contacting them 
when she wanted to discuss her account. VWFS have acknowledged they couldve done 
better, and theyve apologised for the contact difficulties Miss O had. 
When Miss O applied for the payment deferral on 3 May 2020, she didnt know what the 
terms of this would be. But, from the paperwork she completed, VWFS had made it clear 
that hers payment would be increased as a result.Miss O wasnt able to make the payments for May or June 2020. She emailed VWFS on 23 
June 2020, asking what her options were going forward, now that my situation has changed 
drastically. Ive seen the contact note for a call that took place on 26 June 2020, where 
VWFS discussed the payment deferral with Miss O, as well as her options to settle the 
agreement in full, voluntarily terminate the agreement, or hand back then car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Miss O was made aware of her options before she 
accepted the payment deferral on 26 June 2020. I appreciate she says she wasnt told the 
terms of the payment deferral until late June 2020, but she was under no obligation to accept 
these. As well as her options to repay the agreement or voluntarily surrender the car, as 
explained in the phone call of 23 June 2020; Miss O could also have chosen not to accept 
the payment deferral and have her agreement go into arrears, with the payments shed 
missed in May and June 2020 recorded as such on her credit file.
So, while I accept that Miss O mayve felt that she didnt have many viable options because 
of the situation she found herself in, Im satisfied that she was given sufficient information to 
make an informed choice, and I havent seen anything to show that she was rushed into 
making a decision.
The agreement was originally due to finish in April 2021, and any deferred payments would 
usually have to be paid within the original term. VWFS were also entitled to continue to 
charge interest on the outstanding balance while the payment deferral was in place. And this 
additional interest would also need to be repaid over the remaining original term. Once the 
payment deferral had ended, Miss O would only have nine payments remaining. And this 
wouldve meant an increase in her payments in the region of £80 to £90 a month.
Because of this, VWFS extended the term by three months so as to lessen the impact of the 
payment increase. And Miss Os payments only increased by £13.25 a month. Given the 
circumstances, I dont think that VWFS acted unreasonably by doing this. And I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
Turning to Miss Os difficulties in contacting VWFS, this was an unprecedented situation. 
Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS wouldve 
needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, 
VWFS experienced a large increase in customer contacts. So, while I appreciate how 
frustrating this was for Miss O, I dont think that VWFS did anything wrong because they 
were receiving a very high volume of customer contact at a time when their normal 
operations were disrupted due to circumstances outside of their control.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman