DRN-3240703
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave her two running account credit facilities that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 14 February 2019, Mrs C applied for a credit account with Shop Direct trading as very. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £400. The credit limit was never increased. 
On 16 February 2019, Mrs C applied for a credit account with Shop Direct trading as 
Littlewoods. She was given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was not 
increased above that initial amount.  
On 21 February 2019 both accounts were closed for further orders. Eventually both 
accounts entered Token Payment Plans and more recently the debts were sold to a third 
party.  
Mrs C complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been opened for 
her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a better effort 
to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mrs Cs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mrs C has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Shop Direct has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency and the management of the accounts to determine 
the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Mrs C with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limits on the two 
accounts were unaffordable. 
I say this because whilst Mrs Cs income was from benefits, it was regular income. Ive also 
noted that the initial credit limits were modest and the maximum monthly payments would 
have been relatively modest. And whilst Ive noted the bankruptcy that Mrs C told us about 
in May 2017, Ive also noted that this was fully discharged in May 2018. The bankruptcy 
wouldnt in itself make the lending of further credit automatically unreasonable and the 
satisfied bankruptcy was some time before these accounts were opened.
Mrs C thinks it a sign of failure that the accounts were closed to new credit soon after the 
credit was established. This could also be seen as Shop Direct reacting to a change in Mrs 
Cs credit score and taking reasonable actions. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs C was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mrs C was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I have also noted the actions that have been taken by Shop Direct on these accounts after 
the credit was provided. They closed the accounts for new purchases, they agreed to 
reduced payment plans and held off interest payments and eventually they sold the debt to 
a third party. I think the evidence suggests Shop Direct have attempted to treat Mrs C fairly. 
In any event, I have seen insufficient evidence that they have been unreasonable in the 
actions they have taken on these two accounts to date. 
I know that Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mrs C to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman