DRN-3610987
The complaint
Ms R complains about the way that Advantage Finance Limited has dealt with a hire 
purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to her.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Ms R under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance 
in November 2011. Advantage Finance says that Ms R voluntarily terminated the agreement 
in April 2012 so the car was collected from her and sold at auction. It also says that it was 
contacted by Ms Rs debt management company in May 2012 which offered a monthly 
payment of £44.01 but it then agreed to accept lower payments. It says that the final 
payment that it received from Ms R was in November 2020 and that the debt management 
company told it that Ms Rs case with it was closed. It says that it then received a letter from 
Ms R disputing the outstanding balance that she owed to it. 
It sent her a letter in April 2021 which said that the outstanding balance of her account was 
£3,115.69. Ms R complained to it in August 2021 about the agreement not being signed by 
the dealer and the insurance options that were included in the agreement. Advantage 
Finance sent her a copy of the agreement which shed signed but Ms R wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service. She says that she disputes the amount that she 
owes to it, there was no signed agreement for the car to be supplied to her, and she was told 
that her debt had been written-off. 
Our investigator initially didnt recommend that Ms Rs complaint should be upheld but 
Advantage Finance then said that the outstanding balance on Ms Rs account was 
£1,158.27 and it offered to write-off that amount so she would no longer owe any money to 
it. Although our investigator said that Ms R had been given some unclear and inaccurate 
information, she thought that Advantage Finances offer was fair. She said that Ms R had 
also complained about the validity of the agreement and that she was mis-sold add-ons and 
insurance but as the agreement was made in November 2011 this service couldnt consider 
those parts of her complaint.
Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary and amongst other things, that:
she doesnt agree that Advantage Finances offer is fair as she was misled about the 
agreement and shes entitled to a full refund;
she didnt agree to the terms of the agreement as she didnt sign the terms and 
conditions;
she was advised to voluntarily terminate the agreement and, if 50% of the price has 
been paid, the agreement can be cancelled; and
she had no communication from Advantage Finance until she made a complaint to it 
last year 2021 and she tried to get information from it about the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance has provided a copy of the hire purchase agreement that was signed by 
Ms R in November 2011. Ms R says that there was no signed agreement but the copy of the 
agreement that Advantage Finance has provided includes her signature and its also been 
signed by Advantage Finance. It also clearly shows the optional insurance products that 
Ms R had selected. The car was supplied to her on that basis and she made the monthly 
payment of £216.02 that was shown on the agreement as the combined payment for the car 
and the insurances from November 2011 to January 2012.
She signed the agreement in November 2011 but Ive seen no evidence to show that she 
complained to Advantage Finance about the agreement not having been signed until August 
2021  more than nine years later  and she didnt complain about it to this service until 
September 2021. Our investigator has set out the dispute resolution rules for considering 
complaints that are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Those rules says 
that this service cant normally consider a complaint if its referred to us more than: six years 
after the event complained of; or (if later) three years from the date on which the complainant 
became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for 
complaint.
Ms R complained to this service more than six years after she entered into the agreement. I 
consider that she ought to have been aware that she had cause for complaint about the 
agreement not being signed and the options included under the agreement no later than 
when she voluntarily terminated the agreement in April 2012. That was more than three 
years before she complained to this service so I agree with our investigator that this service 
cant consider those parts of her complaint.
The agreement says: you have the right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write 
to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the 
goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is £3,342.68.
Advantage Finance wrote to Ms R in March 2012 and said: Upon termination of the  
agreement you will need to pay  £3,054 03. That letter also said: If you purchased any 
insurance products  at the same time as your motor finance, these will remain payable  
In order to settle the insurance element of your agreement and claim any rebate to which 
you are entitled you may also choose to pay the amount set out below. This will also ensure 
that you have no further liability under the insurance element of the contract  and it said 
that the amount required to do that was £3,649.24, less a rebate £1,243.55 so a total of 
£2,405 69.
Advantage Finance says that Ms R voluntarily terminated the agreement in April 2012 so the 
car was collected from her and sold at auction and that the net sale proceeds of £1,507 were 
applied to her account. Ms R contacted Advantage Finance in April 2021 but it provided her 
with some incorrect and inaccurate about her account and I can understand the distress and 
inconvenience that that caused her. It now says that the outstanding balance of her account 
is £1,158.27 and it has offered to write-off that amount so she has to make no further 
payments to it.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the outstanding balance of 
£1,158.27 is incorrect but I consider that Advantage Finances offer to write-off that amount 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I see no basis on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Advantage Finance to refund to Ms R any of the payments that shes made under the agreement. I consider that its offer is also fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Ms R has been caused.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage Finance to write-off the outstanding 
balance of Ms Rs account and to close the account. I sympathise with Ms R for the issues 
that shes experienced but I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Advantage Finance to refund any payments to her, to pay her any compensation or 
to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint in part and I order Advantage Finance Limited 
to write-off the outstanding balance of her account and to close her account.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman