DRN-3934505
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund over £16,000 
she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms D fell victim to a scam after she was contacted by a 
fraudulent broker in December 2021. The scammer claimed that funds Ms D had lost in a 
previous scam were held in another account, and that she could release this money by 
paying certain fees. 
Ms D made several payments via open banking from her Halifax account to her 
cryptocurrency wallet with Paxful, where her funds were subsequently transferred to the 
scammers cryptocurrency wallet via Blockchain. She later discovered she had been the 
victim of a scam and reported the fraud to Halifax, who refused to refund the money she lost 
as shed authorised the payments. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that the fourth payment Ms D made to 
the scammer was suspicious and that Halifax ought to have questioned her about it before 
releasing the payment. If it had done so, she thought the scam could have been unravelled 
and any further loss prevented. However, the investigator recommended that Halifax only 
refund 50% of this loss in light of Ms Ds own contributory negligence, as well as deducting a 
£1,816 credit received from the scammer that was paid into her account from Blockchain on 
26 January 2022.
Halifax accepted the investigators outcome and proposed settlement, but Ms D disagreed. 
She didnt think it was fair that she should be held jointly liable for her loss. In terms of the 
credit received, she said this hadnt come from the scammer, but that she had transferred 
too much money to Blockchain and so returned any surplus to her Halifax account, which 
was what the £1,816 credit into her account was. As Ms D didnt agree with the redress 
proposed, the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the redress proposed by the investigator is fair for the following 
reasons:
Halifax has accepted that its liable to refund the money Ms D lost from the fourth 
payment onwards, and Im also satisfied this is where it ought to have intervened given it 
was the fourth payment being made on the same day in quick succession, which can 
often be indicative of fraud. In light of Ms Ds account activity, I dont think any of the 
prior payments she made would have appeared particularly unusual, so Im not 
persuaded Halifax would need to refund any of these earlier payments.
It also isnt in dispute that Halifax could have prevented the scam if it had intervened on 
the fourth payment, as this has since been accepted by the bank, so I dont consider it 
necessary to explore this point any further. What remains in dispute here is whether it is 
fair and reasonable for Ms D to be held jointly liable for her loss as a result of her own 
contributory negligence, which Im satisfied she should in these circumstances.
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their actions and 
decisions, and its only fair that we take account of this if it appears that a consumer 
failed to take reasonable course of action that could have either prevented or at least 
mitigated their loss. In this instance, I can see from correspondence with the scammer 
that Ms D had seen negative reviews about the broker online, and seemingly had doubts 
that it wasnt legitimate. But despite having those doubts, and instead of consulting 
further independent sources, she decided to proceed with making the payments after the 
scammer reassured her, knowing there was a risk that she might not get her money 
back. Therefore, Im satisfied that Ms Ds actions contributed to her loss here, such that it 
would be fair and reasonable for her to share liability with Halifax, with a 50% deduction 
in redress being proportionate in the circumstances.
In terms of the credit received from Blockchain, Ms D received a payment of £1,816 on 
26 January 2022. She said that there were issues with her Paxful account, so she was 
guided by the scammer to transfer £2,000 from her Halifax account to Blockchain 
instead, where it was then sent on to the scammer. As a result, she says this meant the 
Paxful transaction was left in the blockchain, and that it was this money she withdrew 
and credited back to her Halifax account. 
Ms D has confirmed that she had not used Blockchain prior to the scam, so we know that 
the credit coming back into her account wouldnt have been from a prior unrelated 
investment. Given this money was paid out of her Halifax account to the cryptocurrency 
platform as part of the scam, and was subsequently credited back to the account from 
Blockchain, this reduces her overall loss, as it is money she has been able to get back. 
As a result, it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to pay back the total value of payments that 
left Ms Ds account as part of the scam, given she was able to recoup some of this. 
Therefore, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Halifax to deduct the £1,816 
credit received into the account from Blockchain from her total loss.
Ive also considered that Halifax is signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), which typically covers faster payments lost to another person as part of a 
scam. However, in this instance, the payments made from Ms Ds Halifax account were 
not made to another person; they were paid to an account in her own name. As such, 
Halifax would be under no obligation to reimburse the payments in line with the Code 
given they were not made to another person. In terms of Halifax recovering the funds 
from the receiving bank, there also would have been very little prospect of this being 
successful given we know the funds were quickly transferred on from Ms Ds crypto 
wallet on to the scammer. So, I dont think there was anything more the bank couldve 
done to recover the funds either. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Ms D, and Im sorry to hear that she had 
been the victim of a cruel scam. But overall, Im satisfied that the redress proposed by the 
investigator and accepted by Halifax is fair, so I wont be asking the bank to pay anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) to:Refund 50% of the payments Ms D lost to the scam from the £2,000 payment made 
on 26 January 2022 onwards, less the £1,816 credit received back from Blockchain.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman