DRN-4288913
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made 
under his home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr M has a home emergency policy underwritten by UKI. He got in touch with it after 
he lost heating and hot water in November 2022.
UKI sent a contractor, who said a gas valve within the boiler had failed and the flue 
was installed incorrectly. UKI said its policy didnt cover the work to the flue and that 
needed to be completed before any other work could be done.
Mr M turned to another company, B, who he paid to carry out work to the flue and 
valve. That successfully restored the boiler to working order. Mr M asked UKI to 
reimburse the £255 hed paid B, plus compensation for the way UKI had handled the 
claim. He said the contractor:
oHadnt correctly identified the cause of the problem.
oWas inexperienced and didnt follow gas safety regulation for faulty boilers.
oDidnt seek advice from the flue manufacturer.
oLeft Mr M without heating or hot water in cold weather.
oUsed his toilet during the Covid pandemic.
UKI said its policy only covered repairs carried out by an authorised repairer  which 
didnt include B. So it didnt agree to reimburse any of Bs costs to Mr M. It offered 
£40 compensation because Mr M hadnt been offered temporary heaters or 
alternative accommodation during the claim, contrary to the policy terms.
During our investigation, UKI made an offer to settle the complaint. It maintained the 
flue problem wasnt covered by the policy but it agreed to pay for the work to the 
valve. As Mr M hadnt provided an itemised invoice, it offered to pay half what Mr M 
had paid plus £150 compensation. Our investigator thought this was fair.
Mr M looked up the price of parts online to estimate the cost of the valve repair. He 
thought that should be used to calculate what UKI should pay. Although it was less 
than he was hoping for, Mr M accepted £150 compensation.
The complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision as an agreement 
couldnt be reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers the failure of the main source of heating, which is defined in the 
policy to include the boiler, other features and the main flueing. It says it will pay for 
an authorised repairer to carry out emergency assistance. An authorised repairer is 
one appointed by UKI. It may also pay for temporary heating or alternative 
accommodation depending on the circumstances.
UKI didnt think the flue problem was covered by the policy because it doesnt cover:
oThe cost of replacement parts from  failure to carry out reasonable 
maintenance in accordance with manufacturers instructions.
oAny defect, damage or failure caused by  faulty workmanship.
The contractors notes say, found flue incorrectly installed, flue has been cut too 
short meaning air intake is sat inside wall, due to this flue hasnt been sealed, I can 
easily move flue around.
Whilst I know Mr M strongly disagrees with the contractor, he hasnt provided any 
comments from a contractor or engineer to challenge what was said. So I dont have 
any professional opinion of similar or greater standing to counter the contractors 
comments about what they found.
As a result, Im satisfied UKI has shown the flue problem was likely caught by at least 
one of the policy terms noted above. And that means it was fairly declined.
Although UKI didnt authorise B to carry out the work to the valve, UKI was prepared 
to carry it out as it was covered by the policy. So I think its fair UKI pays a 
reasonable amount for that work.
We dont know exactly how much that cost as Mr M doesnt have an itemised invoice. 
Thats because he paid B £75 upfront together with £15 a month to make a total of 
£255. This includes the cost of ongoing boiler cover and the flue repair  neither of 
which is covered under the policy or is otherwise UKIs responsibility. I dont think the 
cost of parts Mr M found online is relevant because thats not what he paid B.
As a result, Im satisfied UKIs offer to pay for half of the total cost  £127.50  is 
reasonable and pragmatic in the circumstances.
Mr M seems to have accepted UKIs offer of £150 compensation. This is in addition 
to the £40 it offered previously. If £40 has already been paid, only the remaining 
£150 remains to be paid. Im satisfied a total of £190 compensation is reasonable in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
As above, Im not satisfied the contractor failed to identify the cause of the problem. 
So there was no need for them to contact the manufacturer. And Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest they were inexperienced or otherwise unsuitable for the work, or 
acted unsafely. UKI has shown they issued Mr M a gas warning notice which he 
signed. So I think they made him aware of the risk involved were he to continue to 
use his boiler with a failed valve. At the time of the visit, Covid restrictions had long been lifted, so I dont think it was inappropriate for the contractor to use Mr Ms toilet 
facilities with his agreement.
UKI has acknowledged it should have done more to provide temporary heating or 
alternative accommodation, given the policy cover and the cold time of year when the 
problem happened. And it took UKI a long time to recognise it would be fair to pay for 
the valve repair. So I think its right it offers compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M by these avoidable mistakes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay £127.50 for the claim.
Pay a total of £190 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman