DRN-3620577
The complaint
Mr B complains that it was wrong of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide a loan so he could purchase a holiday club 
membership (the product) without checking if he could afford it - and then fail to accept 
liability for claims he made arising out of the sale.
Ive referred to Mr B alone in this decision because, although the product is in joint names, 
the loan is in Mr Bs sole name and hes the eligible complainant who can bring a complaint 
to this service.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but I will refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr B had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a trial holiday club membership with a supplier (that Ill call C) in 
February 2011. They purchased the rights to reserve up five weeks holiday within a period of 
34 months (until December 2013) for just under £4,000. And, in October 2011, they took out 
an agreement to purchase fractional rights to two weeks in named accommodation in a 
particular resort abroad (the product). 
The product purchase was funded with a fixed sum loan Mr B took out with BPF. The 
product cost about £20,000 and Mr B agreed to pay back about £56,000, (including interest) 
over fifteen years at approximately £300 a month under the loan terms. Mr B feels the 
product was mis-sold and he was treated unfairly so he complained to BPF in November 
2019. His representatives said (in summary):- 
The product was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) under the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and associated regulations, and 
the financing of the product by BPF was unlawful, rendering the loan null and void;
BPF is liable for acts and omissions of the supplier under section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA), Mr B has a like claim against BPF for misrepresentations 
made by the supplier, under section 75 of the CCA, and misrepresentations were 
made about the quality and availability of accommodation and the product being an 
investment, amongst other things;
Some of the terms of the loan agreement are unfair under Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR)  specifically, the interest rate was over 17% 
compared to the Bank of England base rate at the time of 0.5%; 
Mr B was subjected to aggressive practices and coerced into making the purchase 
and taking out the finance; 
BPF breached Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Core Principles 2, 6, 7, 8 and 9 
and the relationship between Mr B and BPF was unfair under section 140A of the 
CCA; and 
Mr Bs claims are not time barred under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA); 
BPF didnt provide a final response within the time it was supposed to so Mr B referred the 
matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. He accepted 
BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or services for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier under section 75 of the CCA. But, he thought the time to 
bring any such claim against the creditor would expire at the same time as any claim against 
the supplier (under the LA) and it was reasonable to take this into account. So, he went on to 
consider relevant time limits under the LA.
The investigator was satisfied that Mr B says the supplier misrepresented the product and he 
wouldnt have bought it but for those misrepresentations. He thought Mr B had six years 
under the LA to bring this sort of claim, such a claim could be made once damage was 
suffered and any damage here would have occurred when Mr B experienced financial loss. 
He concluded that the point of loss for Mr B was when he purchased the holiday club 
membership  it was at that stage he accepted the cost and any potential benefit under the 
contract. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr B may not have known he could raise concerns about 
misrepresentation until later. But, he was satisfied the relevant time limits start to run from 
the date of loss - which may fall earlier than the date Mr B realised something might have 
gone wrong. Consequently he considered Mr B needed to raise his claim under section 75 
no later than October 2017. And, as Mr B didnt complain to BPF until November 2019, this 
claim was probably out of time.
The investigator also considered section 140A of the CCA. This allows the courts to make an 
order under section 140B if it is determined that the relationship between the creditor and 
debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor. Only a court has the power to 
decide that but section 140A is relevant law we need to take into consideration. The 
investigator was satisfied that the LA applies to a section 140A claim. And, given Mr B paid 
back what he owed in March 2012, he would have needed to bring any such claim no later 
than February 2018. Mr B didnt raise his claim with BPF until more than a year after that  in 
November 2019 - and the investigator found its also more than likely time barred under the 
LA.
The investigator said its ultimately a matter for the courts to decide if any claim Mr B may 
have has expired under the LA. He was satisfied however that it looks as if the relevant 
claims here had more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits and he didnt think it was 
unreasonable to take this into account in this situation. He wasnt persuaded that BPF 
should have to accept liability and pay compensation or do anything else and he didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed. His representatives said (in summary):- 
The investigator is wrong about the limitation periods, which havent expired; 
In particular, whilst the loan was paid off in 2012, the relationship between BPF and 
Mr B was still ongoing until October 2017 - when the last management fee was paid 
 so limitation in respect of his section 140A claim would not expire for another six 
years, until 2023; 
Mr B claims the relationship with BPF was unfair because of the terms of the loan 
and the product agreement  which is a related agreement  and things done or not 
done by BPF and the supplier, on BPFs behalf; 
Limitation hasnt expired in respect of claims under sections 75 and 56 either, section 
56 covers any negotiations between Mr B and the supplier, these are deemed to 
have been conducted by the supplier as agent for BPF and Mr B would not have purchased the product without the finance; 
In addition, Mr B only found out that the product is a UCIS when he took specialist 
advice in December 2019 and he couldnt reasonably be expected to know that he 
had cause to complain/claim before that, so the three year time limit under the LA 
didnt expire until December 2022; 
The existence and amount of commission paid by BPF to the supplier was 
concealed, and still hasnt been revealed, which is unfair and a breach of contract 
under section 75; and 
BPF failed to carry out proper affordability checks. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. He thinks the complaint should be 
upheld and he should receive a full refund of all loan instalments, maintenance fees and 
interest and BPF should take over any ongoing liability relating to the product. 
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I issued a provisional 
decision to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they 
wanted to before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I decided provisionally (and why) 
below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of 
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Bs representatives have made very detailed submissions which include reference to 
various regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of 
the law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice 
and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr B that I have 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single point 
thats been raised thats because Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. The rules of our service  
which provides a free alternative to the courts - allow me to do this. 
Mr B brings claims against BPF pursuant to sections 241 and 138D of FSMA and sections 
56, 75 and 140A of the CCA (amongst other things). Our investigator considers any right he 
has to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats right, I think its something BPF 
could reasonably take into account when considering Mr Bs claims. But, I want to make it 
clear at the outset that Im not deciding if any right that Mr B may have to bring a claim has 
expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision, Im considering whether 
BPF should reasonably have accepted liability for Mr Bs claims. 
Was the product an unregulated credit agreement under FSMA? 
If the product was a UCIS, that could mean the credit agreement between Mr B and BPF 
(taken alongside the product it was used to finance) led to an unfair debtor/creditor 
relationship between Mr B and BPF. Although Ive gone on to consider whether Mr B is able 
to bring a claim under section 140A CCA for an unfair debtor/creditor relationship, I think it is 
useful to set out whether I think the product could amount to a UCIS. That is because it has 
been alleged BPF may have breached certain legal provisions by financing a UCIS. In order to be a UCIS, I think this product would have to not only fall within the definition of a 
collective investment scheme (CIS) under FSMA (section 235) but outside of the definition of 
arrangements which do not amount to a collective investment scheme set out in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) Order 2001 (the 
CIS order).
If the Purchase Agreement qualified as a timeshare contract, it cant have given rise to a 
CIS because the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) 
Order 2001 (the 2001 CIS Order) provides in Schedule 1 (Paragraph 13) that arrangements 
dont amount to a CIS if ...the rights or interests of the participants are rights under a 
timeshare contract.... 
Regulation 7 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations) defined a timeshare contract as a contract 
between a trader and a consumer under which the consumer, for consideration, acquires the 
right to use overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation and which has 
a duration of more than one year . 
An important phrase in this definition, in the context of this complaint, is the 
consumer...acquires (the relevant rights to use accommodation). To acquire seems to 
me to have its normal meaning of gaining something or coming into possession of it. And, if 
the Purchase Agreement was a timeshare contract, I think it must have caused Mr and Mrs 
B to have gained or come into possession of rights to use overnight accommodation. 
Looking at the Purchase Agreement, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B paid for the right to use 
overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation (including accommodation 
from a pool of accommodation) under an agreement that had a duration of more than one 
year. That was a right they acquired for the first time when they bought the product in 
question. And, with that being the case, I see no reason why the Purchase Agreement 
wasnt a timeshare contract (such that it wasnt excluded from being a CIS). For the reasons 
set out, Im minded to find the product is a timeshare contract and it is therefore excluded 
from being a CIS which means it cant, by definition, be a UCIS.
Sections 56 and 75 CCA
Broadly speaking section 56 provides that any pre-sale negotiations conducted by the 
supplier in relation to the product purchase financed by the loan BPF provided were 
conducted by the supplier as BPFs agent. And, under section 75, a borrower has an equal 
right to claim against a credit provider and a supplier if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain circumstances.
Amongst other things, section 75 requires a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship to be 
present. I havent considered if this relationship is in place here because Im not minded to 
uphold the complaint for other reasons  as Ill explain below.
Mr B says the supplier made a number of misrepresentations when he agreed to buy the 
product and take out the loan and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 
applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation 
Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable under statute. Im 
satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the date that a cause 
of action accrues.
I think the date on which the cause of action accrued in this case will be the same as the 
date upon which the misrepresentations alleged became actionable  that is the date 
damage is suffered. I say this because Im satisfied that any relevant damage would have been incurred when Mr B purchased the product and took out the loan - in October 2011. 
Amongst other things, it was then he paid for the benefits which he says were 
misrepresented and incurred liability for management fees.
In light of the above, I think Mr B would have needed to bring any misrepresentation claim 
within six years of the date he purchased the product. Im satisfied that more than six years 
had passed since that date before Mr B contacted BPF, in November 2019. I think the period 
within which Mr B had to bring an action for misrepresentation had likely run out by this 
point. And I cant reasonably conclude that BPF should accept responsibility for such claims.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr B had to bring such a claim is six years from 
the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. That is because the claim Mr B brought is an 
action for sums recoverable under statute to which section 9 of the Limitation Act applies, 
not section 8. I have seen an account statement that shows Mr B paid off this debt in early 
2012. His representatives accept the loan was repaid around that time. And Im not 
persuaded the fact that Mr B paid management fees in 2017 means his relationship with 
BPF continued. Ive seen nothing to suggest that any such payment was funded by Mr Bs 
loan from BPF.
On the evidence I have at the moment, Im satisfied the fixed sum loan that BPF provided 
was paid back in February 2012. Ive seen nothing to suggest that BPF provided any further 
lending on this account. And I think this means Mr B needed to bring any claim under section 
140A no later than February 2018. Im satisfied he didnt raise his claim with BPF until 
November 2019. Thats more than six years after time started running and Im minded to find 
any right Mr B had to bring a claim under section 140A had probably expired at that stage. 
So Im not persuaded its unreasonable for BPF to decline Mr Bs section 140A claim.
Was the time Mr B had to bring his claims extended ?
I appreciate Mr B may say he didnt know about the time limits above but Im afraid thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thought 
to section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, 
mistake or concealment are found or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered. 
Im not persuaded that this assists Mr B in the circumstances here for the reasons Ive 
explained below.
As far as I can see, Mr B was aware that he wasnt receiving the services and benefits he 
says he was told would be provided, within a year or so of purchasing the product. He 
reports, for example, (and I paraphrase) that he tried to book a holiday (on their return from 
the trip when they purchased the product) for the following year but he couldnt get the 
holiday he wanted. And he was disappointed to have to accept a smaller apartment with no 
exceptional facilities at a fairly ordinary resort. On balance, I think Mr B probably had enough 
information to realise that misrepresentations might have been made, and start the clock 
running, not long after he purchased the product in October 2011. I consider this information 
would likely have been sufficient to enable Mr B to bring his claims and I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits.
Mr Bs representatives argue that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond February 2012, so the time to bring a claim against BPF did not start to 
run until later. But, section 140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor 
and creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). 
Once Mr B repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and BPF ended. And, as it 
was only the relationship between him and BPF that could be found unfair, limitation started 
to run when the credit agreement ended.
Commission
I have also given some thought to what Mr B says about the payment of commission by BPF 
to the supplier for arranging the loan. His representatives consider BPF should have told Mr 
B about any such commission and its wrong that this wasnt (and still hasnt been) 
disclosed.
BPF told us it doesnt have a record of what, if any, commission was paid to the supplier. 
From evidence Ive seen, I think if any commission was paid (which is not certain) this 
probably didnt exceed 10%. I cant see that BPF breached any duty in making such a 
payment and Im not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of 
any commission paid. As far as Im aware the levels of commission that were normally paid 
in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF should 
have appreciated not telling Mr B about commission risked the debtor-creditor relationship 
being unfair under section 140A.
I should also make it clear that Im not persuaded the product provider was acting as agent 
to Mr B or owed him a fiduciary duty, in this situation. Im satisfied the suppliers role wasnt 
to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation and I dont think it was required to 
disclose that it might have received commission to Mr B.
In light of my provisional findings above, I dont think section 32 extends time for Mr B. But, 
in any event (as Ive said already), if any commission was paid I consider its unlikely to have 
been more than 10%. So, even if Mr B could rely on section 32, Im minded to find it unlikely 
that a court would conclude that commission paid created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
Ive thought about section 14A of the LA as well. This provides for a second period in which 
a claim for negligence can be made. Im not persuaded it takes matters any further here. 
Having considered what happened when Mr B purchased the product and took out the loan 
(including the relevant documentation), I accept there was an obligation to provide sufficient, 
appropriate, and timely information to enable Mr B to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the finance. But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was 
provided that could give rise to a claim to which this section could apply.
Unaffordable lending
In its response to our investigators view, Mr Bs representatives say BPF failed to undertake 
any proper affordability checks before providing this loan. Its not clear to me if this has been 
raised previously with BPF  so Im not certain that BPF has had a chance to consider the 
issue and respond. I think its reasonable to deal with it now however  in light of my findings 
below - and its open to BPF to let me know if it has any objections.
I accept BPF was required to undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mr B was likely to be 
able to afford to repay what he borrowed without too much difficulty. And I think some sort of 
affordability assessment was probably carried out - as Mr B has confirmed that he was 
asked about his income. I dont have much information about what checks were undertaken 
exactly. Even if I were to accept however that BPF didnt do all that it should have before lending, Id still need to be satisfied that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr B in order 
to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr B hasnt supplied much evidence about his financial situation at the relevant time. But, he 
hasnt suggested that he was struggling financially when he took the loan out  or indicated 
that he had any difficulties meeting repayments. Im satisfied that Mr B was able to pay off 
the loan about five months after he took it out  which doesnt suggest he was having 
financial issues at that time. And, on the information I have at the moment, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to reasonably conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Mr B. 
So, Im unable to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
Conclusion
Its for the courts to decide if any claim that Mr B may have against the supplier or BPF has 
expired under the LA. For the reasons Ive given above, I think the claims that Mr B might 
have against BPF have most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is 
reasonable to take this into account in these particular circumstances. And, Im not presently 
persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I 
dont think BPF has treated Mr B unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant properly require 
BPF to compensate Mr B or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional conclusions and let me have any further 
comments or new evidence and I said Id review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision. The time set for responses has now passed. BPF has nothing 
further to add. Mr B doesnt accept my provisional conclusions and his representatives 
provided a detailed response. Ive considered what theyve said and sent carefully and 
summarised this below:-
there is an unfair relationship under Section 140A, between Mr B and BPF, as a 
result of unfair, misleading sales tactics used by the supplier who was acting as 
BPFs agent under Section 56 of the CCA;
the complaint is not time barred under the LA, including under Sections14A and 32;
the product was sold as an investment but this fact was not disclosed by the supplier;
marketing and selling a fractional investment was a regulated activity under FSMA 
and the supplier here was not authorised to carry out such activity rendering the loan 
agreement unenforceable;
there were breaches of the Timeshare Regulations and the Resort Development 
Organisation (RDO) code which amount to breaches of contract - and these 
breaches also mean the relationship between Mr B and BPF was unfair under 
section 140A; 
theyve referred to other timeshare complaints on similar facts to this one some of 
which were upheld by our service.
Taking the last point first, Im not persuaded that another case, where the claim under 
section 140A was not time barred under the LA, is on similar facts to Mr Bs here. In any 
event, decisions made by this service do not create a precedent. We consider each 
complaint on its own unique circumstances. And I make my decision here based on what I 
think is fair and reasonable overall in the individual circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr Bs representatives have referred me to a number of alleged breaches of the Timeshare regulations and the RDO. Even if there were such breaches - and I make no findings about 
that - Im satisfied it doesnt mean this product is not a timeshare contract. I dont accept that 
any breach of the RDO or the Timeshare regulations (if present) would amount to a breach 
of contract - Ive seen nothing to suggest that these were incorporated into the relevant 
agreement. And, for the reasons Ive explained already, Im satisfied (in any event) that any 
breach would have taken place at the time of sale and is therefore out of time under the LA.  
Its also said on Mr Bs behalf that C wasnt authorised when it brokered the loan which 
(contravenes section 19 FSMA and) means the loan is unenforceable under section 27 
(FSMA). I cant see that this specific argument has been put to BPF previously in this 
complaint. Im conscious that BPF hasnt, therefore, had the chance to consider it and 
respond. Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to deal with this point without allowing 
BPF that opportunity. I think its somewhat late in the day to raise the matter however and 
Im not persuaded its reasonable to delay this decision any longer. It remains open to Mr B 
raise this with BPF  should he wish to do so - and, if hes unhappy with the response, he 
may be able to bring another complaint to our service.
For the reasons Ive given already, Im not persuaded that the duty of care required to bring 
a claim under section 14A of the LA was present here. I dont find the argument about sale 
as an investment persuasive. I think its contradictory to suggest that the product was sold as 
an investment at the same time as asserting that this was not disclosed to Mr B. 
I think Ive dealt with the remaining arguments in my provisional decision and nothing thats 
been said or sent to us has persuaded me to change my provisional findings. For the 
reasons set out, I consider the claims that Mr B might have against BPF have most likely 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA and its reasonable to take this into account in 
these particular circumstances. Im not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr B unfairly or 
acted unreasonably and I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr B or do anything 
else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman