DRN-3630062
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt 
with his mortgage account, both in relation to account administration, and in respect of the 
banks decision to decline of a transfer of the property into his sole name.
To settle the complaint, Mr K would like Halifax to pay him compensation of £400.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 1 August 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. I also note that the only issue which is in dispute is the amount of 
compensation Halifax should pay.  Furthermore, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr K being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr K held a mortgage with Halifax, jointly with his wife, Mrs K, from whom he had 
been separated for several years. The mortgage had been overpaid and so, rather than 
making monthly repayments, the surplus had been offset against the repayments due.
Because of a dispute between Mr and Mrs K, when they were due to recommence payments 
in April 2020, the payment was missed, as was the payment for May 2020. The pandemic 
then affected Mr Ks income, and so he and Mrs K applied for a payment holiday. This was 
granted in May 2020 for three months from June-August 2020 inclusive, and a second 
payment holiday was granted from September-November 2020 inclusive. The December 
2020 payment was then missed. The mortgage was brought up to date by April 2021.
Mr and Mrs K reached an agreement in their matrimonial dispute that Mr K would be entitled 
to the equity in the property and would take over the mortgage. However, an online 
application in October 2021 was declined due to adverse credit scoring, so Mr K had to 
speak to a Halifax adviser. 
Ultimately Halifax wasnt able to agree to the application, as it failed affordability criteria. The 
mortgage was repaid in January 2022. However, there was a delay removing the charge 
from the property, because of a very small refund due, and because there was a marital 
dispute marker on the account. As a result, Halifax said it needed consent of both parties to 
close the account and for the discharge to be completed by a solicitor. After receiving 
confirmation from Mr Ks solicitor, Halifax closed the account.
Mr K complained about Halifaxs poor service and about the banks refusal to transfer the 
mortgage into his sole name. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr K raised it with 
our service. Mr K had also raised a complaint that Halifax had failed to tell him that taking a 
payment holiday would affect his credit rating. Halifax didnt log the complaint properly and 
only responded to it when prompted by our service.
An investigator looked at the complaint but for the most part didnt think Halifax had acted 
unfairly. She was satisfied that Halifax was entitled to consider affordability of the mortgage 
for the application for a transfer of equity. Given the payment history on the account, with 
missed payments, and concerns about Mr Ks income, the investigator was satisfied 
Halifaxs decision to decline the request was fair.
With regard to the problems that arose during redemption of the mortgage and discharge of 
the security, the investigator was satisfied that Halifaxs concerns were reasonable, given 
that there was a matrimonial marker on the account. 
In relation to the complaint about adverse data being recorded on Mr Ks credit file, the 
investigator was satisfied that it was pre-existing arrears and the payment history that 
affected the credit file, not the payment holiday. Halifax offered to pay Mr K £200 
compensation for its failure to give Mr K an explanation of this when he first raised the issue 
with the bank in January 2022. The investigator thought this was fair.
Halifax accepted the investigators findings. Mr K did not. He said the investigator was 
biased, and had failed to answer his numerous questions. However, in order to avoid the 
complaint being referred to an ombudsman, Mr K said he would be happy with Halifax 
offering him £400 compensation. The investigator asked Halifax if it would do so, but the 
bank wasnt willing to increase the compensation it had offered. Halifax thought the £200 
offered for poor service was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a joint mortgage. Generally we require both parties to the mortgage to consent to a 
complaint being brought to our service. However, I can make an exception where the issues 
complained of have only had an effect on one customer, in this case Mr K. If Mrs K wanted 
to, she could bring her own complaint about any issues that have affected her, but Im 
satisfied that I am able to consider this complaint brought by Mr K alone, looking only at the 
issues as they relate to him.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr K would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Halifax or act as a representative or 
go-between on this case.
As I said at the outset, I wont go into detail about what happened, but I confirm Ive read and 
considered everything provided by Mr K and Halifax. 
Transfer of equity: There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial 
crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders 
to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
In this case, there was a change to the mortgage that was material to affordability  the 
removal of one of the borrowers. In that case, Halifax was, I find, entitled to consider whether 
or not the mortgage would be affordable in the sole name of Mr K. Having looked at the 
information provided, Im satisfied Mr K didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria, and so the bank 
was, in my opinion, entitled to decline his request to remove Mrs K from the mortgage. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax should have allowed the application on the best interests 
argument. But, given the unorthodox payment history  where the account had been funded 
by an overpayment for several years, and then fell into arrears, followed by another 
overpayment  Im not persuaded the bank was required to allow the transfer of equity, 
particularly as there were other factors relating to Mr Ks pension arrangements that didnt 
meet Halifaxs lending criteria either. 
Mr K had also told Halifax that hed deliberately put the account into arrears to force Mrs Ks 
hand in coming to an agreement in their marital proceedings; this in itself would be a 
sufficient red flag for Halifax to have concerns about whether or not a transfer of equity 
would be in Mr Ks best interests. Overall, Im not persuaded that Halifax acted unfairly, 
given Mr Ks payment and credit history, and the conduct of the account.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Redemption of the mortgage: The property is in Scotland, and so in order to remove the 
security, a deed has to be submitted to remove the entry on either the Land Register or 
Sasine Register (depending on which is applicable). I can see there was a delay in the 
security on the property being removed, which Mr K was unhappy about. Because this was a joint mortgage, but the redemption of the account had come from Mr K, 
Halifax needed to ensure that Mrs K consented to the bank signing the discharge. There was 
also a very small overpayment on the account, which had to be returned to the borrower. But 
as there was a marital dispute marker on the account, Halifax needed consent from both 
parties to the closure of the account, and required a solicitor to complete the discharge. 
I can understand why Mr K felt this was a waste of time, But Halifax had two borrowers on 
the account and so had to ensure that there was consent by both parties, particularly as 
there was a marital dispute marker in place. In the circumstances, I think Halifax was entitled 
to be cautious about redeeming the mortgage and signing the discharge of security without 
the consent of both parties. Halifax ultimately accepted confirmation from Mr Ks solicitors 
alone, which gave the bank an additional measure of protection. 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service:  Mr K made a complaint to Halifax about the impact on his credit file of 
taking the payment holiday. Halifax failed properly to respond to the complaint, and in error 
voided it on its system, meaning Mr K didnt receive a response. It wasnt until we looked at 
the complaint that Halifax replied.
Ive looked at Halifaxs final response dated 15 July 2022, in which Halifax explained how 
arrears had accrued and the impact of this on Mr Ks credit file. Halifax agreed that the credit 
file should be amended to reflect an agreement in January 2021 to set up a payment 
arrangement for February 2021. Halifax also explained that payment holidays were granted 
for June-August 2020 inclusive and September-November 2020 inclusive. However, the 
account was already in arrears for April and May 2020, and was also in arrears in 
December 2020, and so it was those arrears  which affected Mr Ks credit file, rather than 
the payment holidays.
Halifax acknowledged it should have provided Mr K with an explanation of this when he first 
raised the issue (January 2022) and the bank offered compensation of £200 for its poor 
customer service in this regard.
Im satisfied, looking at the payment history, that Halifax is correct about the payment history 
and its impact on Mr Ks credit file. But Halifax should have responded to Mr K in January 
2022, and so I uphold this part of the complaint. I think that a payment of £200 is fair and 
reasonable for the poor service Mr K received here.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that a payment of £200 is fair and reasonable for Halifaxs customer service by 
not explaining to Mr K why arrears were showing on his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaints about the transfer of equity, the 
impact of payment holidays and missed payments on his credit file, or the redemption of the 
mortgage.  For customer service issues, I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to 
pay Mr K £200 compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman