DRN-4239132
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) handling of an 
escape of water claim on their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr M and Mrs M or Great Lakes includes respective agents or 
representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following damage caused by an escape of water, Mr M and Mrs M made a claim on 
their policy in December 2022.
In February 2023 Great Lakes declined the claim as it said the property was 
unoccupied against the policy terms.
Mr M and Mrs M provided evidence to dispute the unoccupancy and in March 2023, 
they raised a complaint.
Great Lakes issued a final response letter. In April 2023 it apologised for poor 
communication and explained it was still trying to validate the claim.
Great Lakes has since accepted liability on the claim, and it issued a further final 
response letter dated 23 May 2023 reviewing Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns over 
delays and lack of communication on the claim. 
Great Lakes agreed Mr M and Mrs M were promised contact which couldnt be 
guaranteed. However, it said the delays were due to the enquiries it deemed 
necessary to validate the claim.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended £200 compensation be 
paid for the delays and the way the claim was handled. 
Mr M and Mrs M dont accept that the compensation amount is fair. They say Great 
Lakes did not act with due diligence. Had it obtained the call when Mr M had incepted 
the policy the claim wouldve been dealt with in a timelier fashion. They have also 
incurred more costs as they appointed a loss assessor to handle the claim.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
I can see there was a delay in getting an initial appointment for the loss adjuster to attend 
the property to assess the damage. And this had to be chased by Mr M and Mrs M on 
several occasions before it went ahead on 31 January 2023.
The claim was then declined mid-February. It wasnt until March 2023 that Great Lakes 
asked for further information about the occupancy of the home and the declarations made, 
and I consider this shouldve been reviewed before issuing its claim decision. Great Lakes 
has since overturned its decision and the claim has been accepted. Great Lakes have 
accepted that its customer service was poor in this period, and I agree it didnt keep to its 
promises of call backs and didnt respond to correspondence as Id have expected it to have 
done.
In April 2023 Mr M and Mrs M made a further complaint about the progress of the claim and 
continuing lack of communication on the claim. 
Having reviewed the contact since the previous complaint I can see that Great Lakes did 
acknowledge the communication within its set timeframes. However, I acknowledge it didnt 
keep to a promise of a call back in May 2023.
I understand Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns about how long it took Great Lakes to accept 
liability, but it is reasonable that the underwriters of a policy have time to review the 
information and ask any questions to validate the claim as per the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr M and Mrs M were entitled to appoint a loss assessor to handle the claim on their behalf. 
But I dont usually require insurers to refund the cost of any professional representation or 
advice a consumer has received. This is because I dont generally consider it necessary for 
such costs to be incurred; and there are other more cost-effective ways of progressing 
matters such as complaining to the insurer or to this Service. So, I wont be directing Great 
Lakes to pay these costs.
Putting things right
In summary Im directing Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay £200 compensation to 
acknowledge the poor service in the early part of this claim and that the early declination 
caused a delay in the claim being progressed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman