DRN-2882538
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Gregory Pennington Limited(GP) failed to tell her that she would 
need to continue to pay the premiums on her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
whilst making a claim.
 
What happened
Mrs S entered into a debt management plan (DMP) with GP in 2010 and was sold a PPI 
policy around the same time that would protect her monthly payments if she was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs S was made redundant in May 2019 and made a claim for unemployment on the policy. 
Although the claim was initially accepted by the insurer, they later declined it on the basis 
that Mrs S had failed to continue to pay the premiums during the claim period.
When Mrs S complained to GP, it said it was confident that it had sent her the policy 
documentation at the time it sold her the PPI in 2010, therefore she would have been aware 
of the need to maintain her premium payments during a claim. Furthermore, it said that Mrs 
S had made a successful claim in 2014, meaning that she was aware of the policy and knew 
that she could claim on it again. GP therefore didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Our investigator took the view that GP hadnt done enough to notify Mrs S about needing to 
continue to pay the policy premiums in the event of a claim and he recommended that GP 
pay Mrs S £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs S disagree with the investigators view, believing that GP was responsible for her losing 
out on her claim being paid. Therefore the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, GP has stated that it would be unable to look at the issue of the policy having been 
mis-sold in 2010 due to the deadline for complaining about mis-sale having passed. I would 
like to point out to GP that there are in fact a limited number of exceptions whereby a 
consumer can bring a mis-sale complaint after the 29 August 2019 deadline. One of these 
exceptions is when a consumer has had a claim fully or partially declined by the insurer. This 
is not a complaint about whether or not the policy was originally mis-sold and I will only be 
looking at the issue of how GP dealt with Mrs S in 2019 when she was made unemployed. 
However, GP should apprise itself as to the rules around mis-selling complaints so that in 
future it does not incorrectly refuse those exceptional cases that could in fact be addressed.
In relation to Mrs Ss DMP, each month she made a single payment of £124 to GP. Some of 
that amount went to paying the companies that Mrs S owed money to, some of it was used 
to pay GPs own fees and £13.78 covered the cost of the insurance premium, which GP paid 
to the insurer on Mrs Ss behalf.
Mrs S made her April 2019 payment as normal. However, she was then made redundant, 
with her last day of work being 6 May 2019. As a result, Mrs S was unable to make her DMP 
payments from May 2019 onwards.
From the evidence provided, Mrs S kept GP informed of her situation. GP has sent us copies 
of some call notes of when it spoke to Mrs S when the PPI was mentioned. It appears it first 
told Mrs S that she could make a claim on the policy on 5 June 2019. However, there is no 
evidence that it ever informed Mrs S that she would need to continue to pay the policy 
premiums if a claim were to be successful. As already mentioned, Mrs S was not paying the 
PPI premium separately herself, it was bound up in the one single payment that she made to 
GP each month. Therefore when she stopped making that payment, it follows that the 
premiums being paid to the insurer also stopped. But Mrs S wasnt told about this or advised 
of the possible consequences or told the process by which she could carry on making just 
the premium payments. Having paid the premium for a number of years, it doesnt make 
sense that she would knowingly stop paying at the point that she was set to benefit from the 
policy at a time of need.
I consider it is more likely than not that Mrs S would have been sent the policy 
documentation back in 2010 because it was a requirement that GP do so. But whilst that 
would have given Mrs S a broad understanding of what the policy was for and the significant 
terms contained within it, I wouldnt expect her to know about the premiums having to be 
maintained during a claim. Having sold her the PPI and knowing that Mrs S had been made 
redundant, GP were well placed to inform her at the earliest possible occasion that she could 
claim on her policy and to advise her that her premiums needed to be kept up to date whilst 
the claim was being assessed. And GP should have understood that, as Mrs S had stopped 
paying her regular DMP payments, that also meant that her insurance premiums would stop. 
However it does not appear to have considered that at all or the potentially serious 
consequences for Mrs S.
I appreciate that Mrs S had made an earlier claim in 2014 but I do not know the 
circumstances of that claim. It is fortunate that Mrs S met the criteria for having the claim 
paid out at that time. But it does not follow that it necessarily gave her an awareness that 
she needed to carry on paying the premiums during a claim.
Ive seen correspondence that Mrs S sent to GP saying that she had been repeatedly told by 
GP not to worry about the missed DMP payments as the PPI would cover the plan payments 
plus an additional amount that would be paid directly to her. Mrs S borrowed money from 
family on the basis that everything was in order and that her claim was ultimately going to be 
paid out. She then suffered embarrassment when her claim was later declined and she was 
unable to fulfill her promise to pay back her family in full. I agree with our investigator that 
GPs failure to communicate the need to maintain the policy premiums resulted in distress 
and inconvenience to Mrs S. It follows that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
 
Putting things right
GP should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
GP should also put systems in place to ensure that it informs its clients who hold PPI 
policies, at the appropriate time, that they need to maintain their premiums during any claim 
period.
  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require Gregory Pennington Limited to 
pay compensation as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman