DRN-3012035
The complaint
Mrs D is complaining that Soteria Insurance Limited has held her partially responsible for an 
accident after she made a claim on her car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the 
amount its paid out for her claim.
What happened
Mrs Ds husband   a named driver  was involved in a road traffic accident with a third 
party. Liability for the accident was in dispute. Mrs D says she was travelling uphill on a 
narrow road when the third partys vehicle approached from the other direction. Mrs D says 
her husband was able to safely pull to the side, but the third party lost control and hit her car. 
The third party disputed Mrs Ds vehicle was stationary at the point of impact.
Soteria assessed the damage on Mrs Ds car and said it wasnt economical to repair so it 
said it would settle the claim by paying the cars market value less the excess. And it valued 
the car at £3,163.
Mrs D didnt accept the valuation as she said she couldnt replace the car with that amount 
as she said its a rare model with very few available on the open market. So she decided to 
keep the car and arrange to have it repaired. Shes unhappy Soteria deducted around 
£1,000 for the cars salvage. She thinks Soteria should pay her the amount she paid to 
repair the car  £3,900. Soteria maintained its valuation was fair and said it had acted in line 
with the terms of the insurance policy.
Soteria initially contacted the third partys insurer holding the third party at fault for the 
accident. But the insurer disputed liability as it said the third party had said Mrs D was still 
moving at the point of impact. So it considered both parties to be partially at fault for the 
accident and proposed to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. Soteria didnt think 
there was enough evidence to dispute the claim further so said it would settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis.
Mrs D didnt think Soteria had treated her fairly in conceding partial liability and she raised 
the following:
Due to the nature of her car and the fact that it was travelling uphill, it was travelling at a 
very low speed and she maintains her car was stationary at the point of impact.
The third party had told the accident management company initially instructed to deal 
with the claim that shed lost control of her car.
The engineer who inspected the third partys car said there wasnt anything wrong with 
the cars brakes.
She thinks Soteria should do more to fight the claim and support her as its customer.
Soteria said there wasnt any independent witnesses to support the fact that her car was 
stationary at the point of impact. It said the likely outcome should the matter proceed to court 
was a split liability resolution. So it wasnt willing to incur extra expenses in going to court.
Or investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Soteria had followed a fair valuation 
process and he didnt think it had come to an unfair conclusion in respect to the decision on 
liability. Mrs D didnt accept the investigators opinion and, in summary, said the following:
She thinks this service is here to level the playing field between her and the insurer, but 
she thinks the investigator has just agreed with everything Soteria has said.
She doesnt think the valuation process is fair. She said the process may work for the 
majority of cars, but it needed to be remembered her car was a rare model. And she said 
the only other model they could find was for sale at around £3,700.
She said the purpose of taking out comprehensive insurance is to enable her to be put 
back in the position she was before the accident. She said shed lost a lot of money to 
get back on the road. She said her husband was vulnerable and it was essential they 
had a reliable car.
She said her legal advisor had said the statements provided by the engineer and the 
accident management company would add a lot of weight to a court claim. And she 
maintained Soteria should pursue the claim against the third partys insurer on her 
behalf.
As Ms D didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mrs D has raised a number of reasons why shes unhappy with Soterias actions. Ive 
considered everything shes said, but Ive not commented on everything shes said. In this 
decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points. No discourtesy is meant by 
this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mrs D has complained about the amount Soteria has paid to settle the claim and that it has 
held her husband partially responsible for the accident. I shall address each point separately.
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ds policy, Soteria has to pay her the market value of the car, 
less her excess.
Soteria has valued Mrs Ds car at £3,163. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry valuation guides. Mrs D doesnt think this valuation is fair because she says her car 
was a rare model so only very few models were still in existence.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars value to take into 
accountIve looked at the valuation of Mrs Ds and I think its fair. Ive looked at the guides and they 
give a range of between £2,575 and £3,369. So I think Soterias valuation of £3,163 for the 
car was fair. 
I recognise that there were only very few models available which meant Mrs D couldnt 
replace the car. And I can understand why she thinks Soteria should have repaired the car 
or paid an increased settlement. But Mrs Ds insurance policy didnt require Soteria to 
replace the car or pay to replace it. It caps Soterias liability at the cars market value. While I 
appreciate there were very limited models available, this doesnt mean the valuation given 
by the guides arent a fair reflection of what Mrs Ds car was worth at the time of the 
accident. And Im satisfied Soteria has followed a fair valuation process.
I acknowledge Mrs D doesnt think the valuation process is fair and is unhappy shes lost out 
financially. She thinks Soteria should have looked to find alternatives to support her knowing 
she couldnt locally source a like for like car. But, like all car insurance policies on the 
market, the terms of the policy entitled Soteria to have sole discetion on how to settle the 
claim. And its not unreasonable the policy says this. Soteria has fulfilled its responsibility 
under the terms of the insurance policy. So I cant say Soteria has treated her unfairly in this 
respect.
Ive also considered her comment that she thinks its unfair Soteria has deducted an amount 
for the cars salvage. But, as set out in the terms of the insurance policy, once Soteria pays 
the market value, the car becomes its property. Soteria was entitled to look to sell the cars 
salvage. The amount it has deducted is what it would have received from selling the car to 
its salvage agent. So I dont think its unfair that it required Mrs D to pay the amount it would 
have received to keep the car.
Liability
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Soteria has carried 
out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mrs Ds policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Soteria to take over and conduct 
at the Insurers expense in Your [Mrs Ds] name or in the name of any other person insured 
by this Insurance Document:
(i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim;
(ii) legal proceedings to recover for the Insurers own benefit any payments made under this 
insurance. 
So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. And it had the ultimate 
and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
Mrs D maintains she was stationary at the point of impact and that, in admitting to skidding 
down the road, the third party had conceded liability. As I said above, its not my role to say 
whether Mrs D was at fault for the accident or not, but I look at whether Soteria had acted 
fairly. Soteria was entitled to consider the likely outcome if the claim went to court. It has 
considered everything Mrs D has said and the statements she provided but its said that 
ultimately there arent any independent witnesses to say whether Mrs D was moving or not 
at the point of impact. Its also considered her comment that the third party said they were 
skidding. But it didnt consider this to be an admission of liability. Ultimately it didnt think it 
had enough to show that the third party was 100% at fault for the accident.I appreciate Mrs D feels strongly about whats happed and that she doesnt think Soteria 
should have admitted liability. But Im satisfied Soteria did consider everything Mrs D said 
before it reached the conclusion it did. And it was entitled to make the decision it did. So I 
dont think its treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman