DRN-3432201
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has charged him safe custody 
fees without his knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr R has an account with RBS. In or about June 2021 he noticed a safe custody charge of 
£25 on his account statement. When he queried the charge, he was told it was an annual 
charge in respect of documents the bank held for him. It had been levied since at least 2011, 
and possibly for some years before that. The banks safe custody records only went back as 
far as 2008, when records were moved to a new system. Mr R believes that RBS may have 
had his documents for around 30 years. 
RBS had no express agreement about the fees but noted that they would have been on Mr 
Rs bank statements. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund £75 of safe custody fees 
and a fee of £13.76 for withdrawing the documents. Mr R said he thought the bank should 
refund £375 (representing fees for 15 years). It didnt agree, and Mr R referred the matter to 
this service. 
Our investigator did not think that RBS had acted unfairly. He concluded therefore that its 
offer was fair. Mr R didnt accept that assessment, however, and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. He thought in particular that RBS ought to be able to show that he had 
expressly agreed to the fees.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate, but not in my view surprising, that RBS cannot provide specific written 
authority to levy safe custody fees. Mr Rs own recollection is that he had documents in safe 
custody from around 1992. I would not expect the bank to have documents from that long 
ago. 
Be that as it may, the banks published tariff of charges does include an annual fee of £25 for 
keeping an envelope in safe custody. I note as well that the fee has appeared on Mr Rs 
bank statements each year. Whilst I do not agree with RBS that Mr R has a duty to check his 
statements, I do believe that he could have identified the fee and queried it very much 
sooner than he did. Had he done so, RBS might have been able to produce the evidence he 
wants. There is of course no dispute that Mr R was provided with a safe custody service for 
many years. 
I note that Mr R says that the documents concerned were share option certificates. He 
exercised the option and sold the shares many years ago, so the option certificates were of 
no value. It was however for Mr R to decide whether he still needed the safe custody service 
and to instruct the bank accordingly. I do not believe that RBS owed him a duty of care of the 
type he has suggested.       
In the circumstances, I do not believe that RBS has treated Mr R unfairly and that its offer is 
therefore reasonable.
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman