DRN-3102423
The complaint
Miss C complained that Monzo Bank Ltd declined a transaction for £1.00 when she tried to 
use her card at a petrol station.
What happened
Miss C has a current account with Monzo. 
In May 2021, she attempted to purchase fuel for her vehicle using the card issued on her 
Monzo account. The petrol station Miss C was using provided a pay at pump facility. This 
meant any card payment had to be authorised before fuel could be delivered. But her card 
authorisation was declined.
Later, Miss C contacted Monzo using their online chat facility. She wasnt happy that the 
card transaction was declined. She said there were enough funds available to purchase the 
amount of fuel she required. 
Monzo explained that using a pay at pump facility meant that the petrol station needed to 
obtain authorisation from Monzo before any fuel is taken. They said the payment didnt go 
through because there may not have been enough money in Miss Cs account to cover the 
maximum potential cost of the fuel.
Miss C still wasnt happy. She said that she only wanted £1.00 of fuel and this amount was 
available on her account. She raised a complaint with Monzo.
Monzo didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. They said that fuel pump transactions can settle 
days later for much larger amounts than the initial £1.00 authorised. The amount couldve 
been for more than Miss C had in her account which would have resulted in an unauthorised 
overdraft. Monzo said they wanted to protect customers from being left in that position so 
may decline a pay at pump transaction if the available balance doesnt cover the largest 
amount of fuel they could potentially be charged for. They said the only way to avoid this is 
for Miss C to have enough money in her account to cover this or by paying at the petrol 
station kiosk, rather than the pump.
Miss C wasnt happy with Monzos response. She said that the petrol station didnt have a 
kiosk. She also didnt think it was fair to have to leave a large sum in her account when she 
only wanted to purchase a small amount of fuel. She referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Cs complaint. He didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong here. He thought that it wasnt possible to know in advance how much fuel 
Miss C wanted to purchase. He thought the problem lay with the petrol station rather than 
Monzo.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators findings. She wanted an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to acknowledge this situation wouldve been quite stressful for Miss C. Particularly 
as I understand she had a child with her at the time of the incident and was clearly 
concerned about being left stranded with her vehicle. 
Pay ay pump technology is a relatively recent introduction to petrol stations in the UK. It 
provides an alternative to paying for fuel in a petrol station kiosk or shop which benefits both 
petrol retailers and consumers. Different petrol retailers use slightly different systems and 
policies. However, the one common aspect is that payments must be pre-authorised before 
any fuel is delivered. This provides the petrol retailer with protection against non-payment 
and the consumer a convenient process for buying fuel.
In Miss Cs case the petrol stations system requested an initial authorisation of £1.00 before 
the pump would deliver fuel. Monzos systems recognised that this authorisation was for fuel. 
But the terms of Miss Cs account with Monzo dont allow for unauthorised overdrafts. So 
Monzos policy is to consider the authorisation request for a higher amount that the £1.00 
requested. They base this amount on what they would see as a reasonable and average 
minimum amount of fuel. It isnt the role of this service to call into question Monzos policies. 
Only whether theyve been applied in a fair and reasonable way relative to Miss Cs 
circumstances here.
Ive been provided with copies of Miss Cs bank account statements. She had £2.82 
available on the date in question. But Monzo said this amount wasnt enough to cover the 
amount they would expect to authorise for a minimum fuel purchase. I can understand why 
they would think that. Many pay at pump petrol stations can deliver up to £99 of fuel in a 
single transaction. So, if Monzo had authorised Miss Cs payment, that is the amount that 
couldve been purchased. 
Miss C said she only wanted to purchase £1.00 of fuel and had enough in her account to 
cover this amount. While I agree with her on that point, I cant see how Monzo could 
reasonably have known that. Its also relevant to say that many petrol retailers have a 
minimum delivery volume of fuel which may have cost more than the amount Miss C wanted 
here. But I wouldnt expect Monzo to have known what that or the fuel price per litre was 
either. 
Monzo have explained to this service the minimum amount they would expect to authorise in 
these situations. But this amount is confidential to Monzo and so Im unable to detail it in my 
findings. But Im satisfied that the amount they use is reasonable for a smaller delivery of 
fuel, where requested.
Unfortunately, where a consumer chooses to make a purchase that requires advance 
authorisation, there is always the potential for problems. This is because the amount of the 
purchase is not known by the bank or the retailer in advance. Monza have explained that 
Miss Cs account doesnt allow for unauthorised overdrafts. So, their policy is designed to 
protect both themselves and Miss C to ensure that this doesnt happen. I think this is a 
reasonable and responsible approach to take here. 
Monzo explained to Miss C that as an alternative, she wouldve been able to add fuel to her 
vehicle using a normal pump. She could then pay for it in the petrol station kiosk or shop. 
This overcomes the problem of pre-authorisation. But Miss C wouldve needed to ensure she 
had sufficient funds in her account to complete the purchase.
I realise that Miss C will be disappointed, but I dont think that Monzo have acted unfairly 
here. I do recognise that Miss C was distressed by the situation. But the amount of fuel she 
wanted to purchase was, in fairness, unusually small and I dont think Monzo couldve reasonably anticipated this. So, I dont think it would be appropriate to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman