DRN-1822240
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how British Gas Services Limited (T/A British Gas) dealt with her 
claim for a replacement dishwasher.
What happened
Mrs B held a HomeCare insurance policy with British Gas Services Limited (T/A British Gas), 
which Ill refer to as BG in this decision. Under this policy Mrs B was covered for repairs to 
kitchen appliances or a contribution towards the replacement of an appliance if a repair 
wasnt possible.
In around June 2019 Mrs B contacted BG to make a claim under her HomeCare policy as 
her dishwasher wasnt working. On 4 June 2019 an engineer attended Mrs Bs property to 
assess whether the dishwasher could be repaired and assist BG in dealing with the claim. 
The engineer confirmed that Mrs Bs dishwasher was broken and a replacement was 
required. Mrs B was told the replacement would be arranged by BGs Appliance 
Replacement Team who would contact her directly.
There were a number of telephone calls between that department and Mrs B about the 
specification of replacement dishwasher BG was prepared to offer. During those calls BG 
explained it was prepared to offer a replacement that it felt was the closest like-for-like match 
to Mrs Bs broken appliance. It told her the replacement appliance it was proposing was 
available from its preferred supplier for a Recommended Retail Price (RRP) of £441.84. So, 
it offered to contribute 30% of that value towards her replacement dishwasher in line with the 
terms of her policy.
But Mrs B raised concerns about the suitability of the model BG proposed to provide as a 
replacement. She said her broken dishwasher had been purchased 28 years ago for £339 
and was second most expensive model available at that time. And she felt the replacement 
proposed by BG wasnt of equivalent specification, which was reflected in its price.
Mrs B suggested a dishwasher, which she felt more closely matched the specification of her 
broken appliance. But BG said the RRP for that appliance was over £1000. Mrs B told BG 
the RRP it was quoting was inflated as she could purchase this dishwasher for around £800. 
And she thought BG should pay her 30% of the value of the appliance she wanted. But BG 
didnt agree. So, Mrs B complained.
In its final response to Mrs Bs complaint BG said the dishwasher it had offered was 
reasonable as it was the closest like-for-like replacement it had been able to source. And it 
told Mrs B it considered the dishwasher she had proposed would put her in a better position 
due to the price and specifications of that appliance. So, it declined to increase its settlement 
offer. 
BG also explained that it thought it had acted reasonably because it had sent her a cheque 
for 30% of the RRP of the replacement dishwasher it had proposed  even though the terms 
of her policy didnt provide for a cash equivalent. However, it did accept there had been delays in how her claim had been progressed. And to recognise the poor service shed 
received it offered to pay £30 compensation.
Being dissatisfied to BGs response to her complaint Mrs B referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mrs B and BG. But they didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld. Overall, they thought the replacement dishwasher Mrs 
B had been offered could be said to be like-for-like. And they felt, in paying Mrs B a cash 
settlement, BG had acted fairly. They also thought the £30 compensation offered to Mrs B 
was reasonable to reflect shortfalls in the service she had received. BG accepted our 
investigators view but Mrs B didnt. So, she asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mrs B or BG its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for this complaint as a whole.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Bs dishwasher broke, which BG agrees is covered by the kitchen 
appliance section of her HomeCare insurance policy. However, theres a disagreement 
between Mrs B and BG about the correct outcome of this claim insofar as it relates to BGs 
proposals to replace the broken dishwasher. 
The crux of this complaint is whether BG has acted reasonably and offered a replacement in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy. So, Ive carefully considered the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mrs B holds with BG. 
The parts of that policy that apply to Mrs Bs claim are found on page 15 of the policy 
booklet, which state that cover is provided for the following: 
 All repairs to the kitchen appliance(s) shown on your statement;
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less 
to replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier 
and make the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
 100% if your appliance is less than three years old
 30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model of your choice from our approved 
supplier. There is no cash alternative.
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to match 
every specification of a damaged item where that would put a customer in a better position 
than if the loss hadnt occurred. But it shouldnt put them in a worse positon either. 
In this case Mrs Bs broken dishwasher couldnt be repaired so BG agreed to make a 
contribution towards its replacement. Because that appliance was 28 years old it offered to 
make a contribution of 30% of the replacements RRP in line with the terms of her policy. When considering which appliance to provide BG is required to source a model with the 
same or similar specifications to the one its intended to replace. As BG wasnt able to 
provide an exact match of Mrs Bs broken dishwasher, due to its age and advances in 
technology, its duty here is to provide the best match it can or on a like-for-like basis. 
Its clear Mrs B is unhappy with the cost of the replacement shes been offered. She feels 
that, because her model was the second most expensive appliance available at the time it 
was purchased, she should be offered a more expensive replacement.  
I appreciate the point Mrs B is making as regards the price she paid for her dishwasher 
when it was new. But like-for-like refers to the specification of the dishwasher rather than its 
RRP. And, while Mrs Bs dishwasher cost £339 when it was purchased it 28 years ago, I can 
see that our investigator has explained that insurers dont take inflation into account when 
considering the value of broken appliances. 
Furthermore, the technology market moves on rapidly and costs can decrease quickly as 
new technologies emerge and existing technologies advance. Therefore, providing an 
equivalent dishwasher will become considerably cheaper over time. So, a dishwasher that 
was the second most expensive on the market at the time it was purchased can be of similar 
specification to a mid or lower range model years later.
Ive compared the features of Mrs Bs broken dishwasher alongside the specification of the 
model BG proposed. And Im satisfied that the appliance it offered Mrs B constitutes the 
closest like-for-like replacement. Ill explain why.
The replacement dishwasher BG proposed was the same brand and had the features Mrs 
Bs broken one had. I understand she told BG it was important that her new appliance had a 
salt container. And I can see the replacement BG proposed has that feature. So, Im 
satisfied it took Mrs Bs requirements into account when considering a replacement model.
I can see that, due to advances in technology, the replacement BG proposed has upgraded 
functionality and more programme options and temperature settings. So, I think the 
replacement dishwasher BG proposed is a better specification overall. And I therefore dont 
agree that it places Mrs B in a worse position as she is suggesting. 
I can see Mrs B found an alternative dishwasher, which she feels is of a more similar 
specification to her broken appliance. Its clear she was unhappy that this dishwasher 
couldnt be sourced by BG for the price she had seen. And I understand the brand she 
wanted wasnt stocked by any of the retailers with which it has an arrangement. 
It isnt unusual for insurers to have an arrangement with a preferred supplier that can offer it 
discounts. This is stipulated in the terms of Mrs Bs policy. So, I cant say BG made an error 
in trying to source a replacement from its preferred supplier here. And it isnt its fault that its 
preferred suppliers didnt stock the model Mrs B wanted.
However, even if the model Mrs B wanted had been available, Im satisfied that if BG had 
replaced her dishwasher with the more expensive model she suggested this would result in 
her receiving a substantially better appliance. This would be contrary to the terms of her 
policy as it would place her in a better position overall. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect BG to settle Mrs Bs claim in line with the model she proposed. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded BG acted unfairly. I can see 
it took on board Mrs Bs wishes to purchase the dishwasher of her choice by sending her a 
cheque in the sum of £132.55, which was 30% of the value of the replacement it had 
proposed. The terms of Mrs Bs policy stipulate that theres no cash settlement. So, in settling her claim 
in this way, I think BG was acting fairly and trying to assist her in purchasing the dishwasher 
of her choice. It follows that I wont be asking it to make a further contribution.
Ill turn now to the delays Mrs B experienced in how BG progressed her claim. It appears this 
was largely due to the fact that BF doesnt usually provide a cash alternative. So, a cheque 
took some time to arrange and send out.
I can see BG accepts it provided poor service here and offered £30 as a goodwill gesture in 
recognition of that. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the time Mrs B was without a replacement dishwasher and the trouble and 
upset that she wouldve been caused. The compensation offered in line with our approach in 
similar scenarios and its what I would have told BG to pay had no offer been made. 
While Mrs B may want BG to pay more compensation I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. It isnt clear whether that amount has 
been paid to Mrs B. If it remains outstanding BG should pay that sum to resolve this 
complaint.
I know that Mrs B will be disappointed by this decision. But, this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve her dispute with BG informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs B any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and that British Gas Services Limited 
(T/A British Gas) should pay Mrs B the £30 it offered to resolve this complaint if it hasnt 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman