DRN-3081427
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are represented by their son (who I will call Mr D) in bringing their complaint. 
He says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited took an unreasonable time to process the 
surrender of their joint whole of life policy. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr and Mrs P want Aviva to pay the surrender value of the policy 
as at January 2021  this was £288,297. In addition, Mr D says they should be given 
compensation of £25,000 along with an explanation of what went wrong, for Aviva to conduct 
an internal review of its practices and for it to issue a written apology to Mr and Mrs P.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs P contacted Aviva to surrender their policy. They were sent the 
relevant surrender forms via post. Aviva confirmed the policys current surrender value as at 
17 October 2020 was £222,973.84 but this amount was not guaranteed  it said the 
surrender value would be recalculated on receipt of the listed identity documentation, original 
policy schedule and completed payment release form. 
Mr D says they supplied all the information Aviva had asked for including the original policy 
certificate from 1984. Despite this, Aviva took more than three months to pay the surrender 
value. In this period, he says they were required to chase Aviva some 30-40 times. 
Mr D also said that Aviva unreasonably asked for proof of an overseas address for Mr P, 
because his passport was from a country in Africa- it did this despite Mr P having permanent 
leave to remain in the UK. Thereafter it conducted a series of investigations into Mr P and 
Mrs Ps residential status and circumstances, that Mr D says was harassing and unfair. 
In November 2020, Mr D complained on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf by telephone and thereafter 
later that month in writing.  
Aviva rejected the complaint in late November 2020.  It said as it had been made aware that 
one of its policyholders was residing overseas, this changed its requirements to enable the 
policy to be surrendered. It said it was entitled to obtain sufficient identity information to 
ensure policy proceeds are paid correctly to safeguard is customers and prevent fraud. It 
said once the right information was received and verified, the funds would be paid.  
Mr D responded on his parents behalf. He said they had a complaint about four issues:
  
1. in his view, Mr Ps identity had been satisfactorily checked and Aviva had failed to 
explain why it was still asking for additional identity evidence;
2. if Mr P was a white, American citizen would he have been treated the same way?     
3. it has been challenging to meet Avivas unreasonable demands whilst the UK was 
experiencing further pandemic restrictions;
4. Aviva failed to discharge a reasonable duty of care to Mr and Mrs P.
Mr D then formalised the issues into a further written complaint of 8 January 2021. He 
explained that since those issues had been raised the surrender value had been agreed- but 
now Aviva was querying Mr and Mrs Ps choice of bank despite it being a UK regulated firm. 
He also confirmed Mr and Mrs P were now seeking £25,000 compensation for the distress 
Aviva had caused them over the previous three months. The value was principally based on 
Mr Ds time using a percentage calculation of his salary.   
So, Mr D brought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint to this service. He said Avivas delays had 
meant Mr and Mrs P were not able to invest the proceeds into equities as they had planned, 
meaning they missed the opportunity to earn a further £51,000 on the surrender value. They 
had surrendered a similar policy with a different business in October 2020 and the other 
business paid the full value in five days. He explained how Mr and Mrs P felt discriminated 
against based on their age and nationality, financially deprived, and unhappy that further 
delays were still going on. He said this level of upset given Mr and Mrs Ps respective ages 
has detrimentally affected their health.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. They 
said Aviva had calculated the surrender value as at the date Mr and Mrs P had met the 
requirements to receive the funds  in this case on 29 December 2020. That was 
£223,399.41 including £234.80 interest. The investigator said Aviva hadnt done anything 
wrong in paying that value.  
Though the investigator appreciated that Aviva had said in October 2020 that surrender 
usually took six to ten weeks, in this case it had been longer. However, it had reasonably 
explained that the surrender process is lengthened when a policyholder lives overseas  that 
time estimate was for UK residents. Once the correct certified documentation was received 
on 22 December 2020, Aviva confirmed the surrender value for the policy as at 29 
December 2020 and this was a fair timescale. 
The investigator did also consider that Aviva did not send the actual confirmation of 
surrender until 4 February 2021. This was because payments have to be verified and Aviva 
had explained this. It also paid interest from the date the policy was surrendered on 29 
December 2020, so Mr and Mrs P had not lost out. The investigator did not think Aviva 
should do anything more, nor did the investigator think that Aviva ought to compensate Mr 
and Mrs P for the loss of being able to invest the proceeds elsewhere straight away. 
Mr D said he wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He made several further 
points:
that Aviva asked for further information wasnt upsetting of itself, but it was done in 
such a way that Mr and Mrs P felt they had been prejudiced and treated unfairly;
they werent asked for further documents as certification until after theyd sent them 
in and had to chase Aviva;
the investigator didnt answer the question of who was at fault  but Mr and Mrs P 
contend it was Aviva;
Aviva failed to set any clear process or expectation for Mr and Mrs P;
the investigator pointed out one occasion on a call where a six to ten week timescale 
was mentioned but there were several other calls where the shorter timescales like 
five days or two weeks were mentioned;
their understanding is that the Financial Conduct Authority sets out regulations for 
businesses and therefore the surrender value ought to have been paid in a timely 
manner;
the investigator initially (incorrectly) said that Aviva had been fair in honouring the 
surrender value at October, not December  though the investigator had since 
corrected that point, it makes him and his parents question whether the issues with 
the complaint had been understood at all;ultimately they feel consumers ought to be fairly compensated when a business gets 
things wrong;
Mr D takes the view that Aviva has systemic issues in the way it handles surrenders 
of policies such as these.  
Aviva didnt make any other comments. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr D has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both Aviva and our 
service. I also note hes given detailed comments of his view on Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, 
and I thank him for these. 
Though I have reviewed everything before me, I wont be addressing each point raised by Mr 
D; my remit is to make findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in 
the circumstances. I will therefore set out my findings on what I believe are the central issues 
in this complaint. Having done so, I dont believe this complaint should succeed
I can see just how upsetting the process of receiving the surrender value has been for Mr 
and Mrs P, and also for Mr D as their representative. But I can only uphold a complaint 
against a business where I find it to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way  and 
though all of the extra steps Aviva took did prolong receipt of the surrender value, I dont 
believe Aviva was unfair in taking action to ensure it was paying out the claim correctly.  
In the paperwork issued to Mr and Mrs P, Aviva explained the documentation it needed to 
see (originals or certified copies) from a designated list. It also made clear in the letter that 
Mr and Mrs P needed to note that this value is not guaranteed. We will recalculate it after 
receiving a correctly completed Payment Release Form.
The letter also goes on to explain Aviva will carry out certain checks to ensure it is paying 
out the proceeds from the policy to the right entity  be that a person, owner, trustee, legal 
representative, beneficiary or approved financial services company.  
When Mr and Mrs P returned their evidence, it was noted Mr P had a passport from an 
African country  it was not Mr Ps nationality which prompted Aviva to do anything 
differently; as Mr D points out, Mr P has a legal right to reside in the UK. What prompted its 
further requirement for additional evidence was the fact Mr P wasnt in the UK  he was 
residing in his country of origin, only returning home at a later date. Aviva contends it 
therefore needed overseas proof of address, and I dont find that to be unreasonable. 
There were a number of other factors which meant that Mr and Mrs Ps surrender request 
was processed by a specialist department. From the information Ive seen, this was based 
on Mr and Mrs Ps age in part  but for the same reasons Mr D has raised now. That is that 
their respective older ages meant they required assistance from Mr D and had their daughter 
named on the bank account. Aviva says it performs further checks on potentially vulnerable 
policyholders  and that includes those with language barriers and elderly customers as well 
as some other factors which I cannot set out here, as it says these are commercially 
sensitive and we do not have consent to publish them in a decision. 
However, I have seen Avivas full commercial reasoning for the further checks, and I am 
satisfied that the explanation it has given is fair in the circumstances.  As our investigator has explained, this service will not usually interfere in how a business 
sets up its internal practices or procedures. I know Mr D would like us to look at this, but we 
are not a regulator. That role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. What we can look at is 
if a business has behaved reasonably in operating its stated procedures. 
I dont believe Aviva was unfair or unreasonable in requiring Mr P to provide evidence of his 
overseas address. That Mr and Mrs P also had a UK address and property doesnt negate 
Avivas need to ensure it was dealing with the right policyholders, particularly when one 
policyholder was overseas without the other, and Mr and Mrs P did require the support of Mr 
D for correspondence. 
I know Mr D makes the comparison to if Mr P had been a resident of a different country, and 
how he believes there might have been a difference of treatment. But Ive seen no clear or 
objective basis for that, rather, I believe it is an opinion of Mr D. Aviva has said it would 
perform checks of this nature where one joint policyholder is residing outside of the United 
Kingdom, irrespective of the location, and I dont find that proposal to be an unfair provision.  
I realise Mr P was put to additional trouble of obtaining evidence of his overseas address 
whilst he was still away, and this proved difficult because utility bills are not set out in the 
same format as the UK. But that wasnt Avivas fault  it couldnt have anticipated that when 
setting out the types of evidence it could and couldnt accept as valid identification.  
Once Aviva did receive the correctly certified evidence on 22 December 2020, it processed 
the surrender value within seven days  and this is a reasonable timescale. By this time, the 
policy value had increased from the quotation given dated 17 October 2020. 
Aviva has provided this service with relevant screenshots of the policy surrender date, and 
the process date in the chorology of communication it had with Mr and Mrs P. However, Mr 
and Mrs P didnt know this until the payment was confirmed  this naturally created 
confusion for them that they believed the surrender value might be higher. 
I recognise Mr Ds frustration that by the time Mr and Mrs P were sent a policy statement in 
January 2021, the value of the policy had increased. And this value wasnt passed to them 
because the policy was already surrendered on 29 December 2020. 
However, Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is principally that Aviva shouldnt have taken the time it 
did to surrender the policy. It doesnt follow that Mr and Mrs P should be compensated for a 
value theyd never have received, because the policy should be surrendered at the earliest 
possible date once Aviva has received satisfactory identification to process the payment. 
If the payment isnt made once surrender is finalised, then Aviva needs to calculate interest 
from the date of surrender to the date payment is made  and it has done so. That interest 
payment accounts for the time taken by Aviva to pay the value and the fact Mr and Mrs P 
were deprived of the funds because of Avivas delay.  
I also recognise that Mr and Mrs P and Mr D have lost faith in Aviva, and therefore they 
believe it is unusual that the policy value jumped up in value in a short time. However, I cant 
reasonably compel Aviva to provide a breakdown of a payment that Mr and Mrs P would 
never have received. That is not because Aviva says that the subsequent calculation is 
commercially sensitive, but because it is a moot point -Mr and Mrs P would not have 
received the figure of £288,297 in January 2021 when the policy had already been 
surrendered the previous month.
Finally, I note Mr D has suggested Mr and Mrs P wish to take legal action against Aviva. 
That is a matter for them to decide, and if they do not accept my decision they are not bound by it. That means Mr and Mrs P remain free to consider other action if they wish to do so.  
My final decision
Though I can see this matter has been upsetting for Mr and Mrs P and Mr D, I do not agree 
that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in processing their policy surrender by 
requiring additional evidence from Mr P. Nor do I think any further compensation, redress or 
provision of a written explanation ought to be provided to them in these circumstances. I 
therefore cannot uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman