DRN-3850296
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr L and Ms K hold with Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin Money). Mr L and Ms K ported their mortgage product to a new 
property and say Virgin Money didnt apply the correct interest rate. Their rate was due to 
expire shortly after this, so they applied for a new fixed rate, which also wasnt applied 
correctly.
What happened
Mr L and Ms K arranged to port their mortgage to a new property through a broker in 
January 2022. Mr L and Ms K understood everything was sorted out and they would 
continue paying their old interest rate of 2.18%. But their existing rate was due to end in 
March 2022, so Mr L and Ms K also applied for a new fixed rate of 1.60% shortly afterwards. 
The new rate was expected to start immediately after their existing product expired. 
In the meantime, Mr L and Ms K discovered their existing interest rate had not been applied 
to their account, so theyd been asked to pay the standard variable rate of 4.49%. Virgin 
Money looked into this and confirmed the wrong rate had been applied to their account and 
as a result, their contractual monthly payments (CMPs) were higher than they should have 
been. Virgin Money amended the interest rate and refunded the additional interest Mr L and 
Ms K had paid. 
Following this, Mr L and Ms Ks product came to an end, but they then discovered their new 
interest rate of 1.60% hadnt been updated, so again, Mr L and Ms K were paying the higher, 
standard variable rate for their mortgage.  Virgin Money looked into this further and said it 
had issued an offer to them on 1 February 2022. Virgin Money says Mr L and Ms K were 
required to review, sign and return the document before 18 February 2022 in order for the 
new rate to start on 1 March 2022. Virgin Money says the form was never returned. And, as 
the offer has now expired, Mr L and Ms K would need to submit a new application. 
By this point, the Bank of England base rate had increased, so the standard variable rate 
had gone up to 4.74%, resulting in higher CMPs for Mr L and Ms K until a new product could 
be arranged. Virgin Money offered to refund the additional interest for the first CMP and 
awarded compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by delays in its 
responses, but otherwise it didnt think it had done anything wrong in terms of the application 
for a new interest rate.
Mr L and Ms K remained unhappy as they said the relevant forms were signed and returned 
to Virgin Money on time, so they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed their concerns, but they didnt think Virgin Money needed to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint. Mr L and Ms K disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr L and Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Virgin Money has accepted full responsibility for Mr L and Ms Ks interest rate not being 
correctly applied to their account when they ported their mortgage. Ive looked at the 
compensation Virgin Money has paid to put Mr L and Ms K back in the position they would 
have been in, and Im satisfied it has corrected its mistake. 
So, I think the crux of this complaint is about the unresolved issue concerning Mr L and 
Ms Ks application for a new fixed rate product. Mr L and Ms K expected their new rate to 
start as soon as their existing fixed rate came to an end on 1 March 2022. This would have 
prevented them from paying higher CMPs on the standard variable rate. 
Ive seen a copy of the offer that was sent to Mr L and Ms Ks broker. The letter said 
warning! in red and went on to say:
If your client wants their new deal to start on the 1st of the month, we need the signed 
paperwork by the 18th of the month before. If we get it in time, everything will be good to go 
on the 1st. If we don't we'll try to be ready but we can't promise. For example, if someone 
wants their new product to start on 1 September, we'll need the paperwork by 18 August.
Got a question? No problem, just give us a call.
Virgin Money says following this letter, it didnt receive a signed copy of the offer and without 
this it was unable to apply the new rate to Mr L and Ms Ks mortgage. 
In order for me to find Virgin Money had done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied the 
documents were signed, returned, and that Virgin Money had either lost the documents or 
not processed the documents on time. Ms K says she posted the documents to Virgin 
Money using a pre-paid envelope and put it in a post box near her home. She says she 
always returns documents punctually and didnt anticipate there being any problems with a 
pre-paid envelope. Unfortunately, while I dont doubt Ms Ks recollection of returning the 
documents, theres no record that anything was received by Virgin Money. 
To uphold this part of Mr L and Ms Ks complaint, I would need to see something like a 
Royal Mail recorded delivery status update confirming receipt at Virgin Moneys address, or 
a copy of an email showing the documents were returned to the email address Virgin Money 
asked for the documents to be sent to. Without evidence such as this, I cant reasonably say 
Virgin Money should take responsibility for the missing document.  
Ive thought about whether Virgin Money should have got in touch with Mr L and Ms K or 
their broker. But I wouldnt expect Virgin Money to chase customers to return documents 
relating to applications, because its up to customers to decide whether they wish to proceed 
with applications or not. So, if the signed documents were not received, I cant hold Virgin 
Money responsible for the new interest rate not being applied to Mr L and Ms Ks account 
when they expected it to be.  
Ive also thought about the error Mr L and Ms K had already experienced and given what 
happened, I would have expected Mr L and Ms K and their broker to notice that they hadnt 
received any confirmation of the new rate being agreed. When they ported their mortgage, 
they received a letter shortly afterwards to confirm the rate, the CMP, and when the first 
payment would be due. So, I would have expected them to have been waiting for something 
similar to this, and to check everything was ok when they didnt receive anything.Virgin Moneys provided its call records and I cant see any evidence of Mr L, Ms K, or their 
broker contacting Virgin Money to ask why they hadnt received any paperwork confirming 
the new interest rate was ready to start on 1 March 2022. The broker has also supplied 
records which tie up with Virgin Moneys records, showing that they didnt contact Virgin 
Money to check the rate was ready to start. So, I dont think Virgin Money had any reason to 
notify Mr L and Ms K or their broker that the signed documents hadnt been received. 
I understand Mr L and Ms K have found the situation stressful and their CMPs are much 
higher than expected which is having a significant impact on their ability to keep up with 
payments and other expenses. But Mr L and Ms K chose not to submit a new application for 
a fixed rate while their complaint was ongoing, so they havent attempted to mitigate their 
losses, and that was their choice. Given what Ive said above, while Im sorry Mr L and Ms K 
find themselves in this situation, Im satisfied Virgin Money has corrected the initial mistake  
and I cant hold it responsible if the documents for the new interest rate were not received.
It does appear Virgin Money didnt always respond to Mr L and Ms K in a timely manner 
following their complaints, but Virgin Money has offered £175 to compensate Mr L and Ms K 
for that and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows, I dont 
think Virgin Money needs to do anything more. Its not clear whether the award for distress 
and inconvenience has been paid yet. If it hasnt, Mr L and Ms K can now decide whether 
they wish to accept Virgin Moneys original offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr L and Ms Ks complaint. If Mr L and 
Ms K accept my decision, Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money should pay any 
outstanding compensation not already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman