DRN-4227132
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the advice given by Chetwood Wealth Management Ltd (Chetwood) 
to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs P approached Chetwood in 2008 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. I 
understand she was referred to Chetwood by a friend.  
Chetwood completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ps circumstances and 
objectives. This, and the other information from the point of sale showed, that:
She was aged 51 and in good health. She had two older, but still dependent, 
children. 
She was recently separated from her husband and expected this to be permanent. 
She was employed, but it was noted that she was struggling financially, partly due to 
the recent separation. 
She lived in rented accommodation, and she had no financial assets other than £200 
in a savings account. 
Chetwood also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ps attitude to risk, which it said was 
balanced. This was described as someone whos tolerance for risk would be fairly 
conservative, but they would be prepared to take a reasonable amount of risk. They would 
be looking for a good return above inflation.
On 9 May 2008, Chetwood advised Mrs P to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds. A total of £66,336.08 was transferred to 
a Hawthorn Life Personal Pension. Mrs P took the maximum amount of tax-free cash 
straight away which I understand was around £16,584. 
The pension Mrs P started had the ability to provide a guaranteed income, provided Mrs P 
didnt withdraw above certain amounts. The illustrations the pension provider produced show 
this was set at zero. And I havent seen anything further that shows this guarantee was 
applied in this case. There isnt a mention of a guaranteed income amount in the suitability 
letter (this policy feature is described generally). 
Mrs P started to take an income from the plan in 2014, and this was increased in 2015. She 
transferred the pension to a third-party in 2015. It had a value £61,954, Mrs Ps 
representative said the withdrawals she had taken at this point totalled £20,462.99. 
The point-of-sale information said the reasons for the recommendation were that Mrs P: 
Wanted to release existing capital from her DB scheme to replace her car and to 
increase her savings. She has clarified that she thought the car was about to need 
repairs. 
Wanted to give herself a financial boost as she was finding it difficult to cope 
financially. 
Had no other way to raise these funds and she had no other pension plans
Didnt want to take an income from her DB scheme. 
Mrs P complained in May 2022 to Chetwood about the suitability of the transfer advice. She 
said that she was concerned that the recommendation was not suitable for her. This was 
because purchasing a car and receiving a financial boost werent good enough reasons for 
the transfer, and her other financial circumstances did not justify it. The report was long and 
Mrs P found it confusing. She didnt fully understand the advice. 
Chetwood didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It believed that it acted in her best interests and 
that she had no realistic alternative but to access her preserved pension benefits at the time. 
However, it went on to say that it thought the complaint had been made out of time. This was 
because it was made later than six years after the event complained about. And she had 
taken the benefits from her plan in 2017 and so she should have been aware that her 
income may be reduced. So, it said she should have complained within three years of this 
time.
Mrs P referred her complaint to our service. An ombudsman has considered the jurisdiction 
of this complaint and a decision has been issued earlier which found that the complaint is 
one that we can consider. No issues have been raised about the jurisdiction of the complaint 
and Ive no comment to make about it, other than I agree I can consider the complaint. 
An Investigator went on to uphold the complaint and recommended that Chetwood pay 
compensation. He said that whilst it was likely that Mrs P was going through a difficult, and 
financially challenging time, he wasnt persuaded that the advice was in her best interests. 
And Chetwood doesnt seem to have made a full analysis of the benefits she gave up as it 
was required to do.  
Chetwood disagreed, saying that at the time it was clear she was in a difficult situation, and 
she had no alternative but to transfer her DB scheme to rectify this. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Chetwood's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Chetwood 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Chetwood was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) by the regulator 
showing how much Mrs Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme. This calculation is known as the critical yield. 
As far as I can see, Chetwood didnt do this. It hasnt said that it did this calculation and none 
of the information I would expect to see in a TVAS is included in the suitability report. 
The illustrations from the product provider do provide some indication of the growth rates 
needed. Although I dont think its reasonable to say that they are the same as the 
information that would be found in a TVAS. Ive looked at these when considering if the 
transfer was financially viable. 
The DB scheme information Ive seen shows that at the date of the transfer Mrs P had a 
deferred pension of £4,664.09 per year. I understand this would be increased up to the 
schemes normal retirement date, which was her age 60 in 2017. Its not clear if she could 
take any tax-free cash and a reduced income when she retired.
The illustrations show that if the fund grew at the regulators lower rate she would receive a 
pension at age 60 of £3,760, the middle rate amount is £4,100, and the higher rate £4,660. 
The regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and 
the lower projection rate 5%.
The illustration referred to a critical yield, but it does say this is a comparison with an 
alternative annuity Mrs P could purchase at the time of sale, which was just over £1,500 a 
year rather than the benefits she gave up from the DB scheme. The investment return 
required to match this level of pension income at retirement was around 7.35% per year at 
her ages 65, 70 and 75. 
Whilst this isnt the information that Mrs P should have been provided this does indicate to 
me that Mrs Ps personal pension would need to grow by more than 9% to replicate the 
benefits she gave up in the DB scheme. Although I dont think this information is very clear 
and it doesnt readily explain the benefits, and the cost of the benefits, she was giving up. The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The discount rate was 6% per year for 8 years to 
retirement in this case. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs P's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
It was recorded that Mrs P was a balanced risk investor. But I would expect someone who 
is prepared to take a balanced risk to have some investment experience and the capacity to 
take some risk. Neither of these seem to apply here. Mrs P doesnt seem to have invested 
before and, given her vulnerable and changing situation at the time, seems to have a very 
low capacity to take risk. So, I think her tolerance to risk was likely to be lower than this. 
I think Mrs P was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with her likely attitude to 
risk. As above it appears she needed to receive returns around the regulators higher 
projection rate or above. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ps best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Chetwood has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Chetwood has referred particularly to her 
need for funds. Ive considered this below. 
Flexibility and income needs
Chetwood advised Mrs P to transfer the DB scheme so she could access her pension 
straight away. This was so she could purchase another car and repay some debts she had 
recently built up. I understand that she did do this. And that she also increased her working 
hours and received some assistance from family members over the time shortly after the 
transfer. 
Of course Mrs P was clearly in a difficult, and uncertain, situation here. And the DB transfer 
would have offered a straightforward way to alleviate some of these difficulties. 
But whilst I dont want to make light of Mrs Ps problems, they do seem to be due to her 
recent separation. This would be a significant change for her and its reasonable to say she 
would need to make adjustments going forward. This wouldnt be unusual and means that 
the situation she was in may have been temporary. It could be said that this was the wrong 
time to give advice on pension planning, given the changes she was undergoing with her 
personal life. 
And there are indications that she could have alleviated her problems a different way, such 
as by increasing her working hours or receiving assistance from her family. And this is what I 
understand she did, alongside the pension transfer. So, I dont think it was right that Mrs P 
didnt have any alternatives to the DB transfer as Chetwood now says. 
What Chetwood really needed to do was to explore the alternatives that she did have to 
meet her immediate aims. But I cant see that any reasonable alternatives to this were fully 
discussed at the time of sale. And as Ive said above, the loss of the DB scheme benefits was a significant cost to Mrs P, 
and the costs and disadvantages to the DB transfer should have been fully explained to her. 
To enable her to make an informed decision about whether to transfer. I dont think this 
happened here.  
I think, given what I have been provided, and on balance, that its reasonable to say that if 
this had been done this then Mrs P may not have transferred. I think she would have 
realised that the transfer was not in her financial interests and made other changes. As she 
did in any event. Im not persuaded that he had a real and urgent need to access her 
pension.  
Overall, I dont think its been demonstrated that Mrs P required flexibility in retirement. This 
is because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access 
her tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds 
invested until a later date. 
Chetwood didnt properly establish what Mrs Ps income needs were in retirement. And it 
should have done this. But even so I think she would have been better placed to meet her 
retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The suitability letter said that the death 
benefits were an important consideration here.  
The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension could have been an 
attractive feature to Mrs P, although its not documented that they were. But the priority here 
was to advise Mrs P about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Chetwood explored to 
what extent Mrs P was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits. 
I think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs P was 
married, although I understand this wouldnt be for much longer, and she had children. And 
so the spouses and dependents pensions provided by the DB scheme may have been 
useful to her dependents if Mrs P predeceased them. And even though Mrs P had recently 
separated from her husband she may still have wanted to provide for all of her immediate 
family on her death, to ensure her childrens welfare was protected. 
I dont think Chetwood made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs P. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Chetwood should not 
have encouraged Mrs P to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs P wanted to leave a legacy for her family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think 
Chetwood shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs P. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB schemeI think Mrs Ps desire for flexibility and control over her pension benefits was overstated. Mrs 
P was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that she had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mrs P  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
her DB scheme.
And Ive seen no evidence that the funding of her employers DB scheme was in a position 
such that Mrs P should have genuinely been concerned about the security of her pension. 
Suitability of investments
Chetwood recommended that Mrs P invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs P, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mrs P should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and the ready access to some funds would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mrs P. But Chetwood wasnt there to just transact what Mrs P might 
have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs P needed 
and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs P was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs P was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs P shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts and to purchase, or repair, a car. The potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think Chetwood shouldve advised Mrs P to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs P would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Chetwood's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Chetwoods advice. I say this because Mrs P was 
an inexperienced investor, in a challenging situation, and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mrs Ps retirement provision. So, if Chetwood had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Ps need for help with her immediate situation was so great that 
she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise 
she had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. If Chetwood 
had explained that Mrs P could meet all of her objectives without risking her guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mrs P would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Chetwood should compensate Mrs P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs P, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs P would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Chetwood must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs P has partially retired, and she has taken a small income from her pension. 
She wouldnt have been able to do this from the DB scheme. But given her circumstances I 
think compensation should be based on her taking benefits at the schemes normal 
retirement date, that is age 60. I think its likely she would have taken her DB scheme 
benefits at this time if she had remained in the scheme. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ps acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Chetwood should:
calculate and offer Mrs P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs P before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs P receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs P accepts Chetwoods offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs P for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Chetwood 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mrs 
Ps would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Ps likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chetwood Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mrs P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Chetwood Wealth Management Ltd pays Mrs P the balance.
If Mrs P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chetwood Wealth 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman