DRN-4191212
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that they have been unable to pay off their mortgage with 
Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L have a mortgage with Santander. The mortgage is composed of a main 
account and two smaller accounts and is on an interest only basis. Mr L and Mrs L intended 
to pay off the majority of the borrowing by cashing in an endowment policy that they held 
with a policy provider. That endowment policy matured in July 2022. Mr L and Mrs L say that 
they have ben given incorrect payment information by Santander that prevented them paying 
off the loans and the bank hasnt been pro-active in sorting the matter out even though its 
been copied into all correspondence.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Santander 
confirmed the correct payment details to Mrs L. Mr L and Mrs L disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint against Santander and in order to uphold that complaint against I need to 
conclude that the bank has done something wrong. Santander is owed money by Mr L and 
Mrs L. I understand that Mr L and Mrs L can access the proceeds of an endowment policy. 
Mrs L contacted her policy provider which sent her a maturity form and in November in a 
phone call Mrs L contacted Santander to ask what account to pay the money into. Ive 
listened to that call. Mrs L asked the adviser to confirm the sort code and account number 
that she had. The adviser confirmed she had the correct details and reminded her about the 
reference which was the mortgage account number. I understand that to be the correct sort 
code and account number and account reference. Ive no indication that Mr L and Mrs L tried 
to make payment to that account but were prevented from doing so by any of the details 
provided by Santander being incorrect.
Santander are owed money by Mr L and Mrs L as these loans have now matured. Its not 
Santanders role to sort out the issues between Mr L and Mrs L and the policy provider about 
how that payment is affected. Santander provided correct details of the account to which that 
money should be paid which is sufficient. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman