DRN-3198816
The complaint
Ms T complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) cancelled her HomeCare policy 
without telling her. And that they failed to provide an annual service during the period she 
was on cover. 
What happened
Ms T held a HomeCare package from BG. When her boiler broke down in November 2020, 
she contacted them to arrange a repair. But BG told her theyd cancelled the policy in June 
2020 as theyd been unable to take the monthly payments from her account since April 
2020. Therefore they said they couldnt repair her boiler without charge.
Ms T complained to BG. She wanted a free repair visit, a refund of the premiums paid and a 
year of free insurance. She said shed not been told that BG couldnt collect the required 
payments. Or that the policy had been cancelled. She also complained that shed not 
received the service shed paid for. She said BG hadnt completed the annual boiler service 
for over four years. Ms T said this failure had led to her having no heating or hot water for a 
long period of time. And that this had caused her huge stress and health issues.
In their final response to Ms Ts complaint, BG didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd 
emailed Ms T a number of times to let her know about the missed direct debit payments. 
Theyd also written to her in June 2020 to let her know the policy had been cancelled due to 
non-payment. Apparently the email address they held on file was no longer active. But BG 
said that their terms and conditions explain that its the customers responsibility to keep 
them informed of any changes in contact details. BG noted that the last service visit took 
place in February 2017. They said theyd sent emails and a follow-up letter reminding Ms T 
to book the next service. But that Ms T hadnt arranged one. They said theyd done the same 
thing for the following years service. But Ms T hadnt arranged that one either. BG noted 
that as the policy had been cancelled in 2020 no service had been missed for that policy 
year. BG offered £130 as a goodwill gesture for the two annual boiler services that hadnt 
taken place.
Ms T remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
BG had shown that theyd tried to contact Ms T about the non-payment. And considered that 
the terms and conditions had clearly noted that it was Ms Ts responsibility to keep BG 
informed of any changes to her contact details. He didnt think BG had acted unfairly when 
theyd cancelled the policy for non-payment. He noted that the terms and conditions required 
one service to be completed each contract year. And although BG had shown that theyd 
tried to arrange these in the 2018 and 2019 contract years, they hadnt happened. Our 
investigator felt that BGs goodwill offer of £130 in respect of the two missed annual services 
was fair under the circumstances. 
BG were satisfied with the view. Ms T wasnt. She said that the view failed to consider how 
BG could continue to take her premiums when they hadnt serviced the boiler. And she 
continued to state that she hadnt received notification that the account was closed.
Our investigator asked BG for further information. And issued a second view. He still didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He said that a refund wasnt appropriate as the policy 
had provided cover had Ms T had any issues with her boiler, radiators etc during the time 
she was on cover. He noted that BG had provided evidence that theyd sent emails and a 
letter to Ms T about the payments not being collected, and the policy then being cancelled.
Ms T didnt agree. So her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know Ms T will be disappointed with this 
outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ms T has complained that her policy was cancelled without notification. She also said that no 
service was carried out on her boiler for a lengthy period, despite the policy providing an 
annual service. She told this service that: this lack of checks led to the boiler issues. And 
considers that if BG had checked her boiler it wouldnt have broken down. Ms T told this 
service shed like her boiler to be serviced, a refund of the premiums shes paid and a free 
year of HomeCare. Shed also like compensation for the stress having no heating and hot 
water has given her.
Ill first consider whether BG acted fairly when they cancelled Ms Ts policy. 
The terms and conditions of the policy explain when BG can cancel on page 34. This says:
When we can cancel
We can cancel your agreement or product if:
you dont make your payments
Well try writing to you to collect the money you owe. If we dont hear from you and you dont 
pay, well cancel your agreement no less than 30 days after the date we first found out your 
payment had failed. You may also have to pay cancellation charges  see cancellation 
charges table.
From what Ive seen, the April 2020 monthly premium payment couldnt be taken. BG 
emailed Ms T to let her know on 3 and 16 April 2020. And sent a letter on 18 April 2020. 
Ms T said that the email address BG held was no longer in use. So she didnt receive the 
emails telling her the direct debit payments had been missed. BG then wrote to tell Ms T the 
policy had been cancelled on 12 June 2020. But Ms T said she didnt receive the letter about 
the policy being cancelled. 
The terms and conditions cover contact details under the section Your responsibilities, on 
page 27. These state:
Keeping us up to date
Its your responsibility to keep us informed of any changes to your contact details including 
telephone number, address or email. 
So it was Ms Ts responsibility to ensure BG had the correct contact details for her. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold BG responsible for not having the correct email 
address on file. 
From what Ive seen, BG did what they could to alert Ms T to the failed direct debit payment. 
They then cancelled the policy as the premium hadnt been paid. And they tried to let her 
know that the policy had been cancelled. I consider that they followed the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And that they acted fairly and reasonable. So Ive no evidence to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Ill now consider Ms Ts complaint that no service was carried out on her boiler for a lengthy 
period of time. 
Ms T said that no service was carried out on her boiler for a lengthy period of time. And if the 
boiler had been serviced as it shouldve been, the boiler wouldnt have broken down. So she 
holds BG responsible for the boiler breakdown. And the impact thats had on her. 
From what Ive seen, a service was completed in Ms Ts first year of cover. It was completed 
on 22 January 2017.  The service that was due in the policy year which started on 21 
November 2017 was missed. As was the one for the policy year starting on 21 November 
2018. 
BG said that theyd initially sent Ms T a first invitation to book a service on 22 February 2018. 
But received no response from her. So they sent another invitation to book the annual 
service on 8 March 2018. Both of these invitations were sent by email, to the address that 
Ms T has acknowledged she no longer had access to. BG sent a third and final reminder to 
book the service by letter on 22 March 2018. They received no reply. A similar series of 
events took place in the policy year starting 21 November 2018. Reminder emails were sent 
on 6 and 19 January 2019. And a letter was sent on 2 February 2019. 
An annual service can take place at any time during the policy year. But no service was ever 
carried out in either the 21 November 2017, or the 21 November 2018 policy year. 
Ive seen copies of all of the correspondence referenced. Ive also looked at what the terms 
and conditions say about annual services. They state:
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or call you to 
arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we dont hear back 
from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our engineer visits, we wont 
try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual service. You can still contact us at 
any time to book it. Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last 
service visit.
Based on what Ive seen, Ive no evidence that BG did anything wrong here. They contacted 
Ms T three times in each contract year, in line with the terms and conditions. I also note that 
the terms and conditions state that if a customer missed an annual service no refund is due. 
So I consider that BG did more than couldve been expected when they offered £130 as a 
goodwill gesture in respect of the annual services that werent booked. £130 is based on the 
cost of the two missed annual services. This cost is listed in the terms and conditions, under 
the cancellation charges.
I acknowledge that no service took place in the policy year starting 21 November 2019 
either. But as the policy was cancelled due to non-payment, BG were under no obligation to 
provide an annual service. In fact, had one been carried out in that policy year before the 
policy was cancelled, the terms and conditions allow BG to charge Ms T £65 for such a 
service. Ms T also considers that the premiums she paid should be refunded, given the lack of 
annual services. But I dont agree. As noted above, I dont hold BG responsible for the 
annual services not being carried out. And I also note that most of the premiums Ms T has 
paid covers the insurance part of the policy, that is the cover BG provided for example if 
the boiler had broken down while on cover. So I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable to require BG to refund the premiums Ms T paid.
Im sorry that Ms T had such a terrible time without hot water and heating. I acknowledge 
that she feels that the lack of the annual service led to the problems with the boiler. And that 
she therefore holds BG responsible for the impact those issues had on her. But Ive found no 
evidence that BG have acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I consider that their offer of £130 
as a goodwill gesture is fair under the circumstances. And I dont require them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman