DRN-4038170
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as 
Chase when he asked for help to obtain a refund.
What happened
Mr R holds an account with Chase. In December 2022, he made a payment from his account 
to a merchant which Ill call S. After hed made the payment, S contacted him to say they 
couldnt provide the service hed paid for. They told him they had issued a refund.
But Mr R didnt receive the refund, so he contacted Chase the next day and asked it to claim 
the money back. He said he needed the money within 24 hours to pay for an MOT on his 
car, which he relied on for work. Mr R said he couldnt work without the car and would lose 
money without it. He asked Chase to give him a provisional credit so that he could go ahead 
with the MOT. Chase told Mr R that his case would be reviewed by its specialist Disputes 
team, who would contact him once the case had been allocated to a handler.
Mr R called Chase again the following day. He still hadnt received a refund from S and was 
unhappy that Chase hadnt credited his account. Chase told him that the Disputes team 
would contact him once it had reviewed the case. It logged a complaint as Mr R wasnt 
happy about the time it was taking for the dispute to be processed.
Around two days later, Mr R contacted Chase again. He said he hadnt been able to pay for 
the MOT and that Chase was responsible for the income hed lost as a result. Chase said 
again that the Disputes team would contact Mr R once his case had been reviewed.
The following day, Chase told Mr R that it wasnt upholding his complaint. It said it was 
following the correct process for dealing with the disputed transaction.
On the same date, Chase asked Mr R for evidence of Ss offer of a refund. Mr R provided a 
message from S which confirmed that his booking was cancelled on 7 December. The 
message said it could take up to ten working days for the refund to appear in Mr Rs 
account. After reviewing this, Chase told Mr R that it had to allow S 15 days to honour the 
refund before raising a claim. Mr R said that Chase should credit the funds to his account 
while it waited, but Chase declined to do so.
Mr R remained unhappy about the situation and brought the complaint to this service that 
day. He said hed lost two days earnings because he hadnt been able to use his car without 
the MOT. He said that Chase didnt progress the dispute straight away and he had to spend 
a lot of time chasing it up. He would like Chase to compensate him for the loss of earnings 
as well as the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
On 15 December 2022, Mr R received the refund from S.
Our Investigator didnt think Chase had done anything wrong. But Mr R didnt agree. He said 
that Chase did nothing to help him and held up the process of him being able to get back to 
work. He also says that he couldnt buy food or groceries while he was waiting for the refund. 
He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute between a customer and a merchant, the customers bank is 
sometimes able to help the customer obtain a refund through a process called chargeback. 
Here, when Mr R called Chase and asked for help recovering his money, he was effectively 
asking Chase to raise a claim through the chargeback scheme.
Chargeback schemes are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. Theyre run by the 
card scheme (that is, the business which runs the payment network)  not the bank. 
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and a bank doesnt have to attempt 
one just because a customer asks it to. When considering a chargeback request, the bank is 
bound by the rules of the card scheme. It isnt obliged to submit a claim if it doesnt think the 
case fits within the rules, or if it thinks the claim is unlikely to succeed. In cases where the 
bank does attempt a chargeback, there is no guarantee that the money will be recovered.
Here, Chase didnt have to raise a chargeback claim. But it said it would look at the case and 
contact Mr R. I think that was reasonable. Mr R is unhappy about the time it took for the 
Disputes team to look at his case. Mr R contacted Chase on 8 December and it contacted 
him to request evidence on 12 December. Mr R wanted the case looked at within 24 hours. 
But I dont think Chase was obliged to deal with his request within that timeframe and I think 
the time it took for Chase to request the evidence was reasonable.
Mr R provided the evidence promptly and Chase contacted him upon receipt. S had said it 
would provide a refund, so Chase said it had to allow a certain number of days for this to 
happen before raising a claim. It says that, in doing this, it was following the card schemes 
rules. Im satisfied that was the case. And I find that Chase wouldnt have been able to raise 
a claim earlier, even if it had requested the evidence when Mr R first got in touch.
If Chase had raised the chargeback straight away, I dont think it would have complied with 
the card schemes rules. Also, I think S would have been able to successfully defend the 
claim because it would likely have been able to show that the refund had been processed. 
Under the rules, Chase must be able to justify any chargeback which it initiates. I dont think 
it could have done so here without waiting for the stated amount of time to pass. I wouldnt 
expect Chase to pursue a claim which it knew to have little prospect of success. So, I think it 
was reasonable that it didnt submit the claim straight away.
Mr R received the refund from S on 15 December. This was within the timescale referred to 
in Ss message and before a chargeback could have been raised under the card scheme 
rules. So, a chargeback wasnt necessary at all in the end.
But Mr R says that Chase could have helped him by crediting the funds to his account while 
it waited to see if the refund from S arrived. I understand that would have been very helpful 
to Mr R. But Chase wasnt obliged to do this and I dont think it acted unreasonably by not 
doing so. Mr R says that Chase held up the process of him getting back to work. But I think it was the 
issue with S and the MOT which did this, not Chase. I sympathise with Mr Rs situation. But 
Im only looking at the actions of Chase here, and I dont think it was Chases fault. 
I dont think Chase was responsible for Mr R being unable to buy groceries either. I think Mr 
R wouldve been in that position in any event: if S had performed the service which Mr R had 
paid for, or if hed had the refund and used it to pay for the MOT, that money wouldnt have 
been available to spend on groceries. So I dont think that issue was caused by waiting for 
the refund. But even if it was, I dont think Chase did anything wrong in respect of the refund.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman