DRN-2088299
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC continued to report adverse information on his 
credit file after it had told him it had put his account on hold and that he did not need to make 
any payments.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Barclays. In July 2019, after the account had been 
overdrawn for some time and no payments had been received, Barclays withdrew the 
overdraft facility. Mr H complained about that at the time, because the banks letters telling 
him the account was overdrawn had been sent to the wrong address, but when he brought 
that complaint to this Service it was not upheld. (I will refer to that as the first complaint.)
Also in July, Mr H spoke with Barclays on the phone and was told that the account would be 
put on hold until his complaint had been resolved. This was in case Mr H prejudiced his case 
by making any payments towards the disputed debt. It is not in dispute that that advice was 
given to him, and that he relied on it. In consequence of what he was told, Mr H made no 
payments into his account, and waited for the first complaint to be resolved.
In October 2019, Mr H discovered that Barclays had been reporting his account as in arrears 
ever since the overdraft facility had been withdrawn. He hadnt realised that would happen, 
because when he was told his account was on hold, he had thought that meant that no 
adverse data would be reported against his credit file until his first complaint was resolved 
one way or the other. He says that if he had known that his credit file would continue to be 
affected then he would have made payments into the account. (Barclays told him it could not 
set up a payment plan whilst his account was on hold, but Mr H says he would still have 
made manual payments into the account.) Mr H made a second complaint, saying that his 
credit score had diminished significantly as a result of Barclays reporting information to the 
credit reference agencies, which it would not have done if Barclays had not misled him into 
thinking it was safe not to make any payments. That is the complaint with which I am dealing 
now.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Barclays had been entitled  and 
indeed obliged  to report Mr Hs account accurately. The account had been in arrears, and 
so that was what Barclays had reported. (He also said he could not be satisfied that this 
account was the only reason Mr Hs credit score had declined.)
Mr H did not accept that opinion. He emphasised that Barclays had a duty to communicate 
clearly with its customers and to fully inform them of the consequences of following its 
advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H does not dispute that Barclays was entitled to report his arrears to the credit reference 
agencies, and he does not dispute that the information it reported was accurate. The crux of 
his complaint is that Barclays did not warn him that this would happen, and that by telling 
him his account would be placed on hold while the first complaint was ongoing, it had misled 
him into acting against his interests. He says that if he had understood that Barclays would 
report his account as in arrears, then he would have paid off the arrears and so there would 
have been no arrears to report. (He cited various FCA regulations about a lenders duty to 
communicate clearly with its customers.)
I think that Mr H is right about Barclays obligations to him as a customer, and I agree with 
him that Barclays should have given him a clearer explanation of what putting his account on 
hold meant, instead of assuming that he would know what it meant and what the 
consequences would be. However, I am not persuaded that Mr H would really have made 
the payments and cleared the arrears if Barclays had explained to him what it intended to 
do. That is because I have looked at the account statements, and they show that he didnt 
make any payments in October, when he found out that the arrears were being reported on 
his credit file, which is also the same month in which the first complaint was resolved. Nor 
did he make any payments in November, December or January, and he only paid £10 into 
his account in February. So I dont think Barclays error made any difference to what 
happened. I dont think he would have paid off the arrears between July and October.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman