DRN-3035761
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc increased his credit limit without completing
thorough affordability checks which later caused him financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr S applied for a Capital One credit card and was accepted with a £200 credit limit. This
was increased to £450 in January 2014. In November 2014 Capital One increased Mr Ss
credit limit to £1,200. Mr S complained to Capital One. He said that Capital One had
increased his credit limit without completing thorough checks and this caused him financial
difficulty.
Capital One did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that the part of his complaint which
was regarding the increase of his credit limit from £200 to £450 was made outside the time
limits for referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, based on this being raised more than
six years from the date when his credit limit was extended. So they would not be considering
this part of his complaint.
Regarding the credit limit increase from £450 to £1,200, Capital One said they checked his
credit file and the conduct of his Capital One account(s). They said there wasn't any signs of
financial distress such as recent significant arrears or recent defaults. They also said that in
the 12 months leading up to when they offered Mr S the credit limit increase, they received
the minimum payments for the account in full and on time. Capital One said that some
months they received payments greater than the minimum payment. Mr S was not satisfied
with their response so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She explained to Mr S that as agreed in
their previous emails she was unable to consider the credit limit increase from £200 to £450
as this was brought outside of the period where Mr S could complain about the event. For
the credit limit increase from £450 to £1,200, our investigator said she didnt think there was
any significant adverse information recorded on his credit data which ought to have led to
Capital One to not offer Mr S a credit limit increase. And there was no evidence to show that
he was struggling to maintain his credit limit at the time of the increase. Mr S asked for an
Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, I will only be able to consider the merits of Mr Ss complaint
regarding the credit limit increase from £450 to £1,200. This is because the part of his
complaint about the first credit limit increase - £200 to £450, was brought more than six
years of the credit limit increasing and after three years of when he ought to have known he
had reasonable grounds to complain about this event. Mr S confirmed he understood this.
Before agreeing to increase the credit available to Mr S, Capital One needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Capital One said they did prior to increasing the credit card limit.
They used information from credit agencies and saw that Mr S had unsecured debt of
£1,500 at the time of the increase. He had no active payday loans, had no defaults in the
previous 12 months and appeared to be managing his accounts in good order. Mr S had
recorded income of £25,000 so his existing outstanding borrowing and the proposed credit
limit increase to £1,200 would be a small proportion of his annual income (less than 15%).
But this is not all the credit data shows.
The information Capital One received does show that Mr S had opened 23 payday loans in
the previous 12 months. This could be an indicator that the credit limit increase may not be
affordable for Mr S if he needed to take out as many payday loans over a short period of
time. The credit data shows that in the six months prior to Mr Ss credit limit increasing he
had taken out 7 of these 23 payday loans.
So it does appear from this information that Mr S wasnt relying on payday loans as much as
the previous 6 months as he opened 16 payday loans in the previous six months to the six
months before the credit limit was increased. I would still expect Capital One to be
concerned by the number of payday loans Mr S took out. However, the credit data shows
that Mr S hadnt taken a payday loan in the previous month before they increased his limit 
or indeed the previous three months. As there were no arrears or defaults showing on his
credit file then this would suggest to Capital One that he could meet the increased minimum
payments without borrowing to do so. Mr S has been unable to obtain his credit file so I
could only assess the data which Capital One provided to me here.
Ive also looked at the payments Mr S has made after the credit limit was increased. Mr S
always made his minimum monthly payment until he suffered financial difficulties and in the
12 month period after the credit limit was increased he had paid more than the minimum
payment five times. So Im not persuaded that the increase of Mr Ss credit limit from £450 to
£1,200 in 2014 was the cause of his financial difficulties in 2017.
Im persuaded that Capital Ones checks were proportionate for the increase in his credit
limit from £450 to £1,200 for the reasons Ive already given. I know Mr S has had a difficult
time personally as of late and Ive read about his personal circumstances. I can assure him I
havent made this decision lightly. But it follows I dont intend to ask Capital One to do
anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman