DRN-1564346
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that FirstRand Bank Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
Background
In September 2018 Mr K acquired second had car costing £6,000 funded by a hire purchase 
agreement and a deposit of £600. The car was some nine years old and had done 83,193 
miles. Within two weeks he encountered problems with the car and took it back to the dealer. 
It was taken back three times and the dealer changed the Nox sensor, oil filter and oil 
bypass valve. In May 2019 the crankshaft failed and the car has not been driveable since.
Mr K says he was told by the dealer that it was entitled to three attempts to repair the car. It 
seems the crankshaft has been damaged. He had an inspection carried out and was told the 
problems most likely came from poor oil pressure. The reports states that:  Further 
investigation required to determine oil pressure data and it goes on to say a Partial strip 
down is required to access oil pressure sensor oil pressure gauge to be connected It 
concludes that an 'Engine strip down required to determine full extent of damage knocking 
noise and findings are consistent with no or low engine oil pressure. This can cause 
premature wear on crankshaft con-rod big end, main journal & thrust washer bearings
Mr K contacted FirstRand in May 2019 and it agreed to pay for the report, but it also 
commissioned its own. This was undertaken in June 2019 by which time the car had done 
88,795. The inspector noted a very heavy knocking sound coming from the engine. He 
concluded that: Taking into consideration that the repair was done some 7-months 
previously and the vehicle has covered more than 4,000-miles since the point of repair, on 
the balance of probability we would not consider the current issues to be due to failed 
previous repairs, we do not consider the issues were developing at purchase
FirstRand rejected Mr Ks complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. He noted the second 
independent engineers report didnt think the fault would have been developing at the point 
of sale. However, he said that both reports advised that further investigation was required 
and the first report said the knocking noise could be connected to the oil issue which Mr K 
had complained about shortly after the point of sale.
He didnt think it reasonable to conclude that there was an issue, but for the cause not to be 
established and for an opinion to be reached on when that first arose. He thought that the 
fact that the crankshaft failure could be linked to the engine oil raised previously would be 
grounds for FirstRand to carry out further investigations. He said the second report didnt 
comment on the possible cause of the current crankshaft fault. He concluded that Mr K 
should be allowed to reject the car.
FirstRand didnt agree and said that the report it had commissioned confirmed that the faults 
would not have been present or developing at the point of sale.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have to take into account the age and mileage of the car. It was far from new and as such it 
is expected that it will have suffered from wear and tear. However, it seems that it has 
suffered a major failure which has meant it ceased to be driveable since May 2019.
Mr K identified problems within a few weeks of collecting the car and the dealer had three 
attempts to repair it. I have noted Mr Ks claim that the dealer told him it was entitled to three 
attempts. I cannot say if this claim is true, but the law entitled the dealer to one opportunity to 
repair defective goods. In this case that one repair wasnt effective and the car had to be 
taken back three further times. I think it was open to Mr K to reject it within 30 days given the 
problems, but he didnt do so possibly due to mis-advice from the dealer. 
The car wasnt heavily used by Mr K and it has suffered a significant failure the cause of 
which hasnt been properly explained. As such I cannot see how a conclusion can be 
reached that the fault wasnt present at the point of sale. The second inspector confirmed he 
couldnt identify the cause and reached his conclusion on the fact that the car had done over 
4,000 miles since it had been sold some eight months previously. I think that is a tenuous 
conclusion and given the earlier report indicated link between the low oil pressure and the 
crankshaft failure I remain unpersuaded that this fault wasnt likely to have been present at 
the point of sale.
The job cards from the dealer show that within a short time of sale the car had low oil 
pressure amongst other issues and I think this is indicative of an early fault. So after due 
consideration I have concluded that our investigator reached a reasonable conclusion.
My decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand Limited to End the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car from Mr K
Refund all monthly payments from May 2019 until the date of settlement as Mr K has 
been without the car since then but still making monthly payments.
Refund the deposit Mr K paid plus 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr K's credit file and
Pay Mr K £150 for distress & inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman