DRN-3723029
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed his account.
Background
In February 2022, Halifax took the decision to close Mr Gs current and credit card accounts 
and it sent Mr G letters confirming that it would be doing so in two months. Mr G complained 
about Halifaxs actions. Halifax didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint about the closure of his 
accounts. But it did offer him £30 for the poor service in terms of misinformation provided in 
branch and delays in getting in contact. As Mr G remained dissatisfied, Mr G referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Mr G 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr G, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr G is unhappy 
that Halifax closed his accounts. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to close accounts and providing a customer with an 
account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And typically, as long as it 
provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr G was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that Halifax had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Gs accounts and as such its decision wasnt unfair in the 
circumstances. I realise that Halifaxs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr G and 
I can appreciate why the closure of his accounts will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Halifax it has to continue offering  
Mr G accounts in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to 
provide him with one.
Ive seen that Mr G is unhappy with the amount of compensation Halifax has offered him. 
Hes said that he was unfairly told to go to branch every time he called for help and advice 
and that hes unhappy at how long it took to return the funds left in his account. Ive thought 
about what Mr G has said. But its clear that Mr G was going into branch to credit his account 
with funds even after hed been told his current account would be closed and that his 
complaint wasnt being upheld. 
Its unclear to me why Mr G would continue doing this in these circumstances. In any event, 
as he was going into branch to make deposits and withdrawals anyway, its difficult for me to 
say that he was treated unfairly  especially as Halifax has already offered some 
compensation.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr G and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Halifax was entitled to close his accounts.
As Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, I leave it to him to decide whether he wishes to 
contact Halifax and accept its offer of £30 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman