DRN-3624323
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Unum Ltd (Unum) has declined his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr G is employed as an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and is a member of a group 
income protection policy. The policy is underwritten by Unum.
From 27 August 2020, Mr G was unwell due to an acute stress reaction and was off from 
work. His GP issued a medical certificate which signed him off from work from 1 September 
2020 until December 2020.
Mr G submitted a claim with Unum on his group income protection policy in December 2020. 
The claim was declined, it was reviewed following further information that was provided by 
Mr G. But Unum said the medical evidence didnt show Mr G couldnt carry out the duties of 
his insured occupation and also after the policy deferred period. Unum said Mr G didnt meet 
the definition of incapacity under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Unhappy with Unums response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the medical evidence is limited and 
doesnt demonstrate Mr G couldnt have undertaken the main duties of his insured role after 
the deferred period. She therefore thought Unum had acted reasonably in declining the 
claim. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
In summary Mr G said:
Hed been given medical certificates by his GP which confirmed he was unfit to work.
He didnt understand why the nurse had called him bearing in mind that hes provided 
all of the information to Unum already and felt there was a poor line of questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
My role isnt to provide a medical opinion but to decide, based on all the evidence available, 
whether the claim should have been declined, whether it was in line with the policy terms 
and conditions and whether Mr G has been treated fairly and reasonably.
Additionally, I appreciate Mr G feels strongly about how the claim has been assessed. 
So, Id like to reassure him that I have read all his submissions. And although I wont be 
responding to each and every point, Im not in any way demeaning his responses and 
submissions.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. I can see that the 
deferred period on his policy is 13 weeks. Mr G has insured occupation cover on his policy. 
The definition od incapacity in the policy terms and conditions is stated as:
Insured occupation cover
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and 
substantial duties of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation
If the member is required by the terms governing the employment relationship to hold 
a licence or certificate which is issued only when the member meets required medical 
standards, we must also be satisfied that they are unable, by reason of their illness or 
injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of any gainful occupation with 
any employer for which they are reasonably fitted by reason or training, education or 
experience. 
The term licence does not include a licence to drive ordinary care, vans or 
motorcycles.
Based on the above, for a benefit to be paid under the policy, the member must be unable to 
work because of illness, or injury. Mr G has insured occupation cover and if he is to meet the 
definition of incapacity under this level of cover, he must show that hes unable to perform 
the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of injury or illness. 
Benefit under the policy becomes payable after the deferred period of 13 weeks. I note the 
deferred period was from 27 August 2020 to 26 November 2020.
Ive carefully considered the medical evidence that Mr G has provided. Ive summarised the 
timeline of what happened from when Mr G was first unwell to work:
On 3 September 2020, Mr G went to see his GP. He was stressed and was feeling 
anxious. Mr G was signed off work for three months for acute reaction for stress. The 
GP noted that this was not a lifelong issue or that a diagnosis of anxiety or 
depression would be appropriate. 
On 3 November 2020 (after Mr G submitted his claim to Unum) a specialist nurse 
telephoned Mr G. He confirmed that he felt a little better, but his symptoms remained 
the same. He was no longer taking medication, had minimal contact with work and 
hadnt reached out for any therapy or occupational health services.
On 11 November 2020, he said to another GP that he had ongoing work-related 
stress.
On 2 December 2020, Mr G had a telephone call with his GP. The notes say that Mr 
G has ongoing stress at work and not been resolved. Hes keen to get to work but 
had limited contact with work. He hadnt considered his route back to work or 
whether he might leave. Medical certificates were issued which signed him work in December 2020 and then from January 2021 to March 2021. The reason on both 
was due to acute reaction to stress. 
Mr Gs medical records combined with the notes made by the specialist nurse show that he 
was signed off work with stress. It isnt in dispute that Mr G was suffering with work-related 
stress. I understand that he was going through a difficult time. However, under the policy 
terms and conditions, in order for the benefit to be paid, the evidence would need to show 
that Mr G was incapacitated throughout the deferred period and beyond. Having considered 
everything thats been provided, although Mr G was signed off work, theres nothing to 
suggest that he wasnt able to perform the duties of his role throughout the period. He had 
blood tests, his medication was only for a limited and as he reported issues with his heart, 
his blood pressure was monitored. Nothing further came about as a result of these tests and 
I cant see that he was referred for specialist treatment or the symptoms were being actively 
managed. I understand Mr G reported stress related symptoms due to the situation at work 
but theres no evidence of how this was actively being managed or further concerns being 
raised by medical professionals. In absence of this, theres not enough evidence to support 
Mr G was incapacitated as required under the policy terms. 
I appreciate the medical certificates signing Mr G off from work were provided by a GP who 
was indeed a medical professional. However, over time, further tests and specialist referral 
would be expected if Mr Gs health symptoms required this. We have the medical certificates 
and notes from both the GP records and the nurse. None of these indicate further 
investigation was carried out and therefore I cant safely say that Mr G met the definition of 
incapacity under the terms of the policy. 
The specialist nurse telephoned Mr G because a further review of the claim was being 
considered. So, while I appreciate that Mr G thought this wasnt necessary as hed provided 
everything to Unum already, it isnt unusual, for a medically trained person to carry out an 
assessment on claims such as this.
I do have every sympathy for the difficult time Mr G had with his illness. But the evidence 
overall isnt, on balance, enough to meet the policy definition of incapacity for the claim to be 
accepted. Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably make Unum responsible for a 
claim when the evidence provided doesnt meet this definition. Im therefore not persuaded 
the claim has been declined outside of the terms and conditions of the policy or that Mr G 
has been treated unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Unum to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Unum Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman