DRN-3216528
The complaint
Miss M complains that IGO4 Partners Limited trading as WiseDriving (IGO4) unfairly 
increased the premium on her car insurance.
Miss M is represented in this complaint by a relative, referred to in my decision as Ms L. 
However, for simplicity Ill mainly refer to Miss M in my decision.
What happened
Miss M bought a car insurance policy using a price comparison website in April 2021. The 
policy was bought through an insurance intermediary, IGO4. On her online policy 
application, Miss M said she had one year No Claim Discount (NCD).
The policy was incepted and IGO4 asked Miss M to provide evidence of her NCD. She didnt 
do this so IGO4 removed the NCD from her policy. This increased her annual premium by 
£272, including a £35 administration fee.
Ms L, acting on behalf of Miss M, complained to IGO4. She said shed asked IGO4 how to 
answer the NCD question before Miss M took out the policy. Miss M had been a named 
driver on Ms Ls policy, and she wasnt sure whether this could be counted towards her own 
NCD. Ms L says IGO4 told her to enter one year NCD. 
IGO4 said it found no evidence it told Miss M to say she had one year NCD. It explained that 
Miss M hadnt provide proof of her NCD, so it adjusted her premium. Miss M was unhappy 
with this and cancelled the policy. IGO4 calculated an outstanding balance on the policy and 
asked Miss M to pay this.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She insists that IGO4 told her to enter one year 
NCD. She also disagrees that she owes IGO4 anything.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt find 
any evidence that the NCD had been discussed before Miss M took out the policy. He was 
satisfied that IGO4 had asked for proof of her NCD and told Miss M that her premium would 
be increased if she failed to provide this. Finally, he was satisfied that IGO4 had calculated 
the outstanding charges on Miss Ms policy correctly. For these reasons, he didnt think 
IGO4 had acted unfairly.
Miss M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L is clear that IGO4 told her Miss M should claim one year NCD when she was setting up 
the policy. IGO4 has provided recordings of two call with Ms L before Miss Ms premium was 
increased in May 2021. Ive listened to these calls:
7 April 2021. Ms L called IGO4 while Miss M was setting up the policy. She asked its 
agent a question about her licence category as she would be a named driver on the 
policy. She also asked whether she could collect the car before the insurers black 
box had been fitted. Miss Ms NCD wasnt discussed.
28 April 2021. Ms L called IGO4 after Miss M received a letter about the black box. 
During the call, IGO4s agent told Ms L that Miss M still needed to provide proof of 
her NCD. Ms L said: OK  proof of no claims. And how do we do we get that from 
the previous insurance company? The IGO4 agent told her that was correct. Ms L 
replied: Right, ok thats something Ive got to do then. 
Miss M didnt send this, so IGO4 removed the NCD from her policy and increased her 
premium.
I found no evidence that IGO4 gave Miss M incorrect information about the NCD. Im 
satisfied that IGO4 didnt discuss this with Ms L before Miss M took out the policy. I think 
there are two possibilities: either Ms L is mistaken in her recollection of her conversation with 
IGO4; or IGO4 didnt record the call where the NCD was discussed. 
On balance, I think its likely to be the former. There was no discussion about the NCD 
during the call on 7 April, when Ms L asked questions about how to answer certain questions 
on Miss Ms policy application. I think its unlikely Ms L would have made two separate calls 
to IGO4 about this, so I dont think theres a missing recording. Also, during the 7 April call 
Ms L told the IGO4 agent that shed spoken to many insurance companies that day. I think 
its possible Ms L might have discussed the NCD with one of these other insurers, not IGO4. 
More importantly, Im satisfied that IGO4 told both Miss M and Ms L that Miss M needed to 
provide evidence of her NCD. For example:
Welcome email, 7 April 2021: If you haven't already uploaded your proof of No 
Claims Discount, you need to pass it onto us by uploading a scan or photo of it on 
our online portal.
Reminder email, 21 April 2021. Now that your WiseDriving device is fitted, we just 
need to see a copy of the proof of your no claims discount from your last insurer.
Phone call with Ms L, 28 April 2021.
Reminder email 29 April 2021. If we don't receive proof of your no-claims discount, 
your discount will be removed, which means there will be an additional charge to pay 
for your policy.
Page 21 of the policy booklet says IGO4 can cancel the policy if a policyholder doesnt 
provide proof of NCD. The 29 April email also set out the increase to Miss Ms premium if 
she didnt provide this. 
Ms L told IGO4 that she sometimes had problems receiving emails. However, Im satisfied 
that IGO4 has shown that these emails were sent to Miss M. Im also satisfied that IGO4 told 
Ms L about the need to provide proof of Miss Ms NCD during the 28 April call. I think if Ms L 
had any questions about this  or doubts about what she believed IGO4 had previously told 
her  she might reasonably have raised them during this call.
Ms L told us neither she nor Miss M read the policy paperwork. Instead, Ms L relied on what 
she thought IGO4 had told her. As Ive explained, Im happy that IGO4 didnt tell Miss M to 
say she had one years NCD. And Im afraid I dont accept that not reading the policy 
documents is a reasonable excuse for not meeting its terms.Finally, Ive reviewed the outstanding balance that IGO4 says Miss M owes and Im satisfied 
that its correct. 
I know Ms L feels very strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. But I 
cant see that IGO4 has done anything wrong here. I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman