DRN-3352416
The complaint
Mr G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) increased the 
premium for his motor insurance policy at renewal after the end of the pandemic lockdown. 
What happened
Mr G had been with LV for four years. At his 2020 renewal he found that LV had increased 
his premium by about 17%. Mr G thought this was unfair as he had used his car less during 
the lockdown. He thought he should be treated as a loyal customer. And so he declined LVs 
reduced offers for renewal as he found cheaper cover elsewhere. Mr G felt that hed been 
caused the trouble and inconvenience of finding cover elsewhere. LV said it had taken 
multiple factors into account when generating his premium, but it wasnt at liberty to disclose 
these. 
Our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought the 
price increases were due to changes in Mr Gs circumstances. And they thought LV had 
shown that it would have priced the policy in the same way for any other consumer. They 
didnt think LV had taken advantage of Mr Gs loyalty or treated him unfairly.
Mr G replied that he thought LV was guilty of sharp and unfair pricing practices against 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G is aware, were not the regulator. Thats the role of the FCA. Our role is to mediate 
between consumers and businesses in regard to complaints to ensure that consumers are 
treated fairly. Mr G has referred to new regulations introduced by the FCA. But the rules 
around pricing were not enforceable when he renewed his policy. So Ive considered 
whether LV treated Mr G fairly and reasonably and the same as any other consumer in his 
particular circumstances.
I can see that Mr Gs premium increased by differing amounts each year since 2016. The 
biggest increases were in his second year with LV, when I think the premium may have been 
without the introductory discount, and in the fourth year when Mr G changed his car. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. LV has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how 
Mr Gs price increases were calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. 
And our Investigators have shared the reasons for the increases with Mr G. Im satisfied the 
price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and all of LVs customers in his 
position will have been charged a similar premium
Mr G thought reduced car use due to the pandemic should have reduced his premium last 
year. I can see that Mr G didnt want to make any changes to his annual mileage when he 
called LV to discuss its renewal quote. It offered him a reduction in premium to reflect low 
usage, but Mr G decided to go elsewhere for his cover. 
So Im satisfied that LV has explained why the price for Mr Gs cover increased over time, 
and I can see that it applied the same criteria to other consumers.
Ive also looked to see if the increases were linked to the level of engagement Mr G had with 
LV at renewal. And I cant see evidence that this affected his premium increases. So I think 
LV treated Mr G fairly and reasonably, and the same as any other consumer, when it 
increased his premium. 
LVs last renewal letter advised Mr G to shop around for cheaper cover as hed been with it 
for some time. I think that was fair and reasonable and in keeping with FCA regulations. As it 
was, Mr G had already shopped around and found cheaper cover elsewhere. So I cant say 
that LV caused Mr G any financial loss that requires redress.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman