DRN-2975180
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) incorrectly charged him a fee on his current 
account. He also complains about the service hes received from TSB while complaining to 
them.
What happened
Mr G holds an account with TSB. In February 2021 he noted a £3 fee deducted from his 
account called Return item fee.
Mr G contacted TSB to enquire about the fee as he feels he was incorrectly charged. He 
says he was unhappy with how long TSB were taking to give him an answer, so he 
requested to have his enquiry escalated to a complaint. His call was transferred to another 
representative and TSB initially offered £15 as compensation. Mr G says the £15 
compensation was later increased to £25. Mr G says they also offered to cover any call 
charges. After a call lasting over an hour, Mr G declined TSBs offer and a complaint was 
logged for him.
The following day, Mr G says he received a call from TSB. In that call TSB explained to him 
that he was charged a fee due to an unpaid standing order for £1,500. TSB say they made 
several attempts to pay the standing order on the given date, but Mr G didnt have enough 
funds in his account. TSB say that as Mr G is registered for paperless communication, he 
would have been informed of this through his internet banking portal.
TSB also told Mr G that they were withdrawing the compensation offer they had made Mr G, 
but were still happy to cover the cost of the call he made. They say that the representative 
who offered the compensation had done so by only considering Mr Gs version of events. 
But following a review and by listening to the specific call, TSB believe Mr G didnt give the 
representatives enough time to investigate his enquiry and they could have resolved his 
concerns much sooner had he done so.
A few days later, Mr G submitted a complaint online following the phone call he received 
from TSB. Mr G didnt receive a response to his online complaint, so called TSB and was 
advised that they had already given him their final response on the matter.
Mr G says he hadnt received anything in writing, so called TSB again a few days later and 
complained. He eventually did receive a letter, but he says it didnt reference the further 
times he complained about the service hed received.
Mr G believes TSB hasnt followed its own complaints procedure and so brought his 
complaint to our service. He would like TSB to make the necessary changes to allow 
customers to make a complaint without having to spend a large amount of time or cost doing 
so. He also believes the offer made by TSB to resolve the matter should correctly reflect the 
additional time and cost in following up on his initial complaint.
TSB in their submissions to us say that their offer to refund the call cost is still available to Mr 
G. His final response letter says for him to call the number provided to inform TSB of any 
costs. They also say that, while they are not obliged to refund charges unless they have 
been applied in error, they have still agreed to on this occasion as a gesture of goodwill.
The investigator found that TSB had correctly applied the £3 fee and that Mr G had been 
correctly notified of the charge. She also found that from listening to the call Mr G made to 
TSB, they had offered to refund the fee early in the call. But as Mr G wished to escalate the 
matter further, the call and subsequent communication between them lasted longer. The 
investigator felt TSBs offer of refunding Mr Gs call cost was enough to resolve the 
complaint. There were also aspects of Mr Gs complaint that the investigator couldnt 
consider as it wasnt in her remit to do so.
Mr G, unhappy with the investigators findings requested the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. And so, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer TSB has made to Mr G is fair and Ill explain why below.
Mr G is a customer of TSBs and would have agreed to their terms and conditions when he 
opened his account. Details of bank charges Mr G might incur if the terms of his account 
arent followed would have also been provided to him. These documents are also available 
online on TSBs website. 
Mr G was charged a Return item fee of £3 and this is normally charged when a customer 
doesnt have enough money in their account to make certain payments, like a standing 
order. To avoid customers paying fees on standing orders, TSB usually try to take a 
payment at three different times on the due date and shortly after midnight on the following 
day, to give customers extra time to place sufficient funds in their account. The fee wont be 
charged if the payment can be made successfully on one of those attempts.
Im satisfied Mr G didnt have enough funds in his account at the times TSB should have 
attempted to take payment. I say this because I have seen Mr Gs account activity during 
December 2020. I can see that his account was credited with £1,500 on 23 December 2020. 
But TSB has told me that a standing order of the same amount was due to be paid from Mr 
Gs account the day prior, on 22 December 2020. As TSBs terms suggest, the final attempt 
to take payment is shortly after midnight on the following day. At this time, Mr G didnt have 
enough funds in his account because the money he received on 23 December 2020 was 
later than when TSB would have tried to take payment on their fourth and final attempt. 
Because of this, TSB charged Mr G a £3 Return item fee.
Mr G is registered for paperless correspondence with TSB. So, any letters or monthly bank 
statements sent to him would need to be accessed through his banking portal. TSB sent Mr 
G a letter explaining there was an attempt to pay his standing order payment in December 
2020. And I can see Mr G would have received in January 2021 his monthly bank statement 
which informed him that hell be charged a fee. Mr G acknowledged receiving the letter to 
TSB and I havent seen anything to suggest that he wouldnt have received the bank 
statement through his bank portal. 
So, Im satisfied TSB correctly charged and communicated to Mr G that a fee was payable.
Mr G has also commented on the service hes received from TSB. He believes he should be 
compensated fairly for the customer service he experienced. Following a review, TSB has offered to cover the cost of the initial call Mr G made and they have already refunded the £3 
fee as a gesture of goodwill.
I have listened to the call Mr G made to TSB. Mr G says he was on hold to them for around 
ten minutes. Then early on and within ten minutes of him speaking to someone, he 
requested to have his call escalated to a formal complaint as he was unhappy with how long 
the representative was taking to answer his enquiry. During that conversation, the TSB 
representative had already offered to refund the charged fee.
I think being on hold for around ten minutes is an acceptable amount of time. And I 
appreciate it can be frustrating waiting on a call to receive an answer to an enquiry made, 
but I think its understandable that, it would take TSB a few moments to review their internal 
records and familiarise themselves with the necessary details. The representative was trying 
to ask further questions to help Mr G, but he wanted to be transferred to a complaint handing 
team early on.
Both TSB representatives Mr G spoke to when he called also tried to explain that he had the 
option to submit a complaint or enquiry online, but Mr G didnt believe it was possible. On 
occasions, Mr G interrupted them when they were trying to explain how to go about making 
a complaint online, which contributed to a longer call. I can also see that Mr G was able to 
make an online complaint in the following days. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Gs call with TSB lasted over an hour as he wanted to raise a 
formal complaint, I dont think the call needed to last as long, had Mr G allowed TSB time to 
investigate his enquiry. TSB tried to resolve the matter as quickly as they could and offered 
Mr G other alternatives to raise his complaint if he felt he was waiting too long. They have 
also refunded the £3 fee as a gesture of goodwill, when, as Ive already explained, I dont 
think Mr G was incorrectly charged for it.
I have noted that Mr G was on hold for long time on occasions during his initial call. TSB has 
offered to cover the cost of the call Mr G initially made in relation to his complaint. I think this 
is a fair way to resolve the matter.
Mr G would like our service to also consider the additional time and cost in following up on 
his initial complaint. But I cant say TSB has offered poor service on this occasion. I think if 
Mr G had allowed TSB time to resolve his enquiry over the initial call, I think it could have 
been sorted much sooner. So, I cant hold TSB accountable for the service theyve provided 
here.
There are aspects to Mr Gs complaint which I am not able to comment on. How TSB 
conduct their complaint handling process isnt something I can review as we are not a 
regulatory body.
Putting things right
TSB Bank should reimburse Mr G for the cost of his initial call if he provides evidence of this.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc has already made an offer to pay for Mr Gs initial call cost in relation to this 
complaint as settlement. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr G the cost of his initial call to them.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman