DRN-1503477
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complaint about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them following its 
decision to change investment platforms.   
 
What happened
Since 1993, Mr and Mrs G have had a share dealing account with the Woolwich Building 
Society until it was taken over by Barclays. In December 2015, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs 
G to explain that it was migrating their account to a new platform. 
Because Barclays couldnt provide full access to its services, it didnt charge Mr and Mrs G 
for the new platform. So, despite the change the investment operated as it had since before 
Barclays took over. 
In April 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say that theyd soon have full access to the 
platform, and because of this it would start to charge the monthly fees from July 2019 
onwards that it had thus far waived. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy about the charges being brought in because traditionally they 
didnt pay any fees. They said they had no intention of using any of the new functions 
brought in by Barclays as they dont actively trade on their account and have had the 
investments since 1993 which they only added to it in 1994 and 1995. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to Barclays, but unhappy with its response they decided to move 
their investment and in due course refer the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes not persuaded that Barclays has done anything wrong. 
In 2015, Barclays notified Mr and Mrs G about changes to the investment platform. 
It didnt charge them immediately because all its services werent available.
In 2019  when the platform was ready for use  it notified Mr and Mrs G that itd 
start charging the monthly fees. 
Despite how Mr and Mrs G felt about the changes, Barclays is free to run its own 
business including the services it provides and the fees it charges.
As this was a significant change, Mr and Mrs G were notified and given sufficient 
time (six weeks) to decide if they wanted to move their investment elsewhere. 
Because Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the changes (and the charges) they 
decided to transfer to another provider. Barclays facilitated this without any cost to 
them.
Even though the transfer didnt complete until after Barclays started charging the 
monthly fees, it waived the July fees. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators conclusion. They feel that a leaflet they 
received from Barclays  regarding the fees and charges  should apply to their investment, 
because the leaflet suggests that the service theyve received will stay the same. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
He doesnt dispute that the leaflet referred to the new Smart Investor platform, but 
the information contained was in relation to the ring-fencing of Barclays retail 
investment business as explained to them. 
The leaflet was marked as Smart Investor because Barclays was talking about it in 
relation to the ring-fencing work. This information is separate to the fees that 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G about. 
Barclays isnt obliged to provide the same service without charging a fee just 
because Mr and Mrs G misunderstood the information.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs G say, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs G and Barclays, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G are very unhappy about the changes brought in by Barclays 
but Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays was wrong to do this.  
Despite what Mr and Mrs G say, Barclays wasnt obliged to continue to operate their account 
in the way that it had been since it was set up in 1999. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they 
were given any guarantees that it would. As a financial business thats taken over the administration of Mr and Mrs Gs investment, 
Barclays is within its rights to do things differently including offering new services and 
charging for them. 
In other words, Barclays is entitled to run its own business within the reasonable exercise of 
its legitimate commercial judgement rather than to continue in the way that Mr and Mrs G 
were used to. Its not for us to tell Barclays how to run its business. 
Given the nature of the changes, Barclays was obliged to notify Mr and Mrs G, which Im 
satisfied it did in good time. However, Barclays didnt need their consent before bringing in 
these changes. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were given a reasonable amount of time to decide  if they 
were unhappy with the changes  whether (or not) they wished to continue with Barclays or 
go elsewhere. 
I appreciate that they had no use for much of the new functions as they didnt actively trade 
on the platform, and thats probably why they ultimately decided to leave Barclays as theyd 
be paying for a service that they had no use for.  
I note Mr and Mrs G were first notified of the changes (including the future introduction of 
charges) in 2015. I note that in April 2019  closer to the time  they were again given 
roughly six weeks notice before the charges would start. Im therefore satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs G had sufficient time to decide what they wanted to do.
Im mindful that because they chose to leave, Barclays helped facilitate this transfer without 
any cost to them. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Barclays 
treated Mr and Mrs G reasonably throughout this process. 
I note that there was some information provided that Barclays accepts couldve been clearer. 
In the circumstances I think £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused is fair and 
reasonable. But just because Mr and Mrs G might interpret information incorrectly doesnt 
mean that Barclays had to deliver on that interpretation. Regardless of this additional 
information I think Barclays had generally made its position clear.  
Notwithstanding the above, I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be thoroughly unhappy Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they 
want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask Barclays to do 
anything other than to pay the redress it has already offered.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs G what they want.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the offer made by 
Barclays is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman