DRN-3112522
The complaint
Miss W complains about the advice Portafina Investment Management Limited gave in 
relation to her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, which was transferred to 
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Miss W to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Miss Ws.
What happened
In 2018 Miss W contacted a national free advice service about discussing the possibility of 
releasing tax free cash (TFC) from her employers previous DB pension scheme when she 
turned 55 the following year. The national advice service referred Miss W to Portafina.
Portafina completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ws circumstances and 
objectives. It found that Miss W:
Was 54, single and wanted to release TFC from her pension early.
Shed been a member of her employers former DB scheme until 2015 but had left 
that scheme and now paid into her employers defined contributions scheme (a 
different sort of pension plan that doesn't give a guaranteed income), Miss W paid 
7% of her salary into that scheme which her employer matched.
The lease on her car was ending in August 2019 and she wanted to buy and own a 
new car.
She wanted the ability for her children to be able to drawdown the remaining funds 
from her pension in the event of her death.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her DB scheme fund stood at 
£79,036.19.
Portafina also carried out an assessment of Miss Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderately cautious. It also produced a pension transfer value analysis report which 
included cashflow models comparing how an alternative pension plan was likely to perform 
against the guaranteed benefits of her DB scheme.
On 12 October 2018, Portafina wrote to Miss W. It said its recommendation was that she 
should not transfer away from her DB scheme. It said that was because a new pension plan 
was unlikely to grow at the required rate to match the benefits of her existing DB scheme 
and she would lose guaranteed benefits. 
Portafinas letter went on to say that if she wanted to go ahead with the transfer, against its 
advice, that would be something it could help her with. But in order to arrange that it would 
treat her as an insistent client. It said that the options it referred to later in its letter would 
apply once Miss W reached her 55th birthday the next year. It included an options form which 
gave Miss W two choices:
To disregard Portafinas advice and continue with the transfer from the DB scheme 
as an insistent client.
To accept its recommendation and remain in her employers DB scheme.
The letter asked Miss W to tick the box next to her preferred choice. The box next to the first 
option  not to accept Portafinas advice  said:
I understand your recommendation to leave my [employers DB] Pension scheme where it 
is. However, I want you to continue reviewing my pension, setting up a flexi-access 
drawdown plan so that I can release £19,759 tax-free cash and reinvest the remaining 
£59,277.
The letter said that if Miss W chose the first option she would also need to sign the 
appended insistent client form. The form set out that Miss W understood that:
The proposed pension plan for her reinvested pension fund was unlikely to grow at 
the rate required of 5.20%. 
The critical yield (the investment return required to match the existing DB returns) 
was 9.3% based on Miss W taking a TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension.
She would be giving up the option of taking a reduced guaranteed income of £1,993 
a year and a tax free sum of £13,290 when she reached the DB schemes normal 
retirement age of 65.
If she didnt take the tax free lump sum her DB scheme would allow her to take a full 
pension of £3,213 a year, when she reached 65. A new pension plan would require a 
critical yield of 11.2% a year in order to match that.
If she transferred out of the DB scheme to a new plan, she could take £19,759 TFC 
immediately and invest the remaining funds until her current scheme retirement age 
of 65. And that a new pension could give her an annual income of £2,900 from age 
65, in the form of an annuity.
By disregarding Portafinas recommendation not to transfer out of the DB scheme 
and instructing it to continue with the transfer, she was an insistent client.
The insistent client form also asked Miss W to explain in her own words why she wanted to 
go against Portafinas recommendation and continue with the transfer from her DB scheme.
Five days later (17 October 2018) Miss W returned the options and insistent client forms. 
She said she wanted to continue with the transfer. She wrote that her reasons for doing so 
were because her car lease ran out the following year. She couldnt afford to make the 
balloon payment to own the car outright when her lease came to an end and she didnt 
want to take a new lease or finance to buy a new car. So she wanted to take her TFC in 
order to buy a new car. She said she was currently paying £235 a month for her car lease. 
She said if she stopped paying that she could put that money towards her savings and 
increase her contributions to her current employer's pension scheme. 
After Miss W returned those forms Portafina called her. It asked her if she was aware of the 
benefits that she would be giving up by transferring out of her DB scheme. Miss W said that 
she was. She said that this was something shed thought about carefully and discussed with 
her son and a colleague and that she hadn't taken the decision lightly. She said she 
understood that Portafinas advice was that shed be better off leaving her pension where it 
was. She added that by transferring out of the DB scheme and buying her own car she 
would be a little bit better off, and repeated that she could increase her contributions to her 
current employers scheme and add to her savings. On 31 October 2018 Portafina sent Miss W a pension transfer suitability report. Amongst 
other things it said it strongly advised that she should not transfer funds out of her DB 
scheme. But it also said that  on an insistent client basis  it was recommending that she 
reinvest her pension funds into a SIPP from which she could access TFC from her 55th 
birthday. It said her current objective was:
My car is a lease car of which Im paying £235 per month which is never going to be mine. If 
I buy my own car, I will have a saving of £235
The suitability report went through some of the things Miss W would be giving up by 
transferring out of the DB scheme. It said that to replace her current scheme benefits with a 
comparable income from an insurer (what's known as a transfer value comparator) would 
cost her £170,493. That meant that the same retirement income could cost her an additional 
£91,443 more by transferring out of the DB scheme. 
The report said that while its advice was that Miss W should not transfer out of the DB 
scheme it could arrange that for her on an insistent client basis. It recommended a SIPP to 
her which it said matched her attitude to risk. Portafinas fees came to £5,242.17 for doing 
that. It said it would take £2,080.72 at the point of transferring and the remaining £3,161.45 
once Miss W had received her TFC. It said that the total running costs, including Portafinas 
ongoing management fee, of her invested funds would be 1.88% of that fund each year.
On 14 November 2018 Miss W confirmed that she wanted to go ahead with the transfer and 
Portafina arranged that for her.
Miss W complained in 2020 to Portafina about the suitability of the transfer advice because, 
amongst other things:
it hadnt advised her of the benefits she would lose by transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
Its suitability report was confusing as it said that Portafina recommended that she 
shouldnt transfer out of her DB scheme but also made a recommendation to transfer 
to a SIPP.
It didnt highlight that the recommended SIPP would have to perform particularly well 
in order to meet the benefits of her DB scheme.
Owing to the accessibility of the SIPP Miss W is at risk of drawing out too much cash 
and leaving herself with too little income in retirement.
It was unclear if Miss W had the option of accessing her pension without transferring 
from the DB scheme. 
Portafina didnt stress that transferring was not in Miss Ws best interests.
The DB scheme had guaranteed death benefits for Miss Ws beneficiary which were 
lost.
It was very unlikely the critical yield of 9.3% would be met.
Miss W couldnt remember discussing her attitude to risk with Portafina. 
Miss Ws DB scheme didnt require her to pay fees but the SIPP did. 
Portafina acted negligently as Miss W lost the inflation proofing of her DB scheme.
Portafina should have explored alternatives in order to meet Miss Ws objectives.
Portafina didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. It said, amongst other things:
It had clearly advised Miss W not to transfer out of her DB scheme outlining the risks 
and benefits she would lose by doing so.Miss W had confirmed she was aware the SIPP was unlikely to achieve the growth 
rate to match her existing scheme and that Portafina's recommendation was not to 
transfer. 
By going against Portafinas advice it treated her as an insistent client and had 
explained why.
Its suitability report explained the applicable charges. 
It had asked Miss W questions about her attitude to risk and deemed her to be a 
moderately cautious investor, which she had confirmed she agreed with.
The funds her new plan invested in were not high risk investments and matched her 
attitude to risk.
It had clearly warned Miss W about the guarantees and benefits she would be losing 
and acted in Miss Ws best interest by recommending that she should not transfer out 
of the DB scheme. 
Miss W referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld it and required Portafina 
to pay compensation. She said that access to TFC for Miss W wasnt worth sacrificing the 
valuable benefits of her DB scheme for, especially as Miss W already had a car. The 
investigator hadn't seen evidence that Portafina explored alternative options. Portafina found 
that Miss W was a moderately cautious investor but that transferring out of the DB scheme 
came with risks. There was no guarantee of income by transferring into the new plan as it 
would be subject to investment risk and the new plan was unlikely to grow at a sufficient 
rate. The investigator added that she didnt believe that Miss W was truly an insistent client. 
Portafina disagreed, it said it had advised Miss W against transferring out of the DB scheme. 
Miss W was not obliged to sign agreement with the insistent client process. Shed said in her 
own words why she wanted to go ahead with that transfer and this was in accordance with 
the regulators guidance. It had also phoned Miss W to make sure she understood the 
benefits she would be giving up and that she was happy to proceed. It was fully compliant 
with the insistent client process. Portafina had discussed with Miss W alternatives to taking 
TFC and that further discussions would not have altered Miss Ws decision to go ahead with 
the transfer. It concluded that it believed Miss W would have tried to access her TFC early 
with or without its involvement. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss W and Portafina have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying 
to it. And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at 
the heart of Miss Ws complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator.The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. In this case Portafina considered Miss Ws circumstances, her attitude to risk, 
her objectives and transfer value analysis report which indicated that if Miss W transferred 
out of the DB scheme she was unlikely to be better off than if she remained in it. And it 
advised Miss W against making the transfer. But it said it could arrange that for her on an 
insistent client basis.
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Did Portafina fairly treat Miss W as an insistent client?
Portafina said that, as Miss W wanted to go against its advice and transfer out of the DB 
scheme it treated her as an insistent client and was fully compliant with the FCAs guidance 
when doing so. 
Ive looked carefully at Portafinas decision to treat Miss W as insistent, particularly in 
respect of the regulators position, to see whether I think Portafina acted fairly.
Portafinas recommendation, both in its letter of 12 October 2018 and in its later suitability 
report was that Miss W should not transfer out of her DB scheme. But its 12 October letter 
went on to say that Miss W could transfer out of the scheme if she wanted to and that it 
could help her to do that. 
Portafina presented the possibility of transferring out of the scheme on an insistent client 
basis, alongside the recommendation not to transfer. But I think this made it far too easy for 
Miss W to simply decide that it was a suitable alternative to staying in the scheme, when 
Portafina was aware that a decision to transfer out of the DB scheme was not in her best 
interests. Had it not given her that option at that time, then it would have placed the onus on Miss W to contact Portafina again to find out what she needed to do if she did genuinely 
insist on going against Portafinas recommendations and intended to transfer out of the 
scheme.
Further Portafina didn't produce its suitability report until after Miss W had told it she wanted 
to be treated as an insistent client. But its letter of 12 October 2018 told her that by 
transferring out of the scheme she could enjoy a TFC sum of £ £19,759 immediately 
(actually at age 55) and she could reinvest the remaining pension pot of £59,277. Similarly 
the enclosed insistent client form summarised both the benefits she could expect to lose but 
also what she could possibly gain from transferring out of the DB scheme. But it presented 
that information to her in a raw state, that is without the analysis contained within its 
suitability and transfer value reports. I find that this undermined the process. That's because 
I don't see how Portafina could expect Miss W to make an informed decision about going 
against its recommendation when it hadn't given her all the information she needed in order 
to make that decision. That is, it gave her some bare-bones information and expected her to 
make a determination that could start her down the road of the insistent client process 
without giving her enough details to reasonably make that decision.
Also I've seen that the insistent client form says that, if Miss W did not take TFC at age 65 
then she could expect to receive a pre-tax annual income of £3,213 from the DB scheme. 
The form then went on to say:
In comparison I understand that if I transfer my [existing DB] Pension plan to a new plan, 
take £19,759 tax-free cash immediately and invest the remaining money until my current 
scheme retirement age of 65, my pension could give me an annual income of £2,900, in the 
form of an annuity, when I reach this age.
So the insistent client form indicated that Miss W could take her TFC lump sum immediately 
 although this would actually be from her 55th birthday  and also receive an annuity income 
of £313 a year less than her DB scheme from age 65. I can understand why Miss W would 
have considered that to be a mouth-watering prospect. That would give her access to a 
handsome lump sum approaching £20,000 at her next birthday together with the possibility 
of only a relatively small reduction in her annual retirement income from age 65. The 
comparator, of £3,213 a year, was some ten years away and wouldnt have paid any lump 
sum at all. I think that would be an enticing prospect for most people which might well cause 
them to consider going against Portafinas advice.
But I don't know where Portafina got the £2,900 a year annuity figure from. The transfer 
value analysis report which I've seen contains cashflow projections about how much Miss W 
might expect to receive if she transferred out of the DB scheme and bought an annuity. But, 
unless theres a second report which I havent seen, the figures in the transfer value report 
dont say anywhere that Miss W could expect to receive an annuity income of £2,900. 
Instead, it says that she could expect a pre-tax annuity income of £1,460 if the plans growth 
rate was low, rising to £2,352 if its growth rate was medium, increasing again to £3,717 if the 
return was high. So I can't find a figure of £2,900 anywhere within the analysis report. And 
given that Portafina considered Miss W a moderately cautious investor, a return at the 
highest rate seemed very unlikely  in fact, it was likely to be closer to the lowest rate. 
Further, those sums would drop even further once factoring in a reduction for Miss W taking 
her TFC from the pot at age 55. So the figures in the transfer value report paint a 
significantly more difficult financial picture if Miss W transferred out of the DB scheme and 
bought an annuity, to the sums contained in the insistent client form. 
Ive noted that Portafina spoke with Miss W to confirm she knew what benefits she was 
giving up by acting as an insistent client and transferring out of her DB scheme. And when 
Portafina reminded her of what those were during the call Miss W said that the figures were familiar to her. She said shed thought carefully about what she was doing, had discussed it 
with her adult son and a colleague and hadn't taken the decision lightly. She also explained 
why having access to the TFC would be beneficial to her in the short term. She said that 
would enable her to buy a car outright. She could also use the money saved from doing so, 
£235 a month, to reinvest in her other occupational pension and savings. And listening to 
that call in isolation gives the clear impression that Miss W fully understood the benefits she 
would be giving up. But I don't think that, at that point in time, Portafina had provided Miss W 
with all the facts she needed to make such an important decision. And, to my mind, it seems 
illogical for Miss W to decide to take money out of one pension, simply to allow her to pay 
money into another pension that was unlikely to match the benefits shed be giving up.
When it spoke with Miss W Portafina hadn't provided her with its suitability report, it had only 
sent her a letter with limited information. And, while maintaining that its advice was not to 
transfer out of the scheme, Portafina told her it could make the transfer happen anyway if 
that was what she wanted. But at that time it hadnt given Miss W details about its proposed 
reinvestment strategy. Indeed during the call Miss W asked what Portafina intended for her 
to do with the remaining sums after shed taken her TFC. Portafina said that it would send 
those details to her, then all she needed to do was sign the forms and return them with proof 
of ID so she could go ahead with the transfer. In other words the call ended with it being a 
nailed on done deal that Miss W was going ahead with the transfer, even though, at that 
point, Miss W didnt know what she was transferring to. 
A much clearer process would have been for Portafina to provide its advice as a whole, 
taking into account Miss Ws objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the 
choice of pension and Miss Ws desire to take her TFC. Portafina should then have clearly 
set out in one document why transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Miss Ws best 
interests. Instead, it first gave Miss W advice not to go ahead with the transfer - while at the 
same time dangling the possibility of a large lump sum to be taken imminently. It was only 
later that it gave her information about the proposed alternatives in its suitability report, 
which was after Miss W had already said she wanted to transfer out of the scheme. 
Further while Miss Ws DB scheme allowed for her to access its benefits at age 65, that 
applied only to the fund built up from contributions paid into the scheme before June 2012. 
And funds built up after that date became payable prior to Miss Ws 67th birthday (actually 
when she reached 66 years and 221 days). That meant that her benefits under the DB 
scheme, as well as being index linked to deal with inflation, would increase before Miss W 
reached 67, but I can't see that Portafina highlighted this important aspect of her DB scheme 
benefits. 
Ive noted that Portafinas transfer value analysis report includes graphs which show her DB 
scheme income increasing before Miss W reached 67 years. For example it appears that her 
DB scheme pension entitlement, before tax, increased from around £3,200 at age 65 to over 
£5,000 before she turned 67. But I can't find any explicit reference to this increase in income 
in any of Portafinas communications with Miss W. It certainly doesn't refer to it in its letter of 
12 October 2018 nor in its follow up phone conversation of 26 October 2018. I think this 
increase in income is likely to have been something that would be important to Miss Ws 
considerations of whether or not she wanted to transfer out of the DB scheme and to give up 
this increase. So I believe this is something that, in order for Portafina to give Miss W 
information that was full, clear and not misleading, needed to be clearly brought to her 
attention. But I havent seen evidence that was the case. 
It follows that I dont think Portafina communicated with Miss W in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. And I dont believe Portafina gave her all the facts with which to make an informed decision about whether or not she wanted to proceed on an insistent client 
basis. 
Ive noted that Miss W told Portafina  in her own words both in writing and over the phone  
why she wanted to go against its advice and for it to treat her as an insistent client. Namely 
that she wanted the TFC to buy a car and that this would free up other income for her to pay 
into her other pension.
But while it appears Portafina has accurately recorded what Miss W told it, I've seen no 
compelling evidence it sought to explore with Miss W what the relevant benefits of the 
alternatives to transferring out of the DB scheme were. Portafinas role was to find out what 
Miss Ws wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what she wanted 
without appropriate analysis and challenge of her motives for doing so with the implications 
of taking those actions with her. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge even though 
that was in Miss Ws best interests. Indeed I've seen no evidence that Portafina explored 
with Miss W exactly what car she wished to buy and how much this was likely to cost her. 
Instead, its suitability report says that Miss Ws objective was to release £19,795 in TFC to 
buy a car. But that sum, £19,795, was simply the amount of TFC available and so not 
necessarily the amount she needed to buy a new car. 
And in any event, Im not necessarily persuaded that Miss W absolutely needed to purchase 
a new car. In the call with the adviser, she admitted that while she used her existing car for 
work, she only worked down the road, but she just wanted a car she could rely on if she 
had to drive to another site. So, had this objective been tested further, this could have turned 
into more of a nice to have rather than a pressing need that necessitated giving up her 
guaranteed pension. It also seems that the objective of releasing TFC was closely linked to 
Miss W then being able to redirect the amount she was paying for the car lease into her new 
pension. But I think Portafina ought to have recognised that taking money from one pension, 
in order to be able to pay more into another, was inefficient and wasnt likely to result in a 
higher pension for Miss W in retirement. So, I dont think Portafina fully explored what 
Miss Ws wants and needs were. And I dont think it met its obligations to challenge Miss Ws 
objectives in light of what she would be giving up.
Portafinas told us that it did explore alternatives with Miss W to her transferring out of her 
DB scheme in order to buy a car. But it said she had no savings or disposable income with 
which to buy a car and she didnt want to take on any further finance in order to do so. And 
said that, as a result, it believed Miss W would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway.
In my view, accessing funds from her main pension provision ought to have been a last 
resort. Portafina should have explored other ways of meeting this objective. And I think it 
ought to have suggested Miss W find the money to buy her car by other means. 
As well as having her DB scheme, Miss W was paying into another company pension 
scheme. I cant see anywhere within Portafinas analysis or reports where it looked at what 
the size of that pension pot might be when Miss W reached age 55. Nor can I see that 
Portafina considered whether or not it might have been beneficial for Miss W to take funds 
from that other scheme to buy a car rather than her DB scheme. And I understand that 
Miss Ws other occupational pension wasnt a defined benefit scheme but a money purchase 
one. So, unlike the DB scheme she transferred out of, it didnt provide any guarantee of the 
benefits it could pay to Miss W at retirement. In those circumstances its possible it might 
have made more sense for Miss W to take funds, if she insisted she needed those, from her 
other occupational pension fund and not from her DB scheme. But I've seen no evidence 
Portafina considered or explored that possibility. And that might have been a suitable way of 
achieving Miss Ws objective, without her giving up the valuable guarantees associated with 
her DB scheme. Similarly, Miss Ws DB scheme would have allowed her to take benefits from it at age 55 
although that would be at a reduced income. Ive noted that Portafinas value analysis report 
shows that Miss W could have taken a TFC lump sum of £7,941 and an annual income of 
£1,191 at age 56 from her DB scheme. Had Miss W taken that option that would have meant 
that she would have preserved some of the benefits from her DB scheme, albeit at a 
considerably reduced sum, but still allowed her access to others. One such benefit would 
have been an increasing, risk free, annual income that she would receive from age 55 for life 
and which was due for an additional increase before she reached age 67. Had Miss W taken 
that option she could have used the TFC and annual income from her DB scheme to help 
fund the purchase of a new car, while potentially still increasing the contributions to both her 
current occupational pension scheme and her savings. But I've seen no evidence Portafina 
considered or put this alternative position to Miss W. And I think exploring these alternatives 
was an important part of the advice process, which Portafina failed to carry out.
Portafina did give Miss W advice not to transfer out of her DB scheme and did bring some of 
the risks of doing so to her attention. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its recommendation 
to Miss W not to transfer. Thats because its recommendation relied on incomplete or 
misleading figures. Also it was followed up immediately with information about how she 
could proceed anyway. And I think that sent mixed messages about what its genuine 
recommendation was. And the suitability report, while saying that a transfer wasnt 
recommended, went on to recommend a transfer to the SIPP plan. 
So, as Ive set out above, I think there were flaws in Portafinas advice process which meant 
it didnt fully and accurately inform Miss W about her position. On balance, given these 
failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the process Portafina 
followed meant that its fair to truly regard Miss W as an insistent client. So I don't think it 
acted in her best interest. 
Portafina was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Miss W 
about what was in her best interests for retirement planning. It knows pension pots like 
Miss Ws DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But 
Miss Ws chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for a shorter term solution, 
rather than long-term planning. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to 
someone when they express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as 
applying the rigorous process of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client 
really is. 
It follows that I dont think Portafina did enough to fully advise Miss W of her options before it 
showed her down the insistent client road. So I dont think it treated her fairly. And, if it had 
done so and provided the level of advice I think it should have, I think its unlikely that 
Miss W would have transferred out of her DB scheme. 
Portafina argues that Miss W would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of what it 
told her. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss W wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portafinas advice if it had brought all of her 
options to her attention. I say this because Miss W was an inexperienced investor with a 
moderately cautious attitude to risk. And Portafina didnt present her with a complete picture 
of what she would be giving up, particularly from age 67, and the long-term benefits of the 
DB scheme. Indeed Portafinas insistent client form informed Miss W that she could take her 
TFC lump sum at 55 and also receive an annuity income at 65 of £2,900 but I can't find that 
figure supported in the evidence. So I think it misled her.
Had Portafina accurately represented Miss Ws position, including her likely DB income 
before she turned 67, and contrasted those benefits against the shorter term gain of buying a car, as well as fully exploring the alternatives, I think shed have heeded Portafinas advice 
not to transfer. So, if Portafina had provided her with clearer advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Portafina should compensate Miss W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss W, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Miss W 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, as I understand it, while Miss W has accessed her TFC she has not yet retired, 
and she has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on her DB 
schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss W within 90 days of the date Portafina receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay 
Miss W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portafina Investment 
Management Limited to pay Miss W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portafina Investment Management Limited to pay Miss W any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portafina 
Investment Management Limited to pay Miss W any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina Investment Management Limited pays Miss W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss W.
If Miss W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portafina Investment 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman