DRN-4202448
The complaint
Mr W has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Mr W invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Mr Ws complaint is that James Hay should not 
have allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2013 Mr W had an existing SIPP with James Hay.  Mr W bought 50,000 shares in a 
company which was part of an investment arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  He 
bought shares at £1 each.  This was funded largely by a limited recourse loan which was 
part of the Scheme.   
Shortly after Mr W bought the Scheme shares Mr W arranged for James Hay to buy the 
shares with funds in his SIPP.  James Hay paid £1 per share meaning over £50,000 was 
paid out of the SIPP to Mr W.
Mr W had carried out a similar transaction before when he invested in an earlier version of 
the Scheme.  That matter is subject to a separate complaint. 
Both arrangements were later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and, as I understand it, Mr W has agreed a settlement with HMRC.
With the help of a Claims Management Company (CMC), Mr W complained to James Hay 
that it had bought the shares in the Scheme without first carrying out adequate due diligence 
checks.  It did not uphold his complaint.  The CMC then referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint.  He thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  He made several points including:
Mr W is an IFA with his own IFA firm, and he was authorised to advise on pension 
transfers.  
Mr W would or should have done his own appropriate checks on the Scheme.  He 
will have understood how it operated and the risks involved.  
As an adviser able to advise on pension transfers Mr W would have had a good 
understanding of pensions legislation and the circumstances that might mean a 
payment from a SIPP was not authorised.
Mr W was or ought to have been aware that the Scheme might be investigated by 
HMRC. 
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Mr W for the decisions he made and was fully able to understand.
Mr Ws CMC does not agree with the investigator.  It has made several points including:
Mr W was introduced to the investment by its promotor, and he thought it was a good 
investment with potential for good returns.
Although Mr W is an IFA he never advised on anything like the Scheme.  When 
advising his clients, he adopted a much more vanilla approach. 
In an unrelated case against an adviser who advised a client to invest in the Scheme 
(or one of its predecessor Schemes) the ombudsman in that case found for the 
complainant who was a financial adviser.  The ombudsman found that the Scheme in 
that case was unsuitable for that complainant and accepted that he would not have 
understood the Scheme given its highly specialised nature. This complaint should be 
upheld for the same reason.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  And as mentioned, as I 
understand it, Mr W has reached a settlement with HMRC.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr W, because of his professional knowledge and experience, will have 
realised the Scheme was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC.  Mr W may not 
have invested in unlisted shares before, or advised others to do so, but he was an IFA able 
to advise on pensions so will have had a good understanding of relevant taxation issues.  
Mr W will have been aware of the unusual nature of the Scheme even if he did not 
understand all the details of it.  He will have been aware of the possibility of HMRC 
questioning a scheme involving unusual features such as the Scheme in this case. 
Mr W will have done a number of things when he was weighing up the risks involved.  And 
that will have, or should have, included his own assessment of the Scheme as a whole  not 
just the share price  set against his professional understanding of pension, investment, and taxation matters.  I accept that Mr W may also have taken into account the fact that James 
Hay was prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the Scheme (and previous 
versions of it).  But does that mean that the risk Mr W knew, or should have known, he was 
taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to James Hay?  In my view it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Ws adviser.  It did not advise him that taking those risks was 
suitable for him. Mr W made that decision for himself.  But in my view that was a decision 
Mr W was qualified and experienced to reasonably make and it is fair and reasonable that he 
bears the consequences of that decision. 
 
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Ws case, even if James Hay did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair 
and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr W.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman