DRN-2663177
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) quoted an increased motor bike 
insurance premium after a misrepresentation came to light after his application.
What happened
Mr K took out a motor cycle insurance policy with AXA through a price comparison site. 
Shortly after he took the policy out AXA contacted Mr K to let him know there was an issue 
with the information hed entered online. 
AXA said hed answered the question it asked about the purchase date of the motor bike 
incorrectly. It now considers this to have been a careless qualifying misrepresentation - 
which entitled it to charge more for the policy.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. She 
found that the misrepresentation was careless and AXA hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mr K doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr K 
remains unhappy as he says the additional premium was not fair and consistent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that hed purchased the motor bike in 2015. In 
this case, both parties are broadly in agreement that a misrepresentation did take place. But 
for completeness, Ive considered everything afresh.
Ive looked at the question asked online. The application stated: date of purchase and there 
were options to select the month and year of purchase. Mr K explained to us that when 
completing his application, for ease, hed edited a previous quote obtained through the 
website. But although he changed some details - such as the vehicle registration, he didnt 
change the purchase date. 
I think Mr K was asked a clear question by AXA through the comparison site used and he 
didnt take reasonable care to answer correctly. Even allowing for the explanation Mr K has 
provided for how the error came about at the point of application, Ive also noted that 
Mr K wouldve been sent paperwork after the sale - including a schedule of insurance that 
contained the incorrect date.
AXA has shown us (through their underwriting criteria) that if Mr K had not made this 
misrepresentation it would have at least charged him a higher premium. This means Im 
satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AXA has said Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless because the date of purchase was 
entered incorrectly. I agree with this misrepresentation being classed as careless. I say this 
because I dont consider that this was a deliberate or reckless attempt by Mr K to mislead 
the insurer, rather a simple error on his part that he didnt ensure all of the information he 
was submitting was correct. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions AXA can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, where a qualifying misrepresentation was careless, AXA can ask the 
customer for the increase in premium or cancel the policy. If the customer doesnt want 
either option, AXA can choose to keep the policy going and settle any future claims 
proportionately. 
In this case I can see AXA wrote to Mr K requesting the increased premium on 6 June 2019. 
It seems that there was a difference between the higher premium quoted and the actual 
increase in premium that was due, and I note that AXA didnt tell Mr K he could cancel the 
policy in the same letter. However, I can see he chose to cancel the policy and AXA 
refunded him £183.40 after calculating the time hed been on cover and have now refunded 
any cancelation fee Mr K paid. I consider that fair. 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. As explained 
above, had AXA known about the correct purchase date, then theyd have charged a higher 
premium. So, in this case I think AXA have ultimately acted in line with CIDRA and the 
overall end result is a fair and reasonable outcome. I say ultimately as not everything 
happened exactly as it should have here, but I cant say that Mr K has lost out and the end 
result is a fair outcome. 
Mr K was also unhappy with how the increased premium was calculated. He says he was 
discriminated against as he challenged AXAs pricing policy and that he was able to later 
obtain a much cheaper quote than the amended premium AXA quoted. 
Ive seen the underwriting criteria and pricing breakdown that sits behind the premiums 
charged in this case. As our investigator has already said, there may have been some fees 
included that Mr K had already paid. Whilst Mr K has referred to specific additional charges - 
he ultimately didnt pay the additional premium and instead chose to cancel the policy. So, 
whilst I understand his frustration, I dont think hes lost out because of this. Ultimately, I 
havent seen any supporting evidence that this was a deliberate attempt by AXA to mislead 
Mr K. I note theyve now refunded the cancelation charge  I consider that fair. 
Its also not within my remit to direct AXA to set their insurance premiums in a particular way 
or tell them how they should offer discounts or promotions to individual customers through comparison sites. Ultimately, customers are free to shop around for a better deal if they so 
wish. Im pleased to hear that Mr K was later able to find a cheaper alternative policy than he 
wouldve paid had he paid the higher premium due with AXA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman