DRN-3145516
The complaint
 Mr A complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC.  A fraudster opened an account in Mr As 
name, and built up a debt, for which debt collectors then chased Mr A. 
Mr A complained that Barclays:
- didnt take proper care when it opened the fraudulent account  for example the 
street name for the address didnt exist; and
- didnt deal with the matter promptly as soon as he contacted it.
Mr A would like an apology and compensation. 
 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr A received a letter from a Debt Collection firm, saying he owed 
Barclaycard a debt of £2,484.12. Mr A had never had any account with Barclays, so he 
thought it was a scam. He went to a local branch, taking the letter to talk to them about the 
scam. Mr A said that the branch staff told him that as he had never been a Barclays 
customer, he should ignore the letter.
But in early August, Mr A received another letter, this time from a solicitor, again saying he 
owed Barclays for an outstanding debt. This letter mentioned civil court proceedings. So Mr 
A went back to the branch, where he was told to phone Barclays card fraud, and then to 
contact the first firm of debt collectors who had written to him in February.
Mr A rang Barclays, and it was confirmed hed never had a Barclaycard. He rang the debt 
collectors, as the branch had told him to. During the call, he was asked if hed ever lived at a 
particular street in the city where he lived. Mr A replied that hed never heard of this street  
and he later found out that no such street existed. The debt collection wrote on 27 August to 
say it was investigating. And on 14 October it wrote to say it believed Mr A was Barclays 
customer and was liable for the debt.
Mr A has complained separately about what the debt collection agency did.  This complaint 
is just about Barclays actions.
After Mr A received the debt collection agencys letter saying he was liable, Mr A got back in 
touch with Barclays. The phone number the debt collection agency had provided didnt work, 
but Mr A found another number and rang on 17 October. He was told the fraud team would 
ring him back.
But it didnt.  Two days later, on 19 October, Mr A went back to the branch. Mr A was 
extremely upset and stressed, and in tears, having had little sleep because of the worry. One 
of the staff contacted Barclays fraud team for Mr A. During that call, my A asked what was 
the address at which the account had been opened. The fraud investigator gave the same 
street name as the debt collector firm had told him  which Mr A pointed out didnt exist. Mr 
A also said that hed lived at his current address for many years, and his correct address 
bore no resemblance to the address on the fraudulent account.
Mr A contacted this service the next day, telling us what had happened and saying how 
distressed he and his wife were.
On 24 October 2019, Barclays fraud department wrote to Mr A and confirmed that it had 
removed the fraudulent spending and charges, and said it had amended Mr As credit file. It 
also said that as a safeguard against further attempts, it had registered Nr A with the fraud 
prevention service CIFAS, and explained what this involved. 
Mr A contacted this service again about what had happened, which had caused such 
distress to him and his wife. 
In its final response letter on 13 January 2021, Barclays said it was sorry for the distress and 
inconvenience which Mr A and his family had suffered. It said that the account had been 
deemed fraudulent and had been closed on 24 October 2019. It also said that it had 
arranged for adverse credit data which had been recorded against Mr A, to be removed. The 
letter said that he should check his credit file as a precaution, and told him how to do this. 
But Barclays said it had followed the correct procedures when it had opened the fraudulent 
account. It said that an account can be opened online, and that wouldnt always need 
identification.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and asked us to look at his complaint.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said the fraudulent application had been 
completed online in 2012. He explained that, like most banks, Barclays carries out credit 
checks on online applications. If credit check information doesnt match the application 
information, the bank then contacts the application for more information. But here, Barclays 
credit check hadnt produced any anomalies, so the application had been passed.
The investigator said that this would be concerning for Mr A, because the fraudster must 
have obtained quite a lot of his personal information. But he said that Barclays had followed 
its procedures correctly. The investigator also said that Barclays first became aware of the 
fraud in September 2019, and it had agreed with Mr A that the account had been opened 
fraudulently on 24 October. So the investigator didnt think Barclays need pay Mr A any 
compensation.
Mr A didnt agree. He pointed out that:
- Barclays should have stopped the debt collection firm pursuing him when hed first 
contacted the bank. If it had done so, Mr A wouldnt have had to make his 
subsequent visits to the branch, adding to the stress;
- The address used had been fictitious. And Mr A said there would be more than one 
person in his city who had the same name as he did;
- Barclays should have exercised due care and diligence, and Know your customer, 
matching a customer to an address. Mr A said Barclays could never have matched 
him to that fictitious address.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman decision.  
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.First, I said that it was clear that Mr A had been a victim of impersonation fraud. This is 
always an upsetting and frightening thing to happen. I do understand that Mr A and his wife 
have been very worried and distressed by this.
Its unfortunate that the fraud against Mr A took place a long time ago, because this means 
that records are limited.  In particular, Id have liked to have seen more about the records 
that Barclays kept about the application, in order to see whether Barclays could have done 
more at the time to prevent the fraud. Banks arent obliged to keep records indefinitely, and 
wouldnt normally keep full records for longer than six years.  
The fake address
I did, however, look at the records that were available. And these did provide an answer to 
one of Mr As complaint points  which was that the address which the fraudster gave on 
opening the account  doesnt exist. The records showed that when the account was opened 
in 2012, it was opened with Mr As correct name, date of birth  and the address which is 
now his correct address. The time at address in 2012 also tallied with how long Mr A had 
recently said hes been living there. So whatever security searches  for example electoral 
roll  might have been carried out at that point, would have passed, because there was a Mr 
A with those details at that address. 
What then happened was that a few months later, the person operating the account notified 
Barclays of a change of address. It was this address which then stayed on the record, which 
Barclays and the debt collectors, then asked Mr A about, thinking it was his current address. 
I googled the address, and Mr A was quite right that the exact address doesnt exist. There 
is a similar address with road instead of street, though that has a different postcode from 
the one the fraudster registered as his change of address. Although ideally a computer 
system would pick up a non-existent address, there wouldnt be the detailed checks if an 
existing account holder changed address some months after opening the account, compared 
to what there would have been at account opening.  Opening an account at the address of a 
genuine person, then changing it soon afterwards, is typical of impersonation fraud. 
I recognised that it was probably even more concerning for Mr A to know that the fraudster 
knew his correct address as well as his full name and date of birth. But hopefully the 
protective marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS will act as a protection for him in 
future.
Whether Barclays acted fairly and the impact on Mr A 
As Ive explained above, the account opening took place a long time ago, meaning that the 
full information isnt available about the impersonation fraud. This is frustrating, but I focused 
on what Barclays did when Mr A first became aware of the problem in February 2019.
Barclays argued that it only became aware of Mr As complaint in September 2019. That 
may well be true for its head office complaint department. But I accepted Mr As version of 
events and I accepted that he went to a local Barclays branch in February, taking the letter 
to talk to them about the scam. I also accepted that branch staff told him that as he had 
never been a Barclays customer, he should ignore the letter. I accepted Mr As evidence 
because his account had been meticulous, clear and detailed. 
I also agreed with Mr A that if the branch had taken this seriously in February, Mr A would 
have been spared much of the subsequent trauma of being chased by debt collectors for a 
debt which wasnt his. Mr A said he went to the branch four times. I considered the branch should have taken this seriously in February 2019. It should have 
taken a copy of the letter and sent it to the relevant head office team for investigation. The 
fact that Mr A hadnt ever been a Barclays customer makes no difference to whether or not a 
fraudster could have opened an impersonation account in Mr As name. And the debt 
collection firm was one which Barclays used, which should also have flagged this to the 
branch as something to be taken seriously.
If the branch had flagged this with the relevant Barclays department in February, there was 
already a lot of information to suggest that this account wasnt legitimate. Barclays had never 
had call to act on that before, but when Mr A contacted the bank, it should have built a pretty 
clear picture, meaning it should have been able to act on his report much more quickly than 
it did.  Ive read the notes on the file, and, for example, these included  as well as the 
change of address a few months after the account was opened - 
- in May 2013 the notes recorded customer not known at business telephone  no-
one listed at company with customers name- presumably where the fraudster had 
said Mr A worked; 
- in June 2013, there was a note that the mobile number on the account (which wasnt 
Cs) was invalid.  There had also been failed attempts to contact the account holder 
by landline;
- mail about the accumulated debt was returned from the fraudulent address in 
November 2013.
So I considered that if the branch had reported Mr As concerns in February 2019, when he 
had the first letter and first found out about the impersonation fraud, it should have been 
possible for Barclays to act quickly. This would have significantly reduced the length of time 
Mr A was worried, and would also have prevented the strength of the later debt collection 
letters, for example from a solicitor threatening court action. Instead, it was October 2019 
when the fraudulent account was closed.
I considered the impact on Mr A was significant. There was no impact prior to February 
2019, because Mr A didnt know about the problem until then. But I accepted that hed have 
been distressed and worried at being chased by debt collectors and by solicitors, and at the 
prospect of being taken to court for a debt he hadnt incurred. It would have been worrying, 
upsetting and frustrating. And I could see why Mr A would have found this hard to believe 
that it was really happening to him. And it would have been especially worrying that he went 
to Barclays branch four times, but didnt seem to be getting anywhere. This meant that Mr A 
had these worries and uncertainty over the course of around  eight months. which is a long 
time for a customer to have an issue like this hanging over them. Thats especially true when 
Mr A wasnt responsible for the debt in the first place, and in light of my findings that 
Barclays could have resolved this sooner.
The primary cause of the distress is of course the unknown fraudster. But I considered that 
this was exacerbated by the fact that Barclays could have acted much more quickly after Mr 
A went to the branch in February 2019.
Mr A said that both he and his wife suffered great distress because of what happened. I 
dont doubt this is true. But as Mr A was the person who was being chased for this debt, I 
cant take Mrs As distress into account in considering compensation. But I bore in mind that 
her upset would have had a significant impact in worsening how Mr A felt about what had 
happened.
Taking all these factors into account, I provisionally found that Barclays should pay Mr A 
£500 compensation for the increased distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to 
deal promptly with Mr As concerns about the February 2019 letter.Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr A, nor Barclays, commented on the contents of my provisional decision by the 
date set for responses.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having reconsidered, and as there have been no substantive replies from Mr A or Barclays, 
I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A £500 compensation for 
the increased distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to deal promptly with Mr As 
concerns about the February 2019 letter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman