DRN-4319473
The complaint
Mr F complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S), trading as M&S Bank,  
irresponsibly granted him a personal loan agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr F took out a personal loan with M&S, to be used in part to pay off 
some existing borrowing. Under the terms of the loan agreement, Mr F was borrowing 
£13,000 and paying it back by way of 35 monthly payments of £413. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £14,785.56.
The loan was fully repaid in September 2021. 
Mr F says that M&S didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as he was already struggling with debt, including 
existing credit. 
M&S didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included using the 
information Mr F gave in his application as well as information provided by a  credit 
reference agency. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. They thought M&S ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt likely to be sustainable for Mr F.
As M&S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
When Mr F applied for the loan, he told M&S he was earning an annual gross salary of 
£28,500, which works out to a net salary of around £1,800. M&S said it carried out checks to 
make sure the loan would be affordable for Mr F. It did this by relying on information in 
Mr Fs application and also by checking information held by credit reference agencies. This 
showed that Mr F owed around £14,500 in existing credit but there were no signs of him 
having difficulty making payments to his credit. M&S found that he still had enough 
disposable income  around £500 - to be able to afford the loan. 
From the available details it looks like M&S also took steps to verify Mr Fs monthly income 
and identify his monthly living costs using statistical information. I think on balance it 
gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Mr F and credit reference 
sources, so to that extent the checks were proportionate. But it doesnt automatically mean 
that because M&S carried out proportionate checks it then went on to make a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information available at the time was 
likely to have actually showed. 
Given Mr Fs level of existing credit, sustainable monthly payments would be taking around 
£650 of his income  although M&S estimated the monthly figure to be around £580. Once 
the loan cost was added this would mean he would be paying over £1,000 out of his £1,800 
monthly income towards credit, before allowing for other committed expenditure and daily 
living costs. So I think on that basis M&S ought to have been prompted by its checks to gain 
a better idea of Mr Fs financial situation by asking him for more information about his 
ongoing expenditure. I say this especially given that, based on M&Ss calculations, Mr F 
would only be left with around £100 in disposable income after paying his existing credit plus 
his new M&S loan. Also, since Mr F had said he wanted the loan for consolidation purposes, 
which on the face of it could reduce the total cost of his borrowing, the overall level of 
indebtedness on credit, plus the availability of another £1,000 credit available to him from his 
existing credit cards, raised the prospect that the total borrowing could easily become 
unsustainable. 
Mr F has also sent us his credit report. M&S says it doesnt usually review a customers 
credit report, relying instead on the credit reference bureau information. I can see that Mr F 
didnt have any adverse markings on his credit file, such as arrears, and there was no recent 
history of other adverse events such as having a county court judgment registered against 
him. But, as our investigator noted, the report shows that Mr F was heavily reliant on short 
term borrowing. I can see that in the two years prior to taking this loan he took out at least 
seven other loans. I think its reasonable that this ought to have prompted further enquiry by 
M&S about Mr Fs spending, which I understand included a substantial amount of gambling. 
Mr F also had at least four credit cards. One of his ongoing loans and one of the credit card 
balances appears to have been settled by way of using some of the loan funds  but it was 
open to Mr F to use the remaining funds as he chose to, notwithstanding that this meant he 
could be in breach of the M&Ss loan conditions, especially if the loan funds were used for to 
support further gambling. And the possibility of building up further debt by using the available 
credit limit on his cards remained open to Mr F. Additional checks, such as requesting copies 
of Mr Fs bank statements, would likely have shown evidence of gambling and given a fuller 
picture of what were likely to be stretched financial circumstances. 
I therefore think theres a strong likelihood at the point of applying for the loan, Mr Fs 
financial welfare was already deteriorating, not least caused by his heavy gambling. And so I 
think that taking on further debt at this point raised the real possibility that he would be 
accelerating his debt unsustainably. 
Putting together all the information Ive seen  including the comments M&S has made in 
response to our investigators findings - I think its very likely that Mr F was already 
financially stretched at the time he applied for the loan and that the situation was likely to 
become worse if he took on further borrowing. So I think all this demonstrates that Mr F was 
not in a position to sustainably repay the loan. I therefore think M&S ought to have done 
more to look into Mr Fs financial situation before granting it. And so M&S didnt act fairly by 
approving the loan. 
Putting things right  what M&S needs to do
As I dont think M&S ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or add charges under the loan agreement. Mr F should 
therefore only have to pay the original loan amount, being £13,000. Anything Mr F has paid 
in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Fs complaint M&S should therefore do the following:Refund any payments Mr F has made in excess of £13,000. It should add 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Marks and Spencer Financial Services PLC, trading as 
M&S Bank, to put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman