DRN-3533970
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed him 
after he says his money was stolen by a third party who had access to his online banking.
What happened
On 15 January 2022 Mr C says he was trying to make his way home in the early hours of the 
morning. His phone had run out of battery and he had no way of using any of his usual taxi 
apps. He says he waved down a taxi, which he says was registered in the city, and asked 
them to take him home for an agreed price he could pay by bank transfer once he had 
charged his phone. They agreed and said he could charge his phone on the way.
Mr C says the taxi driver started to drive him. In correspondence with NatWest hes said the 
taxi driver immediately said he needed to pay in advance for the journey, but at other points 
hes told our service the driver stopped so he could take money out at an ATM to make a 
withdrawal of the fare and his card was declined. 
Mr C says at some point he accessed his online banking to transfer the agreed fare. When 
he initially reported the matter to the bank, Mr C said he made the transfer himself and 
accidentally sent £3,000 instead of the agreed fare of £20 or £30. He later said once he 
accessed his online banking he gave his phone, and full access to his online banking, to the 
driver so they could input their account details, and it was the driver who transferred 
themselves £3,000. 
In his complaint to our service, Mr C said he was unable to stop the taxi driver while he was 
making the transfer and has described himself as being very intimidated. After they 
transferred themselves some of Mr Cs money, he said the taxi driver returned the phone 
and drove Mr C to a nearby police station so he could report the matter to the police. Mr C 
says as the station was closed he called the police to report what had happened.
Mr C didnt get any of the taxi drivers details, has said the police station couldnt provide any 
CCTV footage and he was unable to trace the driver through the registered company he said 
they worked for.
Mr C reported the matter to NatWest but it didnt feel Mr C had been the victim of a scam or 
any kind of fraud it would be liable for. It felt Mr C likely had a disagreement with the 
gentlemen he paid over the amounts due and services provided. As it felt it was a civil 
dispute and not a scam, it didnt feel it was liable for the loss.
Mr C didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service to consider. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. They felt there were some inconsistencies in Mr Cs story and 
that what hed described overall wasnt plausible. As they didnt think Mr C had been able to 
plausibly explain what had happened, they didnt think NatWest was liable for the loss. Mr C 
didnt accept this so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, although Ive considered all of Mr Cs additional points and arguments very carefully, 
I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably here.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). I 
wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer is 
responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised by 
the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable. 
In this case, Mr Cs story has changed significantly around whether or not he did in fact 
authorise the payment to the person hes said scammed him. When he first reported the 
matter to the bank, and in a subsequent phone call, he clearly describes sending the 
payment to the recipient himself. Later, this story changes and he says the taxi driver had his 
phone, after Mr C handed it over to him giving him access to his online banking, and they 
made the payment.
Like the investigator, I do have some concerns about the plausibility of Mr Cs version of 
events overall. Especially given the considerable inconsistencies in his story throughout. But, 
I think the detail of who actually made the payment is the most significant factor in this case 
and in the telling of what happened. Its very clear from what Mr C told the bank initially, a 
few hours after the events occurred, he made the payment. And this wasnt a 
misinterpretation or one sentence where Mr C mightve had a slip or used the incorrect 
language. He has a clear conversation with the bank on two separate occasions about how 
he, himself, made the payment to the driver. Seemingly without explanation, the next time he 
spoke to the bank this had completely changed and the driver had made it. 
Whilst I accept Mr C has said he was tired when he reported what had happened to him, I 
find it implausible that this resulted in him completely and incorrectly retelling what had 
happened to him. As Ive said, this isnt a smaller detail of the case, this essentially is the 
crux of what happened. 
And aside from the sudden and significant change in Mr Cs story, when taking into account 
other circumstances, I dont think there is much information that supports that someone else 
likely carried out the transfer. Weve contacted the recipients bank and theres no evidence 
to suggest they are involved in any fraudulent activity. And it seems odd that if given full 
access to Mr Cs account as Mr C says, and decided to steal his money, they wouldve left 
over £800 in the account. It also seems strange that if Mr C was intimidated by the driver as 
he later said he was he then voluntarily stayed in the car with him and asked to be driven to 
the nearest police station. And even stranger that the driver took him to a police station if 
theyd just stolen his money. Mr C also hasnt been able to provide any evidence he was in a 
taxi and has no details of the driver or the car. So its difficult to verify the nature of their 
relationship or any arrangement they had in place.Overall, I think its more likely than not Mr C made the payment himself. And hes not 
provided any circumstances or plausible explanation that suggest he was tricked or 
scammed into making it. So the payment essentially comes down to his user error. This 
means as a starting point NatWest was correct in making it as he instructed. And as hes 
said the amount he sent was an error, this is a dispute between him and the person he sent 
the money to and not something NatWest is responsible for.
I understand Mr C feels very strongly that driver making the payment is the truthful version of 
events. He feels this is how he lost his money and how the complaint should be considered. 
And it might be helpful if I explain that even if I did think it was more likely a third party made 
the transfer in the circumstances hes described, it wouldnt simply be a case of asking 
NatWest to reimburse him for this. In a situation where the driver made the payment, Id still 
need to consider whether Mr C had been grossly negligent in handing over full access to his 
online banking to a third party, which is in breach of the terms and conditions of his account. 
And in this case, I do think handing your phone over to someone to allow them full access to 
your online banking for long enough that they are able to transfer money to themselves is 
carelessness to a significant degree. So even if I did think it was likely Mr C allowed 
someone else to transfer the money to themselves, I would be unlikely to conclude NatWest 
was fully liable for this as essentially its a situation thats come about due to Mr Cs 
negligence.
Overall, I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably in not reimbursing Mr C for his loss.
Should NatWest have stopped the payment being made?
Mr C has said he strongly feels the payment shouldve been stopped by the bank as it was 
being made as it was significantly unusual. The payment he made was for a greater amount 
than his general use in the months leading up to the payment. But I wouldnt expect NatWest 
to stop every payment slightly larger than usual. It has to strike a balance in monitoring 
accounts and preventing fraud with not unduly hindering a customers general use of their 
account. And its reasonable to expect that, occasionally, individuals will want to make 
purchases that are larger than their usual day to day spending. For example, paying for a 
holiday, home improvements or a car. Its also not unusual that these payments might be to 
new beneficiaries as they arent regular purchases. 
Mr C has said it shouldve thought it was a risk factor the payment was being made in the 
early hours of the morning, but this isnt something I wouldve expected the bank to take into 
account when monitoring risk. Overall, I dont think this payment reasonably ought to have 
appeared to have been a risk, so I dont think NatWest needed to carry out further checks 
beyond accepting the authorisation agreed in the terms of use of Mr Cs online banking.
Mr C has queried why the payment wasnt frozen while the matter was investigated, but as 
his terms and conditions set out, and as is generally the case, online transfers are usually 
immediate. So the money had already left his account by the time he reported the matter. 
Once the money had left his account, NatWest wasnt able to somehow freeze this.
Part of Mr Cs complaint is that he was told by NatWest he would receive a reimbursement 
of what hed lost and it later changed its mind. Ive listened to all the available calls between 
Mr C and NatWest. During one conversation he was told NatWest might reimburse him for 
his loss on the basis hed paid an incorrect amount but its clear this was before an 
investigation had taken place. In the next call Ive heard he was informed there were 
concerns about the inconsistencies in what hed been telling the bank and he was advised to 
try and get more advice from the police and to try and trace the taxi driver. It does seem incorrect information was given by NatWest around reimbursement, but this 
was corrected quickly. And I dont think Mr C was led to believe hed certainly be receiving a 
full reimbursement of his loss. I think it was always clear an investigation still had to be 
carried out. 
Mr C has also complained about calls being cut off and long waiting times. Sometimes there 
will be longer than usual waiting times during busy periods and whilst no doubt frustrating 
are unfortunately part of the inconvenience of this type of complaint. And although I can see 
some calls appear to have been cut off, Mr C mentioned on one call he thought he was 
responsible for ending one of them so its not clear if this was always the fault of the bank. 
Overall I think the £50 offered by Natwest in relation to these points is sufficient.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman