DRN-3948820
The complaint
Mr B complains through a loss assessor, O, about the way that Society of Lloyd's dealt with 
his commercial insurance claim for damage to a dynamometer (dyno) in his business. The 
policy was underwritten by a Lloyds underwriter and the claim dealt with by a loss adjuster. 
Though for convenience, unless I say otherwise, Ill refer to Lloyds throughout. 
What happened
In mid-March 2021 a car on the inspection ramp in Mr Bs business burst its radiator causing 
water to spray over the dyno (equipment for vehicle tuning) in the inspection pit. Mr B 
noticed that the dyno was giving false readings. He contacted O who lodged a claim with 
Lloyds about two months after the incident. Lloyds arranged for a loss adjuster to carry out 
a site visit, which it did in early June. The cause of damage couldnt be detected from the 
initial inspection so a consulting engineer, R, was appointed. A site visit took place on 
15 June, following which further data was requested. Mr B says he made it plain that without 
the dyno he would go out of business.
R asked Mr B for further information after the visit, which he provided. In order to carry out 
the report R had to contact the dynos manufacturer, so that a site inspection could take 
place with one of its technicians. R had difficulty in arranging such a visit with the technician, 
but eventually it was proposed that such a visit take place in early August.
However O informed Lloyds that Mr B had had to leave his workshop premises as he could 
no longer carry on the business. The equipment had been dismantled and placed into 
storage. Mr B couldnt afford the cost of reassembling it but invited Lloyds to do so.
R reported back that based on their inspection, the data they had received and discussions 
with the manufacturer, the cause of damage was likely a software issue and not related to 
the incident with the car. They had wanted the further inspection to confirm the cause. Based 
on that Lloyds declined the claim.
O said that Mr B had made it clear he would lose his business, and because of the six-week 
delay that had happened. 
Lloyds denied any liability for the loss of business, pointing out that the dyno was a highly 
specialised piece of equipment, so availability of experts was limited and that the time period 
was reasonable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Lloyds had acted 
reasonably.
Mr B didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially I have to decide whether Lloyds was at fault in respect of the delays in dealing 
with the claim. First of all, as has been pointed out, the dyno was a highly specialised piece 
of equipment. Lloyds was reliant on a consulting engineer, who in turn had difficulty in 
establishing contact with a technician from the manufacturer to arrange a site visit. I dont 
think that Lloyds was responsible for the availability of the technician.
A site visit could have taken place in early August 2021 but by that time, without Mr B 
informing Lloyds, the dyno had been dismantled. R was able to report the likely cause 
(which they believed to be a software issue) shortly after that, but would have preferred a 
visit with the technician to consider the software and compatibility issues. 
I appreciate that Lloyds was unable to say whether the claim would be upheld or not without 
the engineers report. But I dont think Mr B was led to believe the claim would be accepted. I 
would observe that he didnt report any claim for two months in which time the equipment 
was giving faulty readings. And while he told Lloyds he would go out of business Ive noted 
that O advised Lloyds that he was still trading but was mobile rather than workshop based.
I dont think that Lloyds should be required to rebuild the equipment to retest it. It was for 
Mr B to provide any inspection facilities.
Lastly the claim has been declined so presumably Mr B wasnt in a position to carry on with 
his business from the workshop. I would observe from his policy that he chose not to take 
out insurance for loss of profits.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman