DRN-1987490
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that it was unable to access money in its account due to 
errors by Advance Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus). A is represented by its 
director, who Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr B asks for compensation and that As directors and 
managers are banned from running a bank or other business.
What happened
Mr B says he was unable to access money in As account between early December 2019 
and mid-January 2020. He says when he raised this with staff and senior officers at A, their 
response was incompetent and indifferent. 
Mr B says his personal circumstances made it particularly upsetting that he couldnt access 
funds over that period, and he had to borrow from family and use credit cards.
Cashplus says some customers had difficulty accessing its online services in late 2019. It 
says the problem was resolved in mid-January 2020. Cashplus upheld As complaint and 
offered to refund the annual business account fee of £69. Mr B says this isnt enough.
Our investigator said Cashplus should pay compensation of £200 for the inconvenience 
caused to A. She said she couldnt require it to pay compensation for the distress caused to 
Mr A and his family as they arent Cashpluss customers. 
Cashplus didnt agree, offering compensation of £75 and to refund the annual account fee of 
£69.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that A had problems accessing its accounts with Cashplus in late 
2019 and January 2020. Cashplus upheld As complaint and offered compensation. I think it 
was right to do so. What is in dispute is whether the compensation offered by Cashplus is 
fair. 
Putting things right
Mr B told us about his family circumstances. Im very sorry for the situation hes described, 
and I appreciate how the problems he experienced with As account increased his distress at 
an already difficult time.
A is a limited company, and has legal personality separate from its director. As the account 
holder, A is Cashpluss customer and, under our rules which I must apply, the complainant. 
So I can only consider the effect of Cashpluss errors on A. I cant require Cashplus to pay 
compensation to a third party  such as Mr B  or for a third partys upset.
Mr B has said that A didnt suffer financial loss due to the problems with its account. He says 
A has minimal running costs, which he funded. And, as a limited company, A cant feel 
upset. But its director (Mr B) was caused inconvenience and I can require Cashplus to pay 
compensation for that.
Cashpluss notes show Mr B called several times in December 2019 and January 2020 
about problems accessing As account online. He also contacted senior officers at A to ask 
them to help sort out the problems. Mr B funded As business expenses. He was unable to 
use online services to withdraw funds from As account. I think, given the amount of 
inconvenience As director was caused, Cashpluss offer of £75 compensation isnt enough. I 
think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator, and we dont have 
the powers of a regulator to fine businesses, or to require them to change their processes or 
officers. And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So while I understand Mr As 
frustration with the response from Cashplus, I cant make it change its processes or officers 
 or impose a ban on them working elsewhere.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Advance Payment Solutions Limited to 
pay £200 to A, in addition to refunding the account fee of £69 (as it offered to do).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman