DRN-3714734
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with several aspects of the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc,
trading as Virgin Money, surrounding a direct debit that was attempted to be taken from his
account.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr W was notified by his Virgin Money app that £479.99 would be taken
by direct debit at the end of that month as the monthly payment towards his account.
However, Mr Ws current account provider notified him at the end of that month that Virgin
Money had in fact applied for £2,110.89 by direct debit, which would leave Mr W
considerably overdrawn and therefore incurring fees on his current account.
Mr W contacted Virgin Money about this, and after a lengthy telephone call was told to raise
an immediate indemnity claim with his current account provider who could prevent the direct
debit payment from being completed. Mr W did this, but then discovered shortly afterwards
that his Virgin Money account had been frozen, meaning that new and scheduled payments
couldnt come out of that account.
Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he contacted Virgin Money to make a complaint. Virgin
Money explained that the team that Mr W needed to speak with to unblock the account
wouldnt be at work for a few days, and that nothing could be done before that time. Mr Ws
account was unblocked by Virgin Money when the relevant team returned to work, but Mr W
wasnt happy about how Virgin Money handled his complaint, including that they sent a
response letter to an incorrect address. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, Virgin Money
accepted that the service that Mr W had received in regard to the length of telephone calls
hed been on and the posting of the letter to the incorrect address wasnt to the standard that
they aspire to, and Virgin Money offered a payment of £75 to Mr W as compensation for this.
However, Virgin Money felt that the account statement issued to Mr W had explained that
the direct debit would still be taken even if Mr W made additional payments to the account,
and so they confirmed to this service that they didnt feel that this aspect of Mr Ws complaint
should be upheld.
Our investigator considered Virgin Moneys position and felt it provided a fair and reasonable
response to Mr Ws complaint. But Mr W didnt agree with the view of this complaint put
forwards by our investigator, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 September 2022 as follows:
Its easy to understand how Mr W would be frustrated here. This is because
in circumstances where customers are making substantial monthly repayments  as 
Mr Ws direct debit was set up to do  and where that customer makes additional 
payments, it seems apparent that theres a disconnect between what Virgin Moneys 
app states will be the direct debit amount applied for, and what the actual direct debit 
amount applied for is.
In this instance, the monthly account statement for December 2021 advised that a 
direct debit payment of £2,648.45 would be applied for at the end of that month. And 
the monthly statement also explained that Virgin Money would still attempt to apply 
for the direct debit even if Mr W made additional payments to the account.
Mr W then made several additional payments, one of which brought the balance of 
the account down to £2,110.89. And while the account was at this balance, Virgin 
Money began the process of applying for the monthly direct debit with Mr Ws current 
account holder. This process can take several working days, and once the process 
has begun, the amount that will be requested  in this case £2,110.89  is locked in.
It's notable that the amount Virgin Money applied for here - £2,110.89  isnt the 
£2,648.45 as advised on the monthly account statement. Virgin Money have 
explained that if customer payments reduce the balance outstanding on an account 
below the direct debit amount given on a monthly statement, they will only apply for 
the lower full balance of the account, rather than the previously declared higher 
amount. This seems reasonable to me, and its for this reason that Virgin Money 
applied for a direct debit payment of £2,111.89.
But in the period after Virgin Money began the process of applying for the £2,111.89
payment, but before the direct debit was scheduled to be paid, Mr W continued to 
make additional payments. And these payments reduced the balance of his account 
considerably.
Importantly, the Virgin Money app, which Mr W used to monitor the ongoing status of 
his account, appeared to show that Virgin Money were taking account of these 
further payments. And Mr W has provided a screenshot of his Virgin Money app that 
states that Virgin Money would be applying for a payment of only £479.99 by direct 
debit at the end of December 2021.
It therefore seems apparent that Virgin Moneys app lacked the functionality to be 
able to recognise when Virgin Money had begun the direct debit process such that 
the amount applied for at that time was locked in.
And given that Virgin Moneys app was explicitly informing Mr W that a considerably 
lower direct debit amount would be taken than was actually the case, in line with the 
additional payments that Mr W had made and with no apparent disclaimers that the 
amount displayed might be inaccurate, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Mr W 
to have expected Virgin Money to have applied for a direct debit payment at that 
lower amount of £479.99 at the end of December 2021, and to have financially 
provisioned accordingly.
I can therefore understand how Mr W would have been upset to discover that Virgin 
Money had applied for £2,111.89 by direct debit, the fulfilment of which would leave 
his current account significantly overdrawn such that he would be incurring fees, 
while simultaneously putting his Virgin Money credit account into a position of 
significant positive credit.I can also appreciate how Mr Ws frustration may have been exacerbated when, after
contacting Virgin Money immediately upon on learning of the £2,111.89 direct debit
payment, he had a telephone call lasting approximately 90 minutes which resulted in 
him being asked to raise an immediate indemnity claim with his bank to prevent the 
direct debit payment from completing  information which I feel should have been 
given to Mr W far quicker than was actually the case.
Finally, having made the indemnity claim with his bank, Mr W then discovered that 
the act of making that claim had triggered Virgin Moneys fraud security concerns 
such that his account was now frozen. This occurred at the end of December, and so 
the length of time that the account was frozen  which was dependent on the 
relevant Virgin Money team being present at work  was affected by the New Year 
bank holiday. And Mr W also found that Virgin Money had charged a £12 fee to his 
account because of what had happened.
Theres an unfortunate cascade effect to these events. Mr Ws account wouldnt have 
been frozen if he hadnt raised the indemnity claim, and he wouldnt have raised the 
indemnity claim if Virgin Money hadnt applied for a much larger direct debit amount 
than he was expecting. Additionally, when Mr W raised a complaint with Virgin 
Money about what had happened, Virgin Money initially logged an incorrect postcode 
and sent a response letter to an incorrect address.
But I feel that none of this would have happened had Virgin Moneys app provided 
the correct information to Mr W about the amount of the direct debit payment that 
would be applied for at the end of December 2021, rather than providing Mr W with a 
factually incorrect amount. And while Virgin Money might contend that their monthly 
statement explained that they would still apply for the direct debit if Mr W made 
additional payments, the amount that they did apply for wasnt the same as declared 
on the relevant monthly statement, and I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Mr W 
to have trusted what the Virgin Money app was telling him would be the direct debit 
amount applied for.
Im therefore satisfied that Virgin Money should compensate Mr W for the trouble and 
upset that hes incurred here, which I feel is significant, and which includes Mr W 
having to take considerable time to try to resolve the matters surrounding the 
attempted direct debit and the subsequent freezing of his Virgin Money account 
during a time when his work in the emergency services sector already placed him 
under considerable stress.
Ultimately, while I acknowledge that Virgin Money did reimburse the £12 fee to Mr 
Ws account, I feel that the £75 compensation amount that Virgin Money have offered 
to Mr W doesnt provide fair compensation for the impact that Virgin Moneys actions 
have had here.
As such, my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour and instructing Virgin Money to make a payment of £450 to Mr W, which I feel 
more reasonably compensates him for the trouble and distress these matters have 
caused.
In arriving at this position Ive considered all that Ive described above alongside the 
general framework by which this service awards compensation, details of which can 
be found on this services website. I must note that this service doesnt take a 
persons earnt hourly or daily rate into consideration. This service doesnt consider 
any one persons time to be any more or less valuable than any other persons time.Finally, I note that Mr W isnt happy with some aspects surrounding how Virgin 
Money have handled his complaint about the matters described above. I can 
appreciate Mr Ws frustration in this regard. However, as the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, the remit of what this service can consider is limited to regulated financial 
matters. And a complaint about how a company had handled a complaint  even a 
complaint about a regulated financial matter  isnt a complaint about a regulated 
financial matter. Rather, its a complaint about how a business has handled a 
complaint, and therefore isnt within the remit of what this service can consider.
Both Mr W and Virgin Money have confirmed that theyre happy to accept my provisional 
decision as outlined above. As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour on the basis outlined above, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
In his response to this service, Mr W also explained that Virgin Money havent yet 
reimbursed the £12 fee to him as I believed was the case. However, Mr W also stated that 
its his understanding that Virgin Money will be reimbursing that fee to him, but that the 
action to do so is paused pending the resolution of his complaint with this service. As such, I 
leave the matter of the reimbursement of the £12 fee to Virgin Money to complete in good 
faith, and I dont feel the need to delay issuing this final decision until that point is resolved. 
Putting things right
Virgin Money must make a payment of £450 to Mr W
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading
as Virgin Money, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman