DRN-2343294
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited decided that a claim she
made under her home insurance policy was fraudulent.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim to Lloyds for accidental damage to her laptop computer. She said the
damage occurred when the laptop fell from a table onto a vinyl floor.
Lloyds arranged for the laptop to be examined by its technical experts. It concluded that the
damage couldnt have occurred as described by Mrs C. In view of this, it believed that Mrs C
had sought to make a fraudulent claim. It therefore cancelled the policy, meaning that the
claim wasnt paid. It also cancelled another home insurance policy which Mrs C held with it.
Mrs C was unhappy at Lloyds action. She referred her complaint to us. She later learned 
that her details had been entered onto an industry fraud database.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
When Mrs C made her claim, she told Lloyds that the laptop had fallen to the floor from a
table. Lloyds arranged for the laptop to be inspected by its technical expert.
The expert noted that the laptop was badly damaged with a bent casing. It concluded that
the damage was too much to have been sustained from a single drop from the table to the
floor.
Lloyds asked the expert as to what could have caused the laptop to have sustained such
damage. The expert said the damage was comparable to what might have been expected if
the laptop had been run over by a car, dropped down a flight of wooden or stone stairs,
dropped from a high window, or damaged maliciously. The expert pointed to videos available
on the internet of similar laptops being dropped onto concrete from three and five feet yet
sustaining less damage than Mrs Cs laptop.
Lloyds re-questioned Mrs C about the incident but she maintained it was as she described.
I can understand Lloyds concerns. Its expert has very clearly said that the damage was
inconsistent with Mrs Cs versions of events. And it noted that Mrs C wouldnt have been
covered if, for example, the damage had occurred away from her home, which meant she
could potentially stand to gain by misrepresenting how the damage occurred.
I consider it was reasonable for Lloyds to take the view that there was too much doubt as to
whether the damage had occurred accidentally within the home as described by Mrs C and,
on this basis, decline her claim.
However, Lloyds went further than this and decided the claim had been fraudulent. On this
basis, it cancelled the policy along with another home insurance policy held by Mrs C (it
apparently meant to do this with effect from the date the claim was made on 17 June 2019
but instead cancelled them on 15 August 2019) and refunded Mrs C the unused premium.
Accusing a policyholder of fraud is a serious matter which can carry significant
consequences for that policyholder. As such, an insurer should only do this if it holds strong
evidence that the policyholder was deliberately seeking to gain advantage through a
misrepresentation.
In this case, the experts report casts considerable doubt on Mrs Cs version of events.
However, while the report indicates that the damage was unlikely to have been caused as
described, I dont necessarily consider that Lloyds has conclusively shown that Mrs C wasnt
telling the truth and lied in order to obtain benefit she wasnt entitled to.
Mrs C has explained that her vinyl is laid on concrete, making the surface very hard. Lloyds
has acknowledged in its internal files that Mrs C has held the policy for a number of years
without making a claim and there are no indicators to suggest that her honesty should be in
question. While unlikely, I cant rule out the possibility that freak circumstances caused the
laptop to sustain the damage even though it only fell from the height of the table.
Additionally, I note that Mrs Cs daughter (who was representing Mrs C in the complaint) told
our investigator that she thought perhaps her mother had fallen while holding the laptop but
hadnt wanted to disclose this. I consider that this could have exacerbated the damage which
the laptop sustained. I recognise that if this is what happened, it would still mean that Mrs C
hadnt been truthful with Lloyds. However, it wouldnt make her claim fraudulent because she
hadnt misrepresented the circumstances of the incident to make a gain under the policy;
she had done so for other reasons.
I recognise it is a very difficult decision but on balance I consider that Lloyds was wrong to
decide that Mrs Cs claim was fraudulent. It should not therefore have cancelled her policies. 
I therefore consider that Lloyds should remove any record of the cancellation and fraud from
any internal and external database.
Lloyds has refunded the unused portion of Mrs Cs premiums and I presume that she has
now taken out replacement cover elsewhere. I therefore dont need Lloyds to offer to
reinstate the cancelled policies. However, if Mrs C has paid a higher premium for her cover
since the time of cancellation because of the allegation of fraud, I consider that Lloyds
should compensate her for this until the date that her home insurance cover next renews.
I understand that Mrs C has recently had her motor policy cancelled which she believes is as
a result of Lloyds entering her details on an external database designed to record insurance
fraud. In response to this provisional decision, Mrs C should provide evidence of this
cancellation along with evidence of any additional cost she has incurred as a result. It would
be helpful if Mrs C could provide any evidence she has to show why the motor insurer
cancelled the policy. If I am persuaded the motor policy was cancelled because of the fraud
accusation, and Im satisfied Mrs C has suffered a loss because of it, I will award
compensation for that loss.
Finally, I consider that Lloyds accusation of fraud will have caused Mrs C some degree of
distress and inconvenience for which I think it should pay her £200 compensation.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mrs C provided a letter from her former car insurer confirming that the reason it cancelled 
her policy was because Lloyds had put her details on the industrys fraud database. She also 
provided a letter shed received from Lloyds Bank shortly after her policy had been voided which advised that her application for a savings account had been declined; Mrs C believes 
this was linked to the decision to add her details to the fraud database and says she has 
since been unable to open a similar account elsewhere.
Lloyds didnt accept my provisional decision. It reiterated that its expert had said the damage 
to the laptop could not have occurred by it falling from a table as claimed by Mrs C. It further 
said its expert had verbally advised that even if Mrs C had fallen while holding the laptop, as 
had been theoretically suggested, this still wouldnt have caused the damage in question. It 
also considered that, even if the damage had occurred while Mrs C had fallen, without 
knowing the full circumstances of the incident it wasnt possible to say the claim would have 
definitely been eligible. It said that it had discussed the claim with Mrs C without applying 
any pressure and had given her many opportunities to explain what happened. It had invited 
Mrs C to provide her own engineers report to support that the damage could have occurred 
as she had described and she hadnt done this. It believed the expert evidence was 
compelling that Mrs C hadnt presented her claim honestly and was seeking to gain 
advantage through this misrepresentation. In view of this, it was satisfied it had acted 
reasonably by voiding her policy and adding her details to the fraud database.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that the expert evidence casts significant doubt on Mrs Cs version of events. 
And Mrs C hasnt provided counter evidence to support her case. Lloyds furthermore says 
that according to its expert, even if Mrs C had fallen while holding the laptop, as speculated 
by her daughter, it wouldnt have caused the damage in question. I note its expert hasnt 
provided this comment in a report or other lasting format. Lloyds also points out that without 
knowing the full circumstances of the fall, one cant assume that the claim would have been 
eligible (which I accept though, by the same token, once cant rule out that the claim may 
have been eligible).
As I said in my provisional decision, it is a very difficult decision. But accusing someone of 
fraud is a very serious matter which can have significant repercussions for that person. In 
order to agree that Lloyds was reasonable in accusing Mrs C of fraud, I would need to be 
satisfied that she acted dishonestly for the purposes of obtaining benefit to which she was 
not entitled. Even Lloyds own comments during its consideration of the claim indicate that 
the usual flags it would often expect to find with a fraudulent claim are not present in this 
case. After taking everything into account, while it admittedly seems unlikely, I still feel that 
one cant rule out the possibility that freak circumstances caused the laptop to sustain the 
damage in question even though it fell only from the height of the table onto the very hard 
floor. I therefore remain of the opinion that while it was reasonable to decline the claim, 
Lloyds should not have accused Mrs C of fraud and voided her policy.
Mrs C has provided evidence to show that Lloyds action in putting her details on the 
industrys fraud database directly led to her car insurer cancelling her policy. She hasnt 
provided evidence to show that she ended up having to pay more for a new motor insurance 
policy or that she had to pay more for her home insurance following Lloyds voiding of her 
policy. However, if Mrs C is able to show Lloyds that she did incur higher premiums for either 
of these types of cover, I consider that it should reimburse her accordingly.
Mrs C has also referenced the fact that she was declined a savings account by Lloyds Bank 
and has since had difficulty in opening such an account with other banks. It might be that this 
is associated with the fact that Lloyds had entered her details onto the industrys fraud database. However, even if this were the case, I consider that the £200 I provisionally 
awarded to Mrs C for distress and inconvenience is adequate to address the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do the following:
remove any reference to the cancellation and fraud from any internal and external
databases;
subject to Mrs C providing it with appropriate evidence, reimburse any extra amount she 
has had to pay for her home insurance cover from the time it cancelled her policies until 
her current policies are next renewed;
subject to Mrs C providing it with appropriate evidence, reimburse any extra amount she 
has had to pay for her motor insurance as a result of having her policy cancelled from 
the time of this cancellation until her current policy is next renewed;
add interest to the above reimbursements at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated
from the date Mrs C paid each of the premiums until the date of settlement;* and
pay Mrs C £200 compensation.
* If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman