DRN-3835371
The complaint
Mr N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) did not fairly compensate him after 
it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a Visa credit card. 
Mr N has also complained to this service about PPI alongside an RBS Mastercard. I have 
issued a separate decision about that second card. 
What happened
Mr N initially complained to this service that RBS had not investigated the sale of PPI 
alongside his Visa card at all. After our adjudicator made some enquiries of RBS, it upheld 
the complaint and offered to pay Mr N £593.34 to compensate him for the mis-sale. I 
understand it may have paid this compensation into his account without giving him prior 
notice. 
In the meantime, on 3 July 2020, RBS wrote to Mr N to say his compensation could only be 
calculated from 1999 onwards because it was not required to retain credit card information 
before that time. It said that if Mr N wanted compensation before that time, he would have to 
try and send credit card statements showing how much hed paid for PPI.  
Mr N did not accept what RBS said about paying compensation from 1999. He thought it 
should be paid from 1989 which is how long hed had the Visa card. He said hed been 
paying for PPI from 1989 as well.  
Our adjudicator then looked RBSs offer to Mr N and he thought it was fair. Mr N then 
managed to find a credit card statement which showed hed paid £5.11 for PPI in September 
1999. In light of the new information provided by Mr N, RBS recalculated its offer. It paid a 
further £213.65 to him by cheque. I understand Mr N has not cashed that cheque. 
Mr N did not accept that offer and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr N will be disappointed, but my decision is that the most recent offer RBS made is 
fair. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing I want to clear up is the date from which the compensation should be paid. I 
can see that RBSs letter of 3 July 2020 has caused some considerable confusion. But it 
seems to me that the content of that letter is plainly wrong. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that RBS can show that the PPI policy was sold on 1 July 
1999. RBS provided two screenshots to that effect. It looks as though Mr N would have first 
been billed for the cover on 3 July 1999. 
RBS doesnt have statement data from before June 2001, which means in its compensation 
calculation, it had to make some assumptions. But having considered the compensation 
calculation in full, Im satisfied RBS hasnt ignored the periods for which it doesnt have 
statement data, as its letter of 3 July 2020 suggested it had. 
Where PPI has been mis-sold on a credit card, as far as possible, I would expect RBS to 
return Mr N to the position hed have been in if PPI had never been sold in the first place. 
So, it would need to work out how much hed owe on the credit card account if PPI hadnt 
been added to it. 
RBS would need to do this by removing all the PPI premiums from the account, as well as 
any interest and fees Mr N incurred because of those premiums. It would then need to 
refund the difference between what Mr N owes and what he would have owed without the 
PPI. When undertaking that calculation, if RBS calculates that Mr N would have paid enough 
to clear his card balance if PPI hadnt been added, RBS needs to add 8% simple interest to 
the extra he paid. It would need to do this until the point hed have owed something on the 
card again. 
So, looking at the calculation RBS provided, the only statement data it has between 1 July 
1999 and 3 June 2001 is that single statement provided by Mr N. So, to work out how much 
he paid for PPI, it had to make assumptions. I can see that Mr Ms statement from 
September 1999 shows he had a balance of £711.50 on 13 August 1999. So RBS  assumed 
hed accrued most of the outstanding balance in July 1999 when the account was opened. It 
then calculated the PPI premiums on that basis. 
After September 1999 up to June 2001, RBS had no statement data. It knows that Mr N 
owed £715.83 on 5 September 1999. So it assumed that Mr Ns statement balance reduced 
gradually from 5 September 1999 to 3 June 2001, and that he paid PPI premiums in line with 
that gradual reduction. In the absence of any further information, it seems to me that those 
assumptions are fair and reasonable. 
Using those assumptions and the actual statement data, I can see RBS then calculated that 
Mr N had paid £383.77 in PPI premiums. It calculated that hed paid £23.82 in card interest 
because of the PPI. Mr N said that he often paid his credit card balance off in full, so I 
wouldnt expect the amount of card interest he paid on the PPI premiums to be a significant 
amount. RBS also calculated a net figure of 8% interest at £399.40. 
Putting all of this together, Im satisfied that RBS undertook all of the steps I would expect of 
it. I know a cheque has been issued to Mr N, which I understand he hasnt yet cashed. It is 
unclear as to when that cheque was issued. So if Mr N accepts my decision, RBS will need 
to cancel the original cheque and reissue payment to him. It will also need to update the 8% 
interest to be paid until the day Mr N gets that money back. 
I know that Mr N was unhappy that RBS paid the first instalment of compensation directly 
into his bank account without giving him prior notice. But I cant see how hes lost out 
because of RBSs actions in that regard. I dont require RBS to take any further action on 
that point. 
My final decision
The calculation of compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc undertook on 5 September 
2022 was fair. But it must reissue the outstanding amount to Mr N by cheque, along with 
updated 8% interest as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman