DRN-3052240
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly deducted an 
overpayment made into their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L say they paid for a holiday to Bali costing £2,020.48 that was cancelled. They 
made a chargeback request and Halifax refunded the holiday cost. But say Halifax then 
contacted them to say it had overpaid them by £182. Mr and Mrs L say they spoke to Halifax 
and assumed the money wouldnt be taken but in early 2021 the money was deducted from 
their account. They say Halifax has offered compensation for what took place, but they 
would like the money returned to them and further compensation. Mr and Mrs L say Halifaxs 
actions have caused distress and inconvenience and that Mr L has been prescribed anti-
depressant medication as a result of what took place. They say that there should be a three-
month time limit for any deduction to have been made
Halifax says it overpaid Mr and Mrs L by £182 and told them it would deduct the money they 
owed it. It accepts it didnt take the money when it said it would and has apologised for that 
mistake. Its also offered £62 compensation and £48 for Mr and Mrs Ls call costs.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought Halifaxs offer 
appropriate and thought they owed Halifax the money. The investigator accepted Halifax 
ought to have taken the money earlier but didnt think there was a time limit for doing so.
Mr and Mrs L dont accept that view and in summary say they can get a letter from Mr Ls 
doctor confirming his illness and would like compensation based on Mrs Ls hourly wage. 
They say the issue has caused significant distress and meant time off work to deal with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer and I dont require it to increase it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs L will be 
disappointed by my decision and I dont think it necessary to wait until Mr and Mrs L provide 
any medical evidence before issuing this decision for the reasons I will explain.
There is no real dispute here that Halifax should have refunded the cost of Mr and Mrs Ls 
holiday which was £2,020.48 and not £2,202.48. I accept that is likely to have been a 
genuine mistake and I dont think it clear why Mr and Mrs L didnt notice that they had been 
overpaid. So, I dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr and Mrs L 
that it intended to deduct its money that had been overpaid. And I dont think the 
overpayment was a particularly significant amount in the overall context and having looked 
at Mr and Mrs Ls account statements
.
I appreciate Halifax didnt deduct the money when it said it would but waited until early 2021 
to do so. I accept Mr and Mrs L would have been caused some inconvenience and 
frustration with the delay and failure to deduct the money when it ought to have been 
deducted. But I dont think that delay means that Halifax was not entitled to deduct the 
money which I think was its and not Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont think there are any time limits 
that apply here. 
Im satisfied that Halifax has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer in total of £110. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs L suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs L say that they should be compensated in line with hourly wages, but 
I make clear that is not the approach this service takes to compensation awards as Mr and 
Mrs L were not acting in a work capacity when they spoke to Halifax or dealt with this 
complaint.
I also appreciate Mr and Mrs L say this issue has caused significant distress and that Mr L 
has been prescribed medication. I am sorry to hear that, but I dont think Halifax made a 
significant mistake and simply deducted money that was rightfully its. And I cant see why 
that issue would have such an affect or why it would be linked to any medical problems. For 
those reasons I dont think a medical report is likely to assist me.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax has fairly apologised for what took place and has offered a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount. Mr and Mrs Ls acceptance of that offer would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint. And I also find this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. Mr and Mrs Ls acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman