DRN-3810202
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined to cover her claim for injury to her pet dog when it was hit by a vehicle.
What happened
Mrs Bs 5-month-old dog, who Ill refer to as H, was insured by C&G. On 6 August 2022 
Mrs B took H from her house for his evening walk. She says that H was on his lead, which 
was not extendable. She says that they crossed the road outside her house when a van 
approaching from behind pulled over to the wrong side of the road to avoid a parked car. H 
was spooked and stepped back into the road and was hit by the van which ran over his paw. 
He was taken to two vets and sadly his front left leg had to be amputated. 
Mrs B submitted a claim to C&G for the cost of Hs initial treatment. Rehabilitation treatment 
is ongoing.
C&G declined Mrs Bs claim. It referred to the following conditions of Mrs Bs policy:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging 
and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental 
Injury.
You must comply with all laws that relate specifically to Your pet, including but not 
limited to Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, which states that a dog that is on 
a designated road must be on a collar and lead and under control.
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or 
any other persons or animals.
By implication, C&Gs view was that Mrs B had failed to ensure that she had provided proper 
care and attention to H, and that he wasnt under control.
Mrs B says that H was under control and that all reasonable precautions were taken. H was 
on a non-retractable lead and collar on the pavement until he was spooked and stepped off 
the pavement and into the road. As he is a puppy, he can move extremely fast. She says the 
policy requires owners to take reasonable care to prevent injuries or damage but just 
because an injury occurred doesnt mean reasonable care wasnt taken.
Hs accident has caused Mrs B and her family great emotional distress. The cost of Hs 
treatment has also caused additional anxiety. Shes dissatisfied with C&Gs response to her 
claim and wants C&G to meet it. She brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that Mrs B had exercised reasonable care when walking H and 
that accidents can still occur when reasonable care is being taken. He didnt consider that 
C&G had acted fairly in rejecting Mrs Bs claim and recommended that C&G pay it.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view. It suggested that H was dangerously out of 
control and couldve caused a serious accident. It asked that the case be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy states that it will cover veterinary fees for treating an illness or accidental 
injury suffered by your pet whilst insured with us. Accidental injury is defined as:
a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a specific time and place 
which results in damage to one or more parts of your pets body."
In my view, a dog being hit by a car is an accidental injury that would fall within this section 
of cover. 
I then have to consider whether the conditions Ive quoted above that C&G relies upon to 
decline Mrs Bs claim have been reasonably applied in this case. It is for C&G to prove that 
they have been.
 
I dont consider that C&G has provided any evidence that H wasnt under control or that Mrs 
B wasnt taking reasonable precautions other than the fact that the accident occurred. H was 
on a non-retractable lead and therefore under Mrs Bs control. She wasnt in breach of any 
law. C&G hasnt suggested any precautions that Mrs B shouldve taken that she failed to 
take. In my view it wasnt reasonably foreseeable that H, upon being spooked by something 
as a young puppy might be, would step back into the road at the exact time that a vehicle 
was approaching from behind on the wrong side of the road.
My conclusion is that C&G hasnt provided sufficient evidence that Hs injury was due to a 
lack of control or of proper care and attention, or indeed was anything other than a very 
unfortunate accident. The policy conditions that C&G relies upon to deny Mrs Bs claim dont 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd:
1.  to settle Mrs Bs claim subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy;
2.  if Mrs B has already paid her vet, to reimburse to her the sum so paid with interest 
thereon at the simple rate of 8% from the date she paid her vet to the date payment 
is made to her.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Nigel BremnerOmbudsman