DRN-3315272
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (hereafter Mapfre) handled his travel insurance claim.
What happened
The following is only a summary as both parties are aware of what happened.
In July 2019, Mr M took out a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre and 
travelled to a country Ill call D. Mr M was scheduled to spend just under three weeks in D, 
and he was planning on marrying his resident partner whilst there too.  
In August 2019 and during his trip Mr M was thrown from a horse. He needed initial 
treatment and then regular hospital visits in D because of his injuries, and the doctors there 
said he was not fit to fly. 
With the support of his family in the UK Mr M made a travel insurance claim for assistance. 
Mapfre began to request information such as medical reports, and although both parties 
found it difficult to get information from the hospital in D at times, Mr M provided as much 
information as he was able to obtain. 
In September 2019 Mapfre declined Mr Ms claim. It said based on the nature of his injuries 
there was no indication that he was unfit to fly home as originally planned. 
A complaint was raised about delays in Mapfres assessment of the claim, its decision to 
decline and its overall level of communication. 
In December 2019 Mapfre issued a final response letter. It stood by the claim decision but 
acknowledged it had caused many avoidable delays. Mapfre apologised and said it had 
provided feedback to the relevant parties. As a gesture of goodwill it offered to cover Mr Ms 
accommodation costs up until the date of the claim decline, and his return flight home too.  
Mr M was declared fit to fly by the hospital in D at the end of December 2019. His mobile 
phone and passport were stolen in D in January 2020, and he flew back to the UK in 
February 2020.
Unhappy with what had happened in D Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He said 
Mapfre had abandoned him when it declined his claim and had caused him significant 
distress and inconvenience. He said Mapfres actions had also caused him to suffer 
consequential losses in the UK too, and to put things right he wanted the following paid: 
The costs of his hospital appointments, prescriptions, and transport to hospitals in D.
The cost of the stolen and replacement mobile phone.
The cost of his emergency travel document.
The costs of moving his original return flight, his actual return flight, and his coach 
journey in the UK from the airport to his home area.
The mobile roaming charges he incurred in D.
Loss of earnings in the UK.
The costs of the marriage documents as that wasnt able to go ahead.
The costs of his policy and his excesses waived.
His living expenses in D.
The costs of arrears built up on his UK finance agreements.
An overall award for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had declined Mr Ms claim unreasonably. They thought it 
should have done more to obtain an independent examination for Mr M at the time, and 
recommended it pay the following:
The costs of Mr Ms hospital appointments, prescriptions, and transport to the 
hospitals in D.
The costs of moving Mr Ms original return flight, his actual return flight, and his 
coach journey in the UK from the airport to his home area.
The cost of Mr Ms emergency travel document.
£400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mapfre agreed with all of the investigators recommendations. It also said that it would pay 
half the costs of Mr Ms replacement passport, plus £50 towards related transport costs in 
getting the replacement too, which our investigator thought was fair. 
Mr M did not agree with our investigators opinion in full. He acknowledged that some of the 
costs being claimed werent specifically covered under his policy, but said they should be 
reimbursed because Mapfre had deserted the policys responsibilities to him and this wasnt 
a normal claim scenario. Mr M said Mapfre had been directly responsible for him remaining 
in D longer than he should have done, and all of the events that had subsequently happened 
and he was now claiming for were because of its abandonment.
Mr M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and so the matter was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has set out his position at length and I thank him for taking the time to do so. I have 
summarised events in less detail than they have been presented. If I do not mention 
something it is not because I have ignored it, it is because I do not consider it central to the 
outcome of this complaint.
Mapfre will be aware that it has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, 
and should not reject them unreasonably. 
As I noted above, Mapfre declined Mr Ms claim in September 2019 because it didnt think 
there was evidence of him being unfit to fly home as planned. Our investigator didnt think 
Mapfre had acted reasonably in reaching that decision when it did, and both parties agreed 
with that. 
Because that aspect of Mr Ms complaint no longer remains in dispute I will not set out my 
findings on it at length, but for the avoidance of doubt I dont think Mapfre acted reasonably 
in declining Mr Ms claim when it did either. I too think Mapfre should have done more to 
seek further evidence about Mr Ms condition and his fitness to fly at the time, for example by 
pursuing its initial offer to arrange an independent medical examination. Both parties also agreed that the following costs should be paid:
Mr Ms hospital appointment, prescription, and transport costs to the hospital in D.
The cost of moving Mr Ms original return flight, his actual return flight, and his coach 
journey in the UK from the airport to his home area.
The cost of Mr Ms emergency travel document.
Again, for the avoidance of doubt I too agree that those should be paid for the reasons our 
investigator has rightly explained. And I note that Mr M has also agreed that the following 
expenses will not be paid:
His marriage documents. 
His living expenses in D and his visa overstay costs.
The remainder of the costs remain in dispute so I will set out my findings on them in full.
The cost of the stolen mobile phone and the replacement purchased
I was sorry to learn that in January 2020 Mr M had items stolen from him whilst in D. This 
event was clearly another difficult experience for him. 
Whilst I have much empathy for what happened, Im not persuaded that I can fairly direct 
Mapfre to pay the cost of Mr Ms stolen phone or the replacement he purchased. There are a 
number of reasons for this which Ill now explain.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy set out that valuables extension cover (which 
includes mobile phones) is available as a specific policy upgrade:
This section only applies if you have chosen the optional valuable cover upgrade prior to 
leaving your home area, have paid the appropriate additional premium and it is shown on 
your endorsement certificate.
Mr Ms insurance certificate shows that he did not purchase this additional upgrade, meaning 
he was not eligible for the valuable extension cover that might have otherwise been 
provided. 
I know that Mr M says he was only in D at the time the items were stolen because of 
Mapfres failings and there was every probability that he would have returned home sooner 
had it not been for Mapfres mistake, but Im not persuaded I can fairly agree. 
It would not be fair of me to automatically hold Mapfre responsible for everything that 
happened following its declinature of Mr Ms claim. In the circumstances of this complaint I 
dont think that the theft of Mr Ms valuables was a reasonably foreseeable consequence. 
And the available medical evidence does not demonstrate that, had Mapfre not declined the 
claim when it did, Mr Ms injuries would have healed any faster either. Nor does it 
demonstrate that he would have been declared fit to fly any sooner. 
I appreciate Mr M says theres every probability that would have happened and theres a 
direct causal link between Mapfres actions and the costs he incurred. But other than Mr Ms 
testimony there is no contemporaneous medical evidence to corroborate this.
Separate to the above, Mr M also says he was only in D at the time of the theft because 
many of the difficulties he faced in arranging a flight home post-December 2019 were related 
to the costs involved in doing so. Within its final response letter Mapfre told Mr M it would reimburse the cost of his return 
flight. Mr M says he would have forfeited his ability to refer his complaint to this service had 
he accepted Mapfres offer, but I cant see that Mapfre told Mr M its offer was in full and final 
settlement of his complaint. Mapfre asked Mr M to contact it at his earliest convenience in 
relation to the reimbursement and I cant see that Mr M did that. And I cant see that he 
contacted Mapfre to see if it would have been willing, or able, to provide the flight 
reimbursement upfront given he was struggling to afford the return either.
The mobile roaming charges
Turning to the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy once again I can see a list of general 
exclusions. Within that list the cost of phone calls is confirmed as being excluded from cover. 
Given these costs are specifically excluded from cover and Mr M would not have had an 
eligible claim for them even if Mapfre had done things differently, Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair of me to direct it to pay these.
The loss of earnings
The list of general exclusions also sets out that loss of earnings is excluded from cover. So, 
this isnt something Mr M would have been able to claim for under his policy either. And 
similarly, as I have already explained, there isnt any medical evidence to corroborate that 
Mr Ms injuries would have healed any faster or he would have been declared fit to fly any 
sooner had Mapfre not declined his claim when it did. 
I do recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about the causal link between Mapfres actions and 
the events that followed. But for the reasons given above Im not persuaded that I can hold 
Mapfre responsible for Mr Ms loss of earnings and this isnt something I can fairly direct it to 
pay. 
The costs of the policy and a waiver of excess
Despite the dispute Mr M has with Mapfre, it was on risk during the period of insurance and 
Mr M did make a claim on his policy. Mr M may not have received the benefit of the policy in 
the scope he had hoped for, but Mapfre did provide him with some assistance at the time of 
his claim and given both parties have so far agreed that Mr M should get further benefit from 
the policy too, it would not be right of me to direct Mapfre to refund the cost of this policy.
Similarly, it would not be right of me to direct Mapfre to waive any applicable excess. The 
terms of Mr Ms policy set out:
Under most sections of this policy you have to pay the first part of any claim. This is called 
an excess. This will apply to each person claiming and to each incident and to each section 
of the policy you claim under. This amount is shown under each of the sections where it 
applies. 
If you pay an extra premium your policy can include an excess waiver which will remove all 
excesses apart for the hazardous activities medical excess (see Section V on pages 35-36) 
or the winter sports activities medical excess (see Section Q6 on page 30).
Mr Ms certificate of insurance shows he did not pay an extra premium to include the excess 
waiver with his policy, and so I think it fair that his claim is subject to the relevant excesses.  
The arrears on Mr Ms finance agreements
I am sorry to hear that Mr M has fallen behind with some of his financial agreements. The financial position that Mr M found himself in was clearly difficult, but for the reasons I 
have already given I cannot fairly conclude that his extended stay in D was because of 
Mapfres mistake. I also note that financial affairs arent covered under Mr Ms travel 
insurance policy, and the terms and conditions of his policy set out that his cover would end 
when he either returned home following a trip or once his policy term had ended  whichever 
was the earlier.   
The passport costs
Cover for replacing a lost or stolen passport is available under the policy, with the terms 
stipulating that only the pro-rata value of the original passport at the time of the loss or theft 
is covered. That being said, following our investigators involvement Mapfre confirmed it 
would be prepared to cover half of the cost of Mr Ms replacement passport, plus £50 
towards any transport costs involved in him getting that replacement. 
I appreciate Mr M says that the full cost of the replacement should be paid, but I disagree. 
The full cost of a replacement passport is not something that his policy provides cover for, 
and like his mobile phone the theft of Mr Ms passport is not something that I consider to 
have been reasonably foreseeable either. 
The offer Mapfre has made is more than it was required to provide under the policy, and so I 
will not be asking it to increase this. 
The distress and inconvenience
An award of compensation is not designed to punish a business for its mistake. It is intended 
to fairly and proportionately reflect the impact that a businesss mistake has had on 
someone. 
The very nature of experiencing an accident or illness abroad can be very difficult. In the 
circumstances of this complaint and as Mr M has detailed, he was in a foreign country when 
he had an accident, many of the medical staff he was dealing with did not speak English, 
and the medical services available to him were different to what he was used to in the UK. 
Although its not disputed that Mapfre did not act reasonably when declining Mr Ms claim, I 
have set out why I cant fairly conclude that its mistake was the cause of all the events that 
subsequently followed. Nor that some of those events were foreseeable either. 
That being said, I do agree that Mapfres mistake had an impact on Mr M. For example, 
Mapfres declinature caused Mr M much distress. Its delays in progressing the claim and 
keeping him updated caused Mr M worry and frustration. And Mr M found himself needing to 
rely on support from family in the UK which was likely to have caused him additional 
inconvenience, worry, and concern. 
Mapfre has already apologised for any undue inconvenience caused which I think was the 
right thing for it to do. But like our investigator I too think that an award of compensation is 
warranted, and for the reasons given above I think £400 represents a fair and proportionate 
reflection of Mapfres mistake.  
Putting things right
Mapfre should put things right by paying the following costs. Payments made will be less any 
applicable policy excesses, and where relevant subject to Mr M providing evidence of the 
costs incurred:The costs of Mr Ms hospital appointments and prescriptions in D, plus the costs of 
his transport to and from the hospitals in D.
The costs of rearranging Mr Ms original return flight (£315), his actual return flight, 
and his coach journey in the UK from the airport.
The cost of Mr Ms emergency travel document.
Half the cost of Mr Ms replacement passport, plus £50 towards any related transport 
costs involved in getting that replacement.
8% simple interest should be added to the above payments, from the date Mr M first claimed 
for them to the date of settlement. 
If it has not already done so, Mapfre should also pay Mr M:
£400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to put things right in the way I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman