DRN-3378236
The complaint
Mr D complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited allowed him to fund his trading account 
by making payments via a pre-paid card, contrary to the terms and conditions of his account.
What happened
Mr D held a trading account with Forex Capital Markets Limited and between 2004  2020 
he used pre-paid card to fund his trading account. He says the terms and conditions of his 
account say Forex would not accept pre-paid cards for payment, but they did accept his 
payments for many years. He said they are in breach of the terms and conditions and to put 
things right, he would like all his deposits using this payment method refunded to him. He 
estimates this to be in excess of £$40,000. 
In addition, he would like £1000 to compensate him for the time hes invested in dealing with 
this issue and proving evidence to Forex that the payment method was a pre-paid card not a 
credit card.
 
He complained to Forex, who issued him a final response letter on 10 February 2021 
rejecting his complaint. They say their automated system recognised Mr Ds card as a credit 
card and so the payments were allowed. In addition, they say the losses he suffered has 
been a result of any trading decisions hes made himself and wouldnt be upholding his 
complaint. 
The investigator at this service agreed with Forex and didnt uphold this complaint. She 
considered Forexs actions as reasonable and didnt think Mr D had been disadvantaged in 
any way from his payment method being accepted. 
Forex accepted the investigators view but Mr D didnt, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint and for the same reasons the investigator 
has said.
I think its important first to outline what my role as an Ombudsman is. It is to impartially 
investigate the complaint against Forex to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion based on 
the evidence provided. The rules by which I must abide by are set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, which regulates the UKs financial industry. I am not looking to punish a business 
where there has been any wrongdoing but simply to correct any wrongs that have been done 
and be fair in my resolution.
Ive started my investigation by looking at evidence provided by both parties and what Mr D 
and Forex both say happened. Ive considered whether the payment was made by a pre-
paid account or not. Mr D has provided evidence from his bank that confirms the card 
payment was from a pre-paid card despite Forex saying the payment was made from a 
credit card.
Forex say the deposits were made using an automatic verification system, and there was no 
indication the payments were made using a pre-paid card. They have provided evidence of 
their system verification which recognised the payment method as credit card so the 
payment was accepted. It is unclear why this happened, but the payment continued to be 
accepted via this method for many years. Neither party has disputed the evidence of the 
other and I have no reason to question the validity of either. 
I know Mr D feels strongly about the way in which Forex operate but from the evidence I can 
see that Forex accepted the payment method because they believed it was a credit card 
payment being used to deposit the funds. Accepting credit card payments is in line with their 
terms and conditions and so it is entirely reasonable in this situation for them to have 
accepted the payment. From what Ive seen it is clear Forex did take reasonable steps in 
establishing the payment method, for whatever reason the payment method wasnt picked 
up but I havent seen anything that would suggest it was deliberate or negligent.
I also acknowledge that the terms and conditions of the account do not allow payments to be 
made via pre-paid card, so I have considered whether accepting these payments has in any 
way disadvantaged or caused detriment to Mr D. Forex say:-
 "One of the reasons, FXCM does not allow a prepaid card to be used as a deposit is 
that it can generate an issue for the client, if the client attempts to withdraw from the 
account via credit card, as credit card withdrawals are processed as a refund."
In this situation, Mr D didnt attempt to withdraw any funds from the account, so no issue was 
ever caused or created as a result of using the pre-paid card. Having considered this in 
detail, I dont believe there has been any detriment to him. 
Mr D deposited these funds to allow him to trade through his account and so it served the 
purpose that he intended. The information Ive seen shows the payments were made by him 
and he intended to deposit those funds to trade on his account which was execution only. As 
such any losses hes incurred on the account were a result of his own trading decisions and I 
cant reasonably hold Forex responsible for these or expect them to reimburse his losses. 
Mr D has asked for £1000 compensation for the time hes invested in dealing with this issue, 
researching, reporting and obtaining evidence of the pre-paid card to provide to Forex. I 
appreciate he has taken some time to obtain evidence, but taking time to collate evidence 
needed in bringing a complaint would be expected in the normal course of this situation and 
in this case, I dont think it warrants an additional award.
Mr D has most recently also provided some further information in relation to Forex. Whilst I 
appreciate his concerns, the information doesn't have a direct impact on my investigation 
into the complaint hes brought to this service. Any concern in this regard needs to be 
referred to the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint against Forex Capital Markets 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman