DRN-3087463
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr L payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
With later additions to the borrowing, the PPI was increased.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr L says he has no recollection of being offered the PPI, or of being given an explanation of 
the policy or why he would need it. He says he was sold something he didnt need. He says 
he was surprised to discover only recently that he had had PPI on the mortgage. 
If Mrs and Mr L are saying the PPI was added without their consent, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a 
general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person (or organisation) has 
done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt usually be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. But I dont have that evidence. 
And I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about 26 years 
ago, which is when the application was made. So it might not be fair to rely on what they 
now remember. 
Also, Mrs and Mr Ls mortgage form suggests the PPI was discussed, with references to 
either advice on PPI being given or a quote being requested. So I think its more likely the 
PPI was discussed and offered as a choice, even if Mrs and Mr L dont now remember it. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr L, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Ls circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would 
have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Ls situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr L (the person covered) was eligible for the policy at the time it was sold, 
so would have been entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr L received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs and Mr L 
would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying 
the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs and Mr L in a more 
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr L couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr L would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then have been up to Mrs and Mr L to decide whether they wanted to 
accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr L took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman