DRN-3255152
The complaint
Mrs U has complained that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided her with two 
unaffordable loans.
  
What happened
UK Credit provided Mrs U with two unsecured guarantor loans. The details are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount term Monthly repayment
1 July 2018 £5000 42 months £247.23
2 July 2019 £5500 60 months £227.56
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Were the checks that UK Credit carried out for loan 1 proportionate? 
UK Credit says it conducted a telephone call with Mrs U and asked her questions about her 
income and expenditure. It says it then verified her income and carried out a credit search. 
I can see that UK Credit verified Mrs Us income to be £2340 using an online verification 
tool. It then recorded down £160 for rent, disclosed by Mrs U. It worked out using Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data that on average her living costs would be £207.18. It then 
found from the credit search it conducted that Mrs U would pay £598.80 in credit 
commitments and a further £247.23 with this loan. It had worked out that her disposable 
income would be around £1213.21. So, after it also reviewed her credit file, it felt the loan 
was affordable.
I can see why it made this conclusion with the information it had in front of it. But I think 
based on what it saw, it should have carried out further checks. I say this because the credit 
search results it had showed that Mrs U had a County Court Judgement with an outstanding 
balance to repay. She also had some history of arrears on her accounts. I acknowledge that 
it did ask her about this at the time. But I think it didnt do enough here when I consider the 
amount Mrs U was asking to borrow and the term of the loan. I think it should at this stage, 
have carried out a full review of her finances and looked to verify her expenditure. This is so 
it could assure itself that Mrs U would be able to make the repayments in a sustainable way. 
What would UK Credit have found if it had conducted further checks for loan 1?
I now need to go on and consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown UK Credit and whether it would have made a difference to the lending decision it 
took. Our service asked Mrs U for bank statements from a period of time leading up to the 
loan application. This isnt the check that I am necessarily saying UK Credit should have 
made when it agreed to lend to Mrs U, but it does give me an idea as to what it would have 
seen if it had carried out further checks.
I have looked through the statements. I can see in general the account was well managed. I 
can also see Mrs Us expenditure was roughly in line with UK Credits assessment. It had 
worked out that Mrs U would have had disposable income of £1126.79. So, I can see that 
based on its assessment, Mrs U would have comfortably been able to afford the repayments 
for the loan. There is nothing to suggest to me that Mrs U was at this stage dependent on 
credit or that she was having problems managing her finances. I havent seen anything 
within the bank statements provided by Mrs U that would suggest to me that further checks 
and further verification of her expenditure would make the loan unaffordable. So, I dont 
currently think UK Credit irresponsibly agreed to this loan.
Were the checks that UK Credit carried out for loan 2 reasonable and proportionate and did 
it make a fair lending decision?
I can see from the documents UK Credit have submitted for the second loan, that it again 
verified Mrs Us income. This time though it had a discussion with Mrs U about overtime and 
reduced this income amount to £2000 a month. It also asked Mrs U about her expenses and 
used a credit search to check for her credit commitments. It says after it did this, it worked 
out that Mrs U had enough disposable income to afford the repayments for loan 2 also. 
Ive carefully considered what UK Credit has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mrs U to have enough of her monthly wages left over as disposable income to be able to 
afford the loan. But like our investigator, this assessment for me didnt correlate with what 
UK Credit would have seen in the credit search that it carried out. I dont need to make a 
finding on whether it made proportionate checks at this stage, as I dont think UK Credit 
made a fair lending decision.
I say this after looking through UK Credits assessment and also the credit search that it 
carried out. I can see that there was a significant increase in the amount of unsecured 
lending that Mrs U had taken out from when she had taken out loan 1 to her asking for loan 
2. Her outstanding credit commitments had increased now to a combined monthly 
repayment of £1021.80. This represented quite a substantial amount of Mrs Us monthly 
income (around 51%). And this is before UK Credits loan repayment was added. After this is 
added her overall credit repayment would be around 62% of her income. I think on balance, 
when I consider the term of the loan of 5 years, I dont think its likely that Mrs U would have 
been able to sustainably repay the loan. 
In conclusion, I dont currently think UK Credit did anything wrong when it agreed to loan 1. 
But I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision when it agreed to loan 2.
So, it follows that UK Credit needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mrs U responded and said she agreed with the findings in the 
provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it still does not agree with my 
decision to uphold loan 2. It gave the following reasons why:
It says it disagrees that 60% of Mrs Us income going towards credit repayments 
is unsustainable for her in her circumstances.
It descried what it thought Mrs Us circumstances were at the time and why it felt 
she could afford a higher proportion of her income to go towards repaying credit.
It also went on to explain why it thought Mrs Us indebtedness increased between 
loan 1 and when she applied for loan 2. It concluded that the loan repayments were affordable for Mrs U and that it made a fair lending decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at the documentation in Mrs Us complaint and considered what UK 
Credit has said in response to my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge the comments it has made about what it thought Mrs Us circumstances 
were at the time and what it had been told. But when I balance these comments against 
what I have concluded in my provisional decision, I think its more likely than not the loan 
was not sustainable for Mrs U.
I say this because Mrs U had significantly increased her indebtedness in a short space of 
time and also increased the amount she was paying a month in credit repayments. So, that 
along with the repayment for this loan was looking to repay 60% of her income to credit. I 
think on balance that this is particularly high amount for her to be committed to when I also 
consider the size of the loan she had applied for here and the lengthy loan term of 5 years. 
I think on balance, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, UK Credit made an 
unfair lending decision in agreeing to loan 2. 
With that being the case, UK Credit now needs to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Us complaint for UK Credit to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mrs U made, direct to UK Credit and any third-parties, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £5,500 originally lent. 
If there is a balance still to be repaid, then UK Credit will need to exercise 
forbearance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs U.
If Mrs U has already repaid more than £5,500 then UK Credit should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs U;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs U to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Us credit file regarding loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit
must give Mrs U a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Us complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as described above.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman