DRN-4272048
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse the money 
she lost after she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs M says that she messaged someone via a social media app about investing. She was 
persuaded to make three payments on 12 February 2023 for £300, £800 and £800. All three 
payments were made to a genuine company involved in the sale of cryptocurrency. Mrs M 
was meant to make a return quickly, but this didnt happen, and the trader deleted the 
account. The following day Mrs M called NatWest to report what had happened. 
NatWest considered Mrs Ms claim but didnt agree to reimburse her. It said Mrs M had a 
civil dispute with the cryptocurrency provider and it was not the point of loss. NatWest upheld 
Mrs Ms complaint in respect of the service she received and paid her £50 compensation. 
Mrs M was dissatisfied with NatWests response. She was unhappy with NatWests decision 
not to reimburse her and with the service she was provided with as she said NatWest 
shrugged her off and didnt listen. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
the transactions werent so unusual and out of character that NatWest ought reasonably to 
have had any concerns and intervened. The investigator referred to certain transactions 
made by Mrs M in the months before the scam to support this conclusion. Finally, the 
investigator said the amount NatWest had paid in respect of the service provided was 
reasonable. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. She said the investigator failed to take into 
account the whole picture and had considered payments between her own accounts, a 
payment to an insurance company and two payments to a family member when assessing 
whether the scam payments were unusual. It was the first time she had made a payment in 
respect of cryptocurrency and Mrs M said NatWest should have looked into this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case because it only covers payments to another person and transactions 
between GBP denominated accounts. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Whilst I accept Mrs M is the victim of a scam this doesnt automatically mean that NatWest 
should refund her. I can only ask NatWest to refund Mrs M if I conclude it should have done 
more to prevent the payments from being made. Ive considered the position carefully.
I dont agree with NatWest that because Mrs M received the cryptocurrency she paid for, she 
has a civil dispute with the seller. By January 2019, firms had, or ought to have had, a good 
enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a customer often moves 
money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have 
been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. So Ive gone on to consider whether 
NatWest should have recognised a risk of harm when Mrs M made the payment requests. 
Whilst I recognise Mrs M has lost an amount that matters to her, I dont believe the scam 
transactions were at a level that ought reasonably to have concerned NatWest. The highest 
payments Mrs M made was for £800 and the overall loss on 12 February 2023 was £1,900. 
The scam transactions were also in line with Mrs Ms usual account activity. In the six 
months before the scam, Mrs M had made a payment of £1,000 to a company, and two 
payments of £1,000 to a third party on consecutive days. I accept that transfers between 
accounts dont represent normal spending and havent taken them into account. So 
payments of up to £800 dont stand out as being out of character. Mrs M has provided 
reasons for the transactions and implies they shouldnt be considered when determining her 
usual pattern of spending, but I dont agree.
I appreciate that Mrs M hadnt previously made payments in respect of cryptocurrency but 
am not persuaded that there was enough going on that NatWest ought reasonably to have 
been concerned enough to block the payments while it intervened. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the ones Mrs M made to her own 
account were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments would be 
stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay.  
There was nothing NatWest could have done to recover Mrs Ms funds as they were 
transferred to a genuine company to buy cryptocurrency. 
Mrs M was also dissatisfied with the service she received from NatWest, so Ive listened to 
the call that took place when she reported the scam and thought about the service NatWest 
provided. I dont consider the call was badly handled or that NatWests service was otherwise poor. In any event, NatWest has paid Mrs M £50 in respect of the service it has 
provided so Im not asking it to do anything more.
Im sorry Mrs M has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably ask NatWest to refund her.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman