DRN-3613750
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr C fell victim to a scam. 
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
On 10 February 2022, Mr C made an international payment for £1,800. He thought he was 
paying a security deposit and upfront rent for an apartment hed seen advertised online. But 
unknown to him at the time he was dealing with a fraudster and had sent the payment to an 
account controlled by the fraudster. 
Mr C has said that prior to making the payment he had spoken to, and exchanged emails 
with, somebody who he thought was the owner of the apartment. They told him that they 
worked abroad and so rented out the apartment. Believing everything to be genuine, Mr C 
went ahead and made the payment to the international account details provided. But he 
realised he had been scammed when he didnt receive the keys to the property as arranged.
Mr C complained to Lloyds and it issued its final response on 10 March 2022, not upholding 
the complaint. In summary it said it had processed the payment in line with Mr Cs 
instructions. And as this was an international payment, it was not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM code). It added that it had tried to recover the money from the 
receiving bank (the bank to which the funds were sent), but unfortunately no funds remained.
Through his representatives, Mr C then brought his complaint to our service. He said the 
transaction was out of character and the bank should have intervened, and if it had of done, 
the fraud would have been prevented. One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, our investigator didnt think Lloyds could 
have done anything to prevent the scam. This was because she didnt think the payment 
was remarkable enough to have expected Lloyds to have intervened. Our investigator was 
also satisfied that Lloyds did what it could to recover the money, once it was aware of the 
scam.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
has now been passed over to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr C, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr C s 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr C, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr C authorised the 
transaction. Because of this, Lloyds had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice 
Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive thought about whether the payment Mr C made was out of character or unusual enough 
so that Lloyds ought to have intervened.
Lloyds has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. On balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction here was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have alerted 
Lloyds that Mr C was at risk of financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through Mr C s bank statements for the months leading up to 
the scam, I can see that making international bank transfers wasnt something that he 
typically did. But even so, I dont think that alone is enough to say Lloyds should have 
treated this payment as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Mr Cs activity that day should 
have stood out. The payment he made was for £1,800. Its not uncommon for people to 
make an international payment for a specific purpose and on the face of it, theres nothing 
particularly unusual about this payment in and of itself. The payment didnt utilise all the 
funds he had available to withdraw and while it was the largest payment he had made, I 
dont consider, on balance, that it was so remarkable that I could fairly and reasonably have 
expected Lloyds to have intervened.
As a result, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the 
payment before processing it. There isnt enough here for me to think Lloyds should have 
suspected Mr C might be the victim of a potential scam. 
From what I have seen, Lloyds contacted the receiving bank quickly when it learned of what 
had happened, but sadly no funds remained to be recovered. I am satisfied that Lloyds did 
what it could to try and recover the money that Mr C had sent.
Its very unfortunate Mr C has lost this money in this way. But in the circumstances, I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably say Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman