DRN-3063372
The complaint
Miss Es complained that the repairs arranged by AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (the AA) under her motor insurance policy werent completed to an acceptable 
standard. And the rectification work wasnt satisfactory either.  
What happened
Miss E was involved in an accident. Her car was damaged. So she contacted the AA for 
them to arrange repairs, which it did. And she told them that the repairs needed to be done 
quickly, because she was due to move to Europe and wanted to take the car with her when 
she did.
About four weeks later, Miss Es car was delivered to her. But she didnt accept it because 
she said the repairs hadnt been done properly. She said the driver who had delivered the 
car back to her had agreed the rectification work to her car was poor, as had the garage that 
completed the work. Miss E complained to the AA about this poor work. And she reminded 
them she had a deadline for the work to be completed.
The car was returned to the garage for the repairs to be rectified. This took another two 
weeks. And the AA kept the car for another week after that so the repairs could be inspected 
by an independent assessor before they returned it to Miss E.
The car was returned to Miss E for a second time. Miss E still remained unhappy with the 
standard of the repairs, and she noted a number of concerns with the quality of the work that 
had been completed. But Miss E explained she felt intimidated by the delivery driver, who 
refused to take the car back. So it was left at Miss Es property.
Miss E raised her concerns with the AA again. They investigated her complaint and 
concluded they hadnt done anything wrong. They said that the independent assessor whod 
inspected the car after the second set of repairs found that the work had been done to a 
commercially acceptable standard. So they didnt think there was anything more they 
needed to do in respect of Miss Es claim.
Miss E brought her complaint to us. She didnt agree that the repairs had been done to an 
acceptable standard and no longer had any faith in the AA or their approved repairer.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She noted that 
Miss E had gone to the trouble and expense of getting her own report on the repairs which 
showed there were outstanding issues that needed to be remedied.  Our investigator also 
said Miss E had been distressed and upset by the poor repairs and the delays in dealing 
with the claim, which hadnt been sorted out before shed moved abroad. And shed not 
taken the car when shed moved, because she didnt trust the repairs and didnt believe the 
car was safe to drive.
Our investigator thought that the AA should reimburse Miss E for the cost of the report shed 
had done and should pay for the repairs it had identified to be carried out. She also said the 
AA should reimburse Miss E the costs of her travelling to, and staying in, the UK whilst the 
repairs were done  and they should provide her with a courtesy car while she was here.
Finally, she said that they should pay Miss E £10 a day for being without a car and £500 for 
the trouble and upset they had caused her.
The AA didnt agree with the investigators view - though they did accept further work was 
needed on Miss Es car. But they didnt say what needed fixing, and what didnt. They 
suggested that they would get a quote from a repairer for rectification work. Miss E didnt 
accept that offer. So the matter was passed to me to make a decision.
I didnt agree with our investigators view. So I made a provisional decision. I was satisfied 
further remedial work was needed, because the report Miss E obtained saying this was 
accepted in part by the AA. In the absence of any evidence from the AA about what they 
considered were the outstanding issues, I provisionally decided the AA should pay Miss E 
£6,154.28 - the amount her engineer said the work would cost (net of VAT), plus 8% interest. 
And I said that, if Miss E was charged VAT on the repairs, the AA should also pay VAT on 
this amount.
As to other costs, I provisionally decided that Miss E should be reimbursed the cost of the 
report she obtained. But I didnt think it was fair to decide the AA should pay other costs our 
investigator factored in, so I didnt include those in my provisional decision. I did recognise 
that Miss E had been significantly impacted by how the claim had been dealt with, so I 
provisionally decided that the AA should pay her £700 compensation for that.
Both parties commented on my provisional decision. Miss E was unhappy Id provisionally 
decided she shouldnt be reimbursed the costs arising from leaving her car in the UK when 
she moved abroad, as she didnt agree it was safe to drive. And the AA supplied details of 
what rectification work they think is necessary, along with costings for that. 
The comments I received changed my view on the fairest way to resolve Miss Es complaint.  
So I made a second provisional decision.  I was satisfied that some rectification work is 
needed.  But the AAs submission persuaded me that there were alternatives to fully 
repainting the car, as Miss Es engineer said was necessary.  And those different 
approaches resulted in substantially different costs.
Miss E commented on my decision she shouldnt be entitled to all the sums the investigator 
had set out in their view.  And she took issue with what Id said about the safety of the car.  
While I considered her comments carefully, they didnt persuade me to change those 
aspects of my decision.  
My second provisional decision was the same as my first, save the sum awarded towards 
the costs of repair was £882.29 (plus 8% interest), not £6,154.28.
The AA havent provided any comments on my second provisional decision.  Miss E has 
provided detailed comments, which Ive considered in making my final decision  which is 
set out below.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Miss Es complaint.  But I dont think its reasonable to 
provide any greater redress than I set out in my second provisional decision.  Ill explain why.Ive been faced here with a situation where repairs undertaken under Miss Es policy havent 
been done to a satisfactory standard.  Thats agreed.  Whats in issue is whats needed to 
put that right.
As I explained in my provisional decisions, Im not an expert in the area.  So, in reaching a 
decision, I have to rely on information from experts  the engineers whove assessed the car 
and the work done.  Those opinions have varied significantly.  Ive not discussed their 
opinions with either engineer.
To try and reach a resolution, I asked the investigator to contact the parties and explore the 
possibility of a third engineer, not instructed by either party, providing an opinion on the 
extent of the work needed to remedy the car.  The AA didnt think this was necessary.  And, 
while Miss E did randomly select several names who might do this, she wanted their 
expertise used in a different way.  So I dont think that would help make the decision I need 
to.  And Ive not asked for that course to be pursued.
The repairs
Miss E has said that she rejected my second provisional decision because the amount I 
directed the AA to pay would not rectify the accident damage and poor repairs.  I understand 
why shes said that, because her engineer has told her it will cost far more.
But thats not the only thing I need to consider.  When she first brought her complaint to us, 
Miss E had been told by the AA that all repairs had been completed to a satisfactory 
standard.  The AA now accepts further work is needed and has costed that work at £882.29.  
Im satisfied that, by submitting those costs, the AA has told us it can get the work done for 
that amount.
Miss E has told us throughout the complaint that she doesnt want the AA to do any more 
work on her car.  I understand why shes said that.  Shes free to have the work  and any 
other work she thinks necessary  done wherever she chooses.  But I can only direct the AA 
to pay her what it would have cost them to rectify the repairs.  And it was for that reason I 
said the AA should pay her £882.29  plus VAT if the repairer Miss E selects charges her 
VAT.
Other costs
In both my provisional decisions, I said Miss E should be reimbursed the cost of obtaining 
her own engineers report.  But I wasnt minded to reimburse her the other sums our 
investigator thought she should receive.  I concluded they were costs Miss E had incurred 
through her choices about how to deal with the car during our investigation of her complaint.  
A number of those costs arose because Miss E didnt trust the car was safe to drive.  I 
considered that issue, but I wasnt persuaded it was unsafe.  I noted that neither engineer 
had made any suggestion to that effect in the evidence I considered when I made my first 
provisional decision.  
And I didnt think it likely that a competent engineer, preparing a report on a car which had 
been involved in an accident, wouldnt record if they thought a car was dangerous.  
I accept Miss E can draw her own conclusions about whether she can drive the car.  But I 
didnt think it was reasonable to say the AA should make a payment to Miss E for the costs 
which had accrued as a result of her leaving the car in the UK when she moved overseas.
Putting things rightAs Ive explained, I do think the AA should contribute towards the costs of repairing the work 
they agree still needs to be done.  But I dont think they need to pay more than it would cost 
them to have that work done themselves.  So I think they should pay Miss E £882.29 for 
those repairs.  And they should pay her 8% interest on that amount from the date her car 
was returned to her until the date they pay her.
And they should reimburse her the cost of her engineers report  again with 8% interest 
from the date of the report until the date of payment.
And  while Im not directing the AA pay Miss E everything she thinks I should  I do 
appreciate the significant trouble and upset shes been caused by the AAs handling of the 
repairs to her car.  It remains my view she should be compensated for that.  Nothing Ive 
received in response to either of my provisional decisions has suggested I should amend my 
decision that compensation should be £700.  So thats what Im directing the AA pay Miss E. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Es complaint about AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited and directing the AA to pay her:
£882.29 - the amount (net of VAT) the AA calculates it will cost to repair her car; 
plus interest at 8% from the date her car was returned to her to the date of 
settlement, less any tax properly deductible*;
VAT on this amount, upon receiving evidence from Miss E she incurred this when 
she had her car repaired; 
£180 to reimburse her the cost of getting her own engineers report, plus interest at 
8% from the date she paid for the report until the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible*; and
£700 for the trouble and upset thats been caused to Miss E.
*If the AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off. It should also give Miss E 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman