DRN-4381980
The complaint
Mrs B says the interest rate Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (Vanguard) pays on the cash 
held within her Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) is too low.
What happened
Mrs B has a SIPP with Vanguard. On 4 August 2023 she sent her pension provider the 
following enquiry:
Hi can you confirm what the interest rate is on cash in my pension? The base rate has gone 
up considerably but you don't seem to have increased the rate on cash in the fund. Cash is a 
reasonable component of a balanced pension portfolio, especially where the owner is 
approaching pensionable age. I am concerned that Vanguard is not providing a fair rate 
anymore.
Vanguard responded the next working day and said:
We pay 2.6% interest on any cash held in your account. This is a managed rate, which we 
regularly review and update when needed to make sure that the interest you receive is fair 
and offers good value.
Any cash in your account will earn interest daily and will normally be paid into your account 
on the first working day of the month.
Vanguards mission is to create long term wealth for our investors, and give them the best 
chance for investment success. Our service is designed as an investment platform, rather 
than as a home for cash savings. We also offer a range of investment funds that may be 
suitable for investors with short term investment horizons, or immediate funding needs.
We offer a managed cash interest rate which we review regularly and update when needed. 
This rate brings the service in line with standard industry practice, whilst still providing a 
highly competitive rate on cash balances.
The cash interest we keep enables the service to focus on its core purpose as an 
investment platform and we believe this benefits our clients in turn. Our mission remains to 
give the most value to investors, and we continue to reinvest into our business and funds to 
continue this.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Vanguards response to her enquiry and raised a complaint. She 
thought the interest rate was too low in the current circumstances. She noted the need to 
keep some of her provision in cash to maintain her balanced portfolio.
Vanguard responded to Mrs Bs complaint the following day. It basically reiterated what it 
had already told her.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this Service. An investigator considered her case but didnt 
uphold it. In summary, he thought Vanguard had been clear in the documentation associated 
with her SIPP about its approach to providing interest on cash balances. It hadnt treated her 
differently to other customers in the same situation. It hadnt made an error. And so he didnt 
think Vanguard had done anything wrong.
Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators conclusions. As both parties couldnt agree to his 
view, her complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Vanguard for Mrs B. The FCA Handbook contains twelve Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 2.1.1 in the FCA Handbook). 
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Vanguard. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Theres no dispute between the parties about the facts of this case. The difference between 
Mrs B and Vanguard concerns the interest rate she is receiving for cash held in her SIPP.
Vanguard has provided this Service with a copy of its key features document for the SIPP 
Mrs B has, effective from April 2023. On page 9, it says that a customer can hold cash in 
their personal pension while they decide where to invest it. It explains it will be out of the 
investment market so wont benefit from any stock market growth whilst uninvested. It also 
says a customer can earn a rate of interest on the cash held as described in the Vanguard 
Client terms.
In the same document, on page 11, there is a section entitled interest on cash. It explains 
the following:
Interest will be earned on cash balances at a managed rate, meaning that it will be fixed and 
updated from time to time. The rate will be determined by reference to the interest we 
receive from the bank(s) we deposit your money with and the cost to us of managing cash 
within your account.
Below this, it provides a link to a section on Vanguards website. The page clearly outlines 
the interest rate customers will receive on cash held within the SIPP. Theres also similar 
information available in Vanguards client terms document.
Consumers are expected to take responsibility for the decisions they make about products 
and services. To do enable this, businesses must give them the information they need, at 
the right time, and presented in a way they can understand. That way they can make 
informed decisions. Based on the available evidence, I think Vanguard has done this.Vanguard has explained the managed cash interest rate it provides is reviewed regularly. It 
says its service is in line with standard industry practice and provides a competitive rate on 
cash balances. It says the cash interest it keeps enables it to focus on its core purpose as an 
investment platform, which in turn benefits its clients.
I think Vanguard has established the sort of product on offer to Mrs B. Her SIPP is designed 
as an investment platform, rather than as a home for cash savings. It noted it offered a range 
of near cash investment funds that might be suitable for investors with short term 
investment horizons, or immediate funding needs.
As Mrs B approaches retirement her objectives and needs have evolved. And this might 
indicate she needs to take action in terms of where and how her portfolio is invested. Of 
course, these are matters I cant advise her on, and where shed need to take independent 
financial advice.
Finally, Vanguard needs to support customers throughout its relationship with them. I can 
see it responded to Mrs Bs initial enquiry and her subsequent complaint within a few days. It 
provided clear and informative responses. So, I think it met its duty here.
Based on the evidence available, Ive concluded that Vanguard hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman