DRN-2671939
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC handled their business accounts after 
they asked for a temporary interest-only concession on one of their commercial loans.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision in February 2021, the findings of which stated:
Due to issues with their tenant, Mr and Mrs A asked to switch one of their commercial 
loans temporarily onto an interest-only basis (the other loan was already interest-only). Its 
not in dispute that Mr and Mrs As relationship manager agreed to that in theory, but only if 
it was for a maximum of six months. As Mr and Mrs A werent able to commit to it being a 
maximum six-month period, the concession couldnt be put in place.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Lloyds did nothing wrong here. This was a 
capital repayment loan secured on a commercial property. Whilst Lloyds was willing to 
offer a short-term (that is, a six-month) payment concession it wasnt willing to allow things 
to carry on for longer than that. Thats a legitimate use of Lloyds commercial discretion 
and an understandable one. Just because Lloyds offered a similar concession in 2010 
doesnt mean it had to do so again.
Mr and Mrs A have said their relationship manager mis-calculated their surplus monthly 
income as he reversed the foreign exchange rate. They say they had $500 (AUS) spare a 
month which he worked out to be £1,000, rather than the £250 it actually was. But its not 
as simple as that. It seems from the contact notes that Mr and Mrs A provided various 
different figures to Lloyds. One set of figures we have on file indicates a $1,665 surplus in 
Australia and a £263 surplus in the UK. Based on the exchange rate at the time that gives 
around a £900 surplus in Australia, which added to the UK surplus of £263 gives a total 
monthly surplus of £1,163. In addition, it was noted that there was £2,150 on deposit in the 
UK, plus credit balances on the Australian bank accounts, all of which could have been 
used to support the commercial loan repayments for a few months.
In any event, even if there was only a £250 a month surplus, that doesnt explain why 
Mr and Mrs A then only paid £60 a month to the account in question, which was the 
equivalent of an interest-only payment even though that payment arrangement hadnt 
been agreed. It would also likely have been a concern to Lloyds that despite Mr and Mrs A 
having - on paper - a reasonable surplus each month, none of that money had been put 
aside to cover any potential issues such as property repairs or a rental void period. The 
tenant paid up until the end of December 2018 and the last full loan payment Mr and Mrs 
A made was January 2019, moving to the equivalent of an interest-only payment (without 
permission) from February 2019.
Mr and Mrs As loan didnt have long left on the term, so any period of interest-only would 
have had a noticeable impact on their monthly payments once the account reverted back 
to being paid on a capital repayment basis. As Mr and Mrs A seemed already to be tight 
with their monthly budget such that they had not built up any buffer for repairs or rental 
void periods, then any future increase in monthly payments could have been a concern for 
Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs A say Lloyds delayed approving the lease for a new tenant which caused 
them hardship due to a loss of rent. They say they dont understand why Lloyds insisted 
on a wet signature on a letter from them to give authorisation for their solicitor to deal with 
Lloyds, and then accepted a phone call instead. To explain, Lloyds does need a wet 
signature for such authorisations so it was right to tell Mr and Mrs A that. I cant hold 
Lloyds liable for the cost of Mr and Mrs A sending it from Australia as this is a UK bank 
and a UK property. The fact Mr and Mrs A moved overseas means they need to bear any 
additional costs that come from that.
When the letters Mr and Mrs A had sent hadnt arrived with the person who needed them 
at Lloyds she decided, in the interests of customer service, to instead accept a recorded 
phone call from Mr and Mrs A for the authorisation. Thats outside of Lloyds process and 
isnt something I would have ordered it to do had it not already done so. So rather than 
criticise Lloyds for not doing so sooner, I would instead recognise Lloyds acted outside of 
normal process to try to help Mr and Mrs A move forward. In any event this didnt delay 
things as whilst Lloyds was waiting for the formal authorisation from Mr and Mrs A it 
pushed ahead with providing a copy of the lease to its legal team and working on getting 
the wording amended to a position that was acceptable to Lloyds.
Mr A has said:
During my conversation with [Lloyds staff member] (12.2.2020), I was told that a 
charge of £720 had been added June 2019 to my account for Lloyds solicitors 
approval of the new lease. I was never given an invoice for this work, nor was I able to 
see the charge on my account as all of my internet banking access had been disabled 
by Lloyds. I had an arrangement with my tenant that she would pay all legal expenses 
relating to her new tenancy. As I wasnt told about this charge at the time, it is too late 
to pass this charge on to my tenant so once again, I am out of pocket.
But Mr A was told about the charge at the time. On 17 May 2019 Lloyds emailed Mr A 
saying:
Further to my email below, the cost involved to review the lease for its potential 
approval is between £500-£1000 plus VAT which can be added to the account, are 
you happy for me proceed?
On 19 May 2019 Mr A replied:
Yes the fees are acceptable
Mr and Mrs A were on notice by 19 May 2019 that there would be a fee of between £600 
and £1,200, once VAT had been included, and the actual fee charged in June 2019 was
£720. As Mr and Mrs A were on notice a fee was to be charged, then it was their 
responsibility to contact Lloyds to find out what the final fee was if they wanted to charge 
that to their new tenant.
Finally, Mr and Mrs A have said they found their relationship manager to be brusque and 
dismissive. They say there was a personality clash that they think affected how he dealt 
with them, and that his personal feelings towards them were the driving force for their 
accounts being put into recoveries. I understand that is how they feel, but having 
considered Lloyds internal notes I can reassure Mr and Mrs A that the decision to decline 
their request for a temporary interest-only concession and to move their accounts to 
recoveries werent made by their relationship manager. Whilst he was the point of contact Mr and Mrs A dealt with, the decisions were made elsewhere.
Lloyds didnt call these debts in because of the low interest rates Mr and Mrs A were on, 
they called them in due to the conduct of one of the accounts, in that it was in arrears. As 
these are commercial loans secured on commercial properties, theres not the same level 
of forbearance as there would be on a residential property. Whilst Mr and Mrs A found a 
tenant, by then Lloyds had called in the debts and it wasnt willing to continue to offer 
ongoing finance to Mr and Mrs A. Rather than pressing ahead with litigation, Lloyds 
agreed a period of time to allow Mr and Mrs A to either sell the property or to refinance it 
with another lender.
Having considered everything, whilst I can see how frustrating this must have been for
Mr and Mrs A, Im satisfied Lloyds did nothing wrong in not allowing them a temporary 
switch to interest-only or in calling in the debts. For that reason, I simply cant uphold their 
complaint, however much they may want me to.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings, and Mr and Mrs A  despite a reminder of the 
deadline  didnt respond.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the full file again, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman