DRN-4453301
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, wont refund her the 
money she lost after she fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam).
Mrs W brings her complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for 
readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mrs W.
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs W received a message during the evening, through an instant messaging 
application, from somebody who referred to her as Mum. The message said that they had 
broken their phone and had a new number, so Mrs W should delete the old details. Mrs W 
believed this to be her son, especially as one of the messages said it was her eldest. Shes 
also said the messages matched how her son would normally speak to her. But, unknown to 
Mrs W at the time, she was communicating with a fraudster.
Mrs W no longer has the messages. But shes explained that she conversed with the 
fraudster about day to day questions. The following day Mrs W received a further message 
asking if shed help pay an outstanding invoice. The message explained that due to the new 
phone, Mrs Ws sons online banking had been suspended. Mrs W has said at the time her 
son was seconded in a job and she thought it might be something to do with that, she knew 
this job was important to him and wanted to help. Mrs W added that shes lent money to her 
son before and hes always paid her back.
Believing everything to be genuine, and with the belief that she was helping her son with an 
urgent payment, Mrs W called First Direct to make the payment. Relevant extracts from this 
call are detailed below;
Mrs W  I want to transfer, I want to make a payment please, its a big payment so I want to 
do it over the phone, to make sure it goes to the right place.
First Direct  This is coming from your First Account, is that right?
Mrs W  No, can I, I want it, because its a big sum, its £2,900. So can I take it out of the 
ISA please.
First Direct  You want to transfer that into your First account and then make the payment 
from there?
Mrs W  Yes please, thank you.
First Direct  Ok, so thats £2,900.
Mrs W  Yes
First Direct  Obviously, just to, by transferring from the cash ISA you lose any of the 
allowance youve already used for the tax year. Just checking youre happy to continue.
Mrs W  Yes, the money is going back in in the next couple of days. Its just a temporary.
First Direct  Yes, just letting you know that by making a withdrawal you lose the allowance, 
so I was just checking you were happy with that.
Mrs W  Yes, thats fine, thank you.
First Direct  Is it a payment youve made before?
Mrs W  No, thats why I wanted to do it over the phone.
First Direct  Ok, no problem. Ok, so who is it to.
Mrs W  [provides name of payee]
First Direct  Ok, so whats prompted you to make the payment today?
Mrs W  Oh, Im doing it on behalf of my son, hes got a new phone and so his online 
banking has been suspended, blocked for 24 hours while, something to do with his new 
phone. So he needed to do this, so hes asked his mum, like they do.
First Direct  Ok, lovely. And the details youre sending to, are you happy that youve 
received those face to face, theyre the correct details?
Mrs W  Yes, yeah
[Mrs W provides account details, which are repeated back to her]
First Direct  Do you know if thats a personal account?
Mrs W  Its a private account.
[First Direct confirm the payment has debited Mrs Ws account]
After this initial payment was made, Mrs W has explained that she received messages 
requesting for a further two payments to be made. Still believing she was communicating 
with her son, Mrs W went ahead and made a further two payments, via her online banking.  
One for £2,400 to a different beneficiary, then a further payment of £1,490 to the first 
beneficiary. Mrs W said she became suspicious when she was asked for another payment 
and she mentioned it to a work colleague  who suspected it may be a scam. They 
suggested Mrs W call her son on the number she originally had for him. Mrs W did this and 
on speaking to her son, she realised shed been scammed.
Mrs W raised the matter with First Direct. First Direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
First Direct issued its final response on 24 November 2023, not upholding the complaint. In 
summary, it said that during the call (when Mrs W was making the payment for £2,900) its 
representative had followed its scam warning procedure. It added that Mrs W did not answer 
honestly the reason she was making these payments, so it didnt agree it had failed in its 
obligations to check these payments.In its submissions to this service First Direct added that when Mrs W had called, she said 
shed obtained bank details face to face, which was not the case. It said that had she told it 
of messages being received by the instant messaging service, it was confident a further 
discussion would have taken place about social media scams, and that it would have asked 
her to contact her son on a trusted number before proceeding. Alongside this, First Direct 
said it had provided Mrs W with an effective warning, when making the first of the online 
payments.
First Direct confirmed that it had reached out to the beneficiary banks (the banks to which 
the payments were made) and had recovered £13.29.
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mrs W then brought her complaint to this service. One 
of our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary our Investigator;
- Didnt think First Direct did enough when Mrs W first called. It was our Investigators 
view that information Mrs W had provided First Direct with during that call included all 
key features of a scam type that is typically instigated through instant messaging. So 
our Investigator thought First Direct should have probed further and provided a 
warning regarding this type of scam. Our Investigator said that had it done this, she 
thought on balance Mrs W would have realised what was happening and wouldnt 
have gone ahead and made the payments.
- Didnt consider the warning First Direct presented when Mrs W made the first of the 
online payments was impactful or effective. She didnt consider it was specific and 
didnt bring to life how these types of scam may look or feel to a consumer.
- Didnt think First Direct had established that Mrs W didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing she was making a legitimate payment to her son.
As well as this, our Investigator also added that the R2(1)(a) exception to the code hadnt 
been established by First Direct. Overall, our Investigator thought First Direct should refund 
Mrs W the money she lost, along with interest.
Mrs W accepted our Investigators view, but First Direct disagreed. In summary, it 
maintained that Mrs W wasnt truthful when she confirmed she had received details from her 
son face to face. It said it would only go on what it is actually told and the way the 
conversation pans out depends on this. Given what it had been told, it also didnt agree it 
should have opened up a conversation about the particular type of scam Mrs W was falling 
victim to. It added that it was Mrs Ws choice to mislead it, in order to get her payment 
through, which indicated that she may have believed it would ask more questions and may 
not make the payment is she was truthful.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our Investigator for largely similar 
reasons. I am satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, First Direct should have refunded the money   
Mrs W lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
First Direct should in any event have intervened further than it did when Mrs W was 
making the payment, as information Mrs W had provided it with ought to have put it 
on alert that she was at risk of financial harm. Had it done so, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances First Direct should fairly and reasonably refund Mrs W the 
money she lost.
First Direct should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Mrs W made the payment, 
to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If First Direct declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for 
First Direct to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code 
applies. I dont think it has done that here and Ill explain why.
First Direct says that it is not required to refund Mrs W for the money she lost. This is 
because Mrs W had misled it when she told it she had received the details for the payment 
face to face. It said if Mrs W had told the truth then it could have warned her accordingly. 
I appreciate the point that First Direct is making here, and if the CRM Code didnt apply to 
these payments, the argument might have some merit. But as I have explained above, I find 
that the CRM Code does apply to these payments, and put simply, the CRM Code requires 
APP scam victims to be reimbursed in full, except where any of a limited number of 
exceptions apply.
Those exceptions relate to the victims actions and beliefs about the payment at the time of  
the scam. Where those dont apply, then the victim is to be reimbursed. That reimbursement  
isnt contingent upon whether the firm was at fault or could have prevented the scam from  
occurring.
Indeed, even if it could not have been possible for the firm to have prevented the scam and  
the resulting financial loss, under the provisions of the CRM Code, the firm will most often  
still be liable to fully reimburse the scam victim. To quote section R1: Subject to R2, when a  
Customer has been the victim of an APP scam Firms should reimburse the Customer.
The relevant exceptions to full reimbursement are set out in the CRM Code at R2. If a firm  
seeks to rely on R2 as a reason not to reimburse a scam victim, then it needs to establish  
that one of the listed exceptions applies.
However, the exceptions are limited. Only three of the five possible exceptions listed under  
R2(1) could be relevant here. I will consider each of those in turn before turning to R2(2).
Firstly, R2(1)(a) requires the firm to establish that:
The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with 
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning 
[]When considering the first payment Mrs W has made, I dont think First Direct intends to 
argue that it gave Mrs W an Effective Warning in compliance with SF1(2). Rather, it states it 
would have given Mrs W an Effective Warning had she answered the agents question 
correctly.
However, for this exception to be established, First Direct would need to, as a starting point,  
demonstrate that it provided an Effective Warning in compliance with the code. If it did not,  
then regardless of why it did not (whose fault that was) it cannot establish that a hypothetical  
warning was ignored. It cannot have been ignored, because none was given. It could never  
have been possible for Mrs W to have failed to take appropriate action in response to a 
warning she did not receive.
Simply put, First Direct cannot rely on R2(1)(a) here.
Im mindful that my findings above relate to the first payment Mrs W made during a phone 
call. First Direct have also argued that it provided an effective online warning, when Mrs W 
made the first of the online payments (the second payment of the three). First Direct has 
sent us a copy of the warning it says Mrs W was shown when making the payment, but 
having considered this, I dont think this could be considered effective, when considering the 
principles of the CRM Code;
- While the warning, in part, refers to paying friends and family and does mention 
being suspicious about receiving contact from somebody saying they are a family 
member, it is overall not specific to the type of scam Mrs W was falling victim to. The 
warning talks about fraudsters misleading the bank about the reason for the 
payment, contact through dating sites, hacking social media profiles and moving 
money for safe keeping, none of which were relevant to Mrs W.
- The warning does not mention any of the key hallmarks of this type if scam. Such as 
parents being contacted, through messaging, out of the blue by their children, 
explaining that their phones are broken and they have no access to their banking 
facilities, and asking for a payments/bills to be made on their behalf.
- The warning does not mention the prevalence of the type of scam Mrs W fell victim 
to. Nor mention that a check the consumer may consider carrying out would be to try 
and contact their family member on the number they already hold for them and not to 
proceed with any payments before they have spoken to them.
- Im also mindful here that, rather than provide and present impactful information in 
the first instance, the warning requires First Directs customers to click on links to 
gather further information about frauds.
I dont underestimate the challenge First Direct faces in providing warnings strong enough to 
break the spell in scams such as this. But the difficulty of meeting that challenge does not 
mean the warning given by First Direct was sufficient or contained enough clarity to meet the 
minimum requirements in the CRM code. Overall, I am not satisfied that the warning met the 
requisite criteria here. I dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined 
within the CRM code. It follows that First Direct has not established it can fairly apply the 
exception to reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mrs W had a reasonable basis for belief when she made 
the payments. R2(1)(c) may only be applied where a firm can establish:In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was 
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate.
While its not clear that First Direct has argued that Mrs W made the payments she did 
without such a reasonable basis for belief, I have considered whether this might be a reason 
that the bank might choose not to reimburse her.
But I am not persuaded First Direct can fairly seek to rely on this exception. I am persuaded 
by Mrs Ws testimony that at the time she made the payments she was convinced she was 
interacting with her son about payments he needed her to help him with. More importantly, I 
think it wasnt unreasonable of her to have held that belief in all the circumstances at the 
time.
Mrs W was contacted on a new number by who she believed was her son. Mrs W has 
explained that what followed was an exchange of messages talking about day-to-day things, 
in a manner that her son would usually speak to her in. I think this added legitimacy to what 
happened the following day, when the fraudsters then asked Mrs W to make payments. This 
kind of scam is designed to prey on a parents natural inclination to help and defend their 
child. And so, its fair to say, the rationale or circumstances may not be questioned as much 
as they otherwise might be. The fraudster is playing on an emotional response, that the 
parent is unlikely to be particularly aware of at the time.
The apparent similarities in how the fraudsters were interacting with Mrs W, compared to 
how her son usually did, lead me to find it was both plausible and persuasive for Mrs W in 
the moment. Mrs W believed the messages were coming from her son and that she was 
concerned he needed her help for his job, which she knew was important to him. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to hold these 
beliefs.
Therefore, taking all of the circumstances surrounding the payments into account, I am not 
satisfied First Direct can rely on this exception to reimbursement.
The final exception that could conceivably be relevant to Mrs Ws case is R2(1)(e):
The Customer has been grossly negligent. []
The CRM Code does not provide a specific definition of gross negligence. In line with the 
interpretation adopted by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its guidance document to 
the Payment Services Regulations I take the view that gross negligence is: a higher 
standard than the standard of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have 
shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
I do not find this can be fairly applied here. As reasoned above, I have found the scam was  
plausible and persuasive to Mrs W in the circumstances. I do not find she was very 
significantly careless in that respect.
I have specifically considered whether Mrs W showed a very significant degree of 
carelessness in the answers she gave to First Directs agent when she made the payment 
using telephone banking  in particular when she stated: face to face. As detailed in 
extracts earlier, First Direct has provided the relevant call recording and I have carefully 
reviewed the overall interaction with this in mind.In the context of the call, Im not satisfied the importance of the question And the details 
youre sending to, are you happy that youve received those face to face, theyre the correct 
details? was made apparent to Mrs W. The question is closed and seems designed to elicit 
a negative response.
I dont agree with First Directs assertions that Mrs W has deliberately set out to mislead it 
with the answers she gave, in an attempt to avoid further questioning from the bank. This is 
supported by Mrs W telling First Direct that she was making the payment on behalf of her 
son, whose phone had broken and whose online banking had been suspended. It doesnt 
seem likely to me that somebody who was trying to circumvent fraud detection systems 
would give an answer that carried so many hallmarks of the scam they were falling victim to. 
Rather Im persuaded Mrs W was telling the truth and had no intent to mislead the bank in 
any way.
Im not persuaded the significance of this seemingly innocuous question would have been 
sufficiently evident to her at that very moment. At the time, I dont think she was aware of 
why the answer mattered or the consequences of not pausing to think and give the most 
accurate answer she could.
Given the question was asked with no context around its importance, along with the 
eagerness she had to make the payments to help her child, I dont find Mrs W was grossly 
negligent here  nor do I find she was very significantly careless in the answer she gave. On 
the contrary, I find her answer understandable given the situation she was in at the relevant 
time, and in response to a closed question.
Neither do I find Mrs W was very significantly careless in any other relevant respects. That  
means I dont find First Direct is entitled to rely on exception R2(1)(e).
For completeness, under section R2(2) the CRM Code contains a provision applying where:
[] during the process of assessing whether the Customer should be reimbursed, 
the Customer has acted dishonestly or obstructively in a material respect.
I dont think Mrs W was acting dishonestly in answering the agents questions  at most she 
did so with a slight degree of carelessness, but I dont find this could fairly be classed as 
dishonesty. In any event this clause cannot apply here. It refers to dishonest or obstructive 
acts occurring during the process of assessing whether the customer should be 
reimbursed. Nothing Ive seen suggests this is applicable here.
Could First Direct have done more to prevent the scam?
I am also mindful that when Mrs W made these payment, First Direct should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud or financial harm.
When making the first payment, First Direct questioned Mrs W as to what had prompted her 
to make this payment. As mentioned above, Mrs W told First Direct that she was helping her 
son with a payment, as hed got a new phone and his online banking facilities had been 
suspended.
The information that Mrs W had given here are classic hallmarks of what are often referred 
to as Hi Mum, Hi Dad scams. Given the prevalence of this type of scam and in the context 
of the answers she gave, I think First Direct ought to have been concerned at this point to 
the potential that Mrs W may have been at risk of financial harm.Given what it knew, First Direct would have been able to provide Mrs W with information 
about what to look out for in relation to these types of scam, what they look like and how 
they typically play out. Ive seen no reason why Mrs W would not have listened to First 
Direct, after all it was the professional in these matters, and I think it more likely than not  
Mrs W would have recognised all of these hallmarks in what was happening to her and in the 
payments she was being asked to make. Mrs W isnt an expert in matters relating to fraud. 
So had First Direct done this, as I think it ought to have done, I think she would have heeded 
its advice, appreciated what was happening and I dont think she would have gone ahead to 
make the first, or subsequent payments.
I think this is supported by what happens later, when on the suggestion from a work 
colleague to try and contact her son, she did so and the scam unfolded. Ive no reason to 
doubt that Mrs W wouldnt have done the same, had this course of action been 
recommended by her bank. Overall I think First Direct missed an opportunity to prevent the 
scam when it spoke to Mrs W ahead of her making the initial payment.
The relevance of this finding is that First Direct ought to have prevented the loss, rather than  
just reimbursed Mrs W under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that First Direct 
should pay Mrs W interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund 
her under the CRM Code.
Putting things right
For reasons explained above HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, should now:
- Refund Mrs W the money she lost, being £6,790 (less any money it has been able to 
recover from the beneficiary banks and already return to Mrs W).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date the payments were made to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman