DRN-3499982
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Chequers Wealth Management Limited (CWML) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 7 November 2017, the BSPS provided Mr M with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £112,526.98.
Mr M says he had concerns about the BSPS given everything that was happening, and 
colleagues had been discussing transferring their pensions. So, he sought advice and says 
he was introduced to CWML by another adviser.
CWML recorded some information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. It noted that 
he was 52, married with one son. Mr M was employed earning approximately £35,000. He 
was also drawing an income from another pension which provided roughly £3,700 per year. 
He owned his own home, without a mortgage and had approximately £20,000 in savings. He 
had a loan for approximately £10,700 which was due to be repaid in 2021. His income 
exceeded his outgoings.
CWML also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced.
It appears that CWML met with Mr M on 28 November 2017. During that meeting Mr M 
signed its terms of business as well as application forms to transfer the benefits he held in 
the BSPS to a SIPP. Mr M has said during this meeting CWML told him transferring was the 
best thing to do. He says CWML told him, as he had other pensions in place he didnt need 
this one could afford to risk it and would be better off and he says it didnt indicate there 
were any negatives associated with transferring.
CWML then issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 
5 December 2017. This said Mr M was hoping to retire at age 60 but might wait until 65. 
CWML said Mr M was in receipt of one pension already, paying £246 per month. And he had 
another defined benefit pension that it was anticipated would pay £3,250 per year from age 
60. It said Mr M felt these along with your existing British Steel pension and the state 
pension will provide sufficient secure income for later life. But it then said that Mr M wanted 
to transfer so that he had flexibility in when he could take benefits and tax-free cash and not 
be limited by the structure of the BSPS2 or PPF. It also said Mr M was interested in the 
alternative death benefits on offer through a SIPP.
CWML recommended that Mr M transfer his pension as this would provide him flexibility. It 
also indicated that DB pension benefits and even the safety net of the PPF was not 
guaranteed. CWML recommended a SIPP provider and said the recommended product was 
in line with his attitude to risk.
Mr M complained to CWML in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt think 
the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
CWML didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr M had wanted flexibility to be able to 
access his pension benefits in a way which suited him and his plans. And it said hed also 
been keen on the alternative death benefits provided by a personal pension. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr M wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was due under the DB scheme  either 
through the BSPS2 or the PPF. He also didnt think there was any evidence that Mr M 
needed flexibility or that this was a genuine motivation for transferring. And he didnt think 
the alternative death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in Mr Ms interests. 
The Investigator thought the objectives were generic and were not pressing needs that had 
to be addressed. 
CWML disagreed. It said the Mr M had indicated he wanted to access funds at the earliest 
possible opportunity, from age 55. And noted hed taken similar action with his pension that 
was already in payment at the time of the advice  accessing this as soon as he could. So, it 
felt the advice was suitable.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that the information from 
the time didnt reflect that accessing his pension benefits from age 55 was one of Mr Ms 
objectives. And he didnt think Mr M having accessed another of his pensions already meant 
he would always have done this. So, he still didnt think the advice was suitable.
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has developed a BSPS-specific 
redress calculator. Although the calculator has been developed specifically for the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme, the FCA has encouraged firms to use the calculator for non-
scheme cases, such as Mr Ms complaint with our Service. Our Investigator informed both 
Mr M and CWML, in May 2023, that if the Ombudsman considering the case decided to uphold it, they may require CWML to calculate any redress due using the FCA BSPS-
specific calculator.
CWML responded acknowledging this and said it had carried out a loss assessment using 
the FCAs redress calculator. It said, having done so, the calculation showed that Mr M had 
not incurred a financial loss and so he was not owed any redress. A copy of this calculation 
was sent to Mr M and our service.
We explained wed reviewed the calculation and were satisfied it had been completed 
appropriately in line with the regulators rules and guidance. Mr M noted that the calculation 
had been run based on a retirement age of 65, but at the time of the advice, retiring at age 
60 had been discussed. We explained that, as benefits from age 65 wouldve been higher, 
the cost of replicating these was usually more. So, using a retirement age of 65 was actually 
likely in Mr Ms favour. And because, even factoring in this higher cost, the calculation 
showed no loss, we felt CWML was correct with its conclusion about the calculation.
Mr M remained unhappy as he said other BSPS members had received significant 
compensation, so he said it didnt feel right. 
In light of Mr Ms remaining concerns, Im now providing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand CWML is still disputing that unsuitable advice has been given. However, 
nonetheless it has carried out a loss calculation in line with how the Investigator believed 
matters should be resolved. So, I dont see the need to address the suitability of CWMLs 
advice to Mr M in detail. 
However, I would like to note that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CWML was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ms pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.5% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 7.71%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 6.95% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 6.49%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point CWML instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr M, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And CWML didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed 
have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it 
shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the 
critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were 
likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ms balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.0% for 12 years to 
retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr M was always likely to 
receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical yields for retirement 
at age 55  that these were significantly higher  I think he was even more likely to 
receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired early. 
And indeed the suitability report noted that it was unrealistic to expect the transfer 
option to provide a secure income equal to or better than the existing scheme.
CWML has said that Mr M wanted to access his pension benefits from age 55. But 
this isnt supported by the information from the point of sale and notably this wasnt 
referenced in the recommendation. The information from the time said Mr M was 
hoping to retire at 60 but might not do so until he was 65. And there was no recorded 
need or expected expenditure which would require access to a lump sum. In any 
event, if this had been a genuine objective  which for the avoidance of doubt I dont 
think it was - benefits could be accessed from age 55 under the PPF or the BSPS2. 
I cant see that anything was recorded about Mr Ms expected income needs in 
retirement  which the primary purpose of a pension is to address. But the suitability 
report said that his other pensions, along with his BSPS pension, was expected to be 
enough to meet his income needs. So, I cant see that he needed to transfer to 
address his income needs. And I cant see that he had a genuine need for the ability 
to vary his income. This seems to be a nice to have rather than something he 
needed.
Based on what was noted in the recommendation, I think Mr M was unsure exactly 
when he would retire. I dont think this is surprising - Mr M was 52 at the time, still 
eight years from the first point he thought he might retire. So, there was still plenty of 
time for his plans to change. And as a result, I dont think it was in his interests to 
make an irreversible decision to transfer just to obtain flexibility he didnt need.
CWML said Mr M was interested in the better protection a transfer offered to his 
family by way of alternative death benefits. But the priority here was to advise Mr M 
about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death 
benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in 
the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. And given CWMLs advice 
seems to have been given on the basis Mr M would make larger withdrawals in the 
early years of retirement and there is nothing to suggest Mr M wasnt in good health, 
it appears likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted or eroded entirely by 
the time it came to be passed on. And so may not have provided the legacy that 
Mr M may have thought it would. 
If Mr M had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, CWML couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. This couldve been considered on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence it did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CWML should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr M may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CWMLs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr M with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr M was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring.  And if he retired early, the benefits 
available to him through the PPF may have exceeded those under the BSPS2. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from CWML 
was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
As Mr M has raised concerns about the method of redress, Ive considered this here.
The aim is to put Mr M back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. CWML carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by CWML which are personal to Mr M. These 
include Mr Ms personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65 (although the calculation 
also produced details of the cost of replicating benefits under the PPF). Mr M has said 
retiring at 60 was discussed when he received advice and was something he hoped for. But 
as Ive explained, I dont think his plans were confirmed at the time of the advice. And, as the 
benefits from age 65 wouldve been greater (so would cost more to replicate) I think using 
this assumption, in line with the FCAs guidance was appropriate and hasnt disadvantaged 
Mr M with regard to the calculation.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ms case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr M 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
Mr M has said that he is aware of other BSPS members who transferred their benefits 
receiving compensation, so he doesnt think it feels right. But my role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of his complaint and whether he has been caused a loss due to any 
error by CWML. The regulator has set out what it considers the appropriate method of 
compensation to be in instances of unsuitable pension transfer advice and this is also based 
on the approach a court would take in similar cases. Im satisfied the regulators redress 
method puts Mr M back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in had he 
not transferred his BSPS benefits. And CWML has completed a calculation appropriately, 
using this methodology, showing he hasnt suffered a loss. So, CWML has done what 
I wouldve required it to do and, in my view, has acted fairly to put things right. As a result, 
I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint as I consider Chequers Wealth Management Limited provided Mr M 
with unsuitable advice. But, as it has taken appropriate steps to put matters right, I dont 
require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman