DRN-1442043
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline his claim for a collapsed 
drain under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J got experts in to check his drains once he became aware of a problem. The experts 
said there was no obvious external reason for the collapse and there was no evidence of 
tree roots. Mr J made a claim and Amtrust reviewed the evidence. It said there was no 
visible sign of collapse, the accidental damage definition hadnt been met, and there was no 
evidence of tree roots. Amtrust said it wouldnt pay for wear and tear or gradually operating 
causes. Unhappy with this Mr J brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he felt Amtrust had made the 
correct decision based on the terms and conditions surrounding the accidental damage 
clause. He also considered Mr Js point about a tree that had been removed but he felt that 
the time lapse between the two incidents showed even if there was a link it had happened 
gradually and wouldnt fall within the accidental damage cover.
Mr J didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J got an expert report from (T) and this was provided to Amtrust. The report said the drain 
had collapsed but didnt give Amtrust enough information. So Amtrust checked with T and 
were told there was no obvious reason for the collapse drain or any tree roots. The only 
vague suggestion was ground movement and reference to cracks around the bay window. 
This led Amtrust to point out there wasnt any sign of an insurable event as covered by the 
policy.
The policy states:
This section of the insurance also covers
B the cost of repairing accidental damage caused by external and visible means from a 
single identifiable event to
underground sewers, drains and septic tanks serving the home and which you are legally 
responsible for.
In relation to Accidental Damage the policy definition is:
Damage caused suddenly and as a result of an external, visible and unexpected cause.
Based upon these two sections of the policy I think Amtrust acted reasonably when it 
declined to deal with the claim.
Amtrust also followed up on these points by referring to another section of the policy. It said:
Insurers will not pay
a) for damage due to wear and tear or any gradually operating cause.
I think this refers to Ts point about the possibility of ground movement. Any such ground 
movement Amtrust said would be a gradual rather than a sudden process and so wouldnt 
be covered by the policy. I think thats a fair point for Amtrust to make and in line with the 
other clauses it has referred to. I think Amtrust fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman