DRN-3030537
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her 
claim for vet costs under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W bought pet insurance from RSA in early May 2020. A few weeks later she took her 
dog to the vet (Vet A). The vet diagnosed brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome 
(BOAS) and ataxia and referred her to a specialist vet (Vet B) for treatment. Vet B sent a 
pre-authorisation request to RSA to make sure it would cover the treatment. RSA says it 
declined the pre-authorisation request immediately via a web-based portal on the basis the 
conditions had started before Miss W had bought the insurance policy. Vet B say they didnt 
receive that message. Miss W continued with the surgery for both the BOAS in June 2020 
and the ataxia in August 2020. She then submitted a claim for both, which totalled £12,000. 
RSA declined the claim because it said both conditions were pre-existing and not covered 
under the terms of her policy.
Miss W complained. She said her dog first showed signs of ataxia in late May 2020, after 
shed bought the policy. And she also challenged RSAs view that BOAS was a pre-existing 
condition. Miss W said her vets werent made aware the pre-authorisation requests had 
been declined and, if they had been, the surgery wouldnt have gone ahead as planned. She 
also thought it was unfair that RSA had told her in November 2020 that it would cover the 
cost of the surgery for ataxia but had then said it wouldnt. Finally, she complained that RSA 
hadnt changed the breed of her dog on her policy when it was first aware it was wrong.
RSA partly upheld the complaint. It was satisfied neither of the conditions claimed for were 
covered by the terms of the policy. It accepted Miss W had been misadvised in 
November 2020 that it would cover the cost of the surgery for ataxia but noted that was after 
the operation. It also accepted it had known the breed of her dog was wrong in June 2020 so 
should have changed it at that point. There were also some delays in considering her claim. 
So, RSA gave Miss W £300 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused by its actions.
Miss W wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
RSA needed to do anything more. They were satisfied RSA had acted reasonably in 
declining the claims for BOAS and ataxia. And they thought the evidence showed that RSA 
had declined the pre-authorisation requests in June 2020 as it had said. They also thought 
the £300 RSA had offered Miss W for the way it had handled the claim was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss W remains unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Pre-authorisation
Miss W has indicated she might not have gone ahead with the surgery on her dog had she 
known the costs werent covered under her policy. RSA has provided evidence to show that 
it declined the pre-authorisation requests when Vet B submitted them via the web-based 
portal in June 2020. The reason for declining the requests is given as Illness is before the 
start of cover/qualifying period. The evidence also shows that confirmation was sent to 
Vet B at the same time. I cant say why Vet B didnt receive those notifications or why they 
didnt pass on the information to Miss W. But, in light of the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
RSA did decline the pre-authorisation requests and notify Vet B it had done that. 
The claim
When Miss W subsequently submitted a claim for the cost of the treatment, RSA declined it, 
saying it wasnt covered under the terms of her policy. So, Ive looked to see whether their 
decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I think it was. Let me explain 
why.
Miss Ws insurance policy covers vet fees arising from accidents, illnesses or diseases. But 
it also has a number of conditions and exclusions. One of those exclusions is that RSA will 
not pay claims for any changes noticed by the owner, or their vet, in the pets health or 
behaviour before the policy started, or within 14 days of the first period of insurance. And it 
wont pay claims for any illness or injury that develop from these changes.
Miss Ws dog was diagnosed with BOAS and ataxia just over 14 days after the policy was 
taken out. Those conditions arent excluded from the policy and the cost of the surgery 
would have been covered by the policy if there had been no changes noticed before the 
policy started or within the first 14 days. But RSA identified information in the clinical history 
of Miss Ws dog which it believes indicates both conditions were pre-existing, i.e. theyd 
been noticed by the vets before the policy started.
RSA points to a note in Vet As clinical history dated March 2018 that says Pronounced 
brachycephalia, o considering referral to improve respiration. And a note dated March 2020 
where Miss W said that her dog doesnt exercise in hot weather. Theres also a note in a 
letter from Vet B to Vet A in June 2020 that says The client reported [her dogs] breathing 
has deteriorated recently in relation with the hot weather during this last period, but also 
reported [her dog] to always have been exercise intolerant and have a noisy breathing. Heat 
intolerance and respiratory noise are both clinical signs of BOAS.
Miss W says she never told her vet in March 2018 she was considering a referral to improve 
her dogs respiration. And she believes there was some miscommunication between her and 
Vet B when she spoke to them in June 2020. Mistakes do happen and sometimes things are 
mis-reported. But I need to make a decision based on the evidence Ive seen - and the 
weight of evidence in this case leads me to think that Miss Ws dog was showing clinical 
signs of BOAS before she bought her insurance policy in May 2020. As such, I think RSA 
acted fairly in declining Miss Ws claim for the cost of the treatment for BOAS.
In terms of the ataxia, RSA has pointed to Vet Bs notes taken in June 2020. They refer to Recent onset of ataxia and scraping of hind limbs on floor but go on to say Recently (9-10 
weeks ago) been observed running abnormally, scrapping the claws on the hind limb, urine 
and fecal incontinence while walking since about 1 week. The referral letter from Vet B to 
Vet A on the same day makes similar points. It says Eight to ten week long history of hind 
limb ataxia and weakness. Since one to two weeks, urine and faecal incontinence has been 
observed by the owner, in addition to the hind limb deficits. No treatment has been started 
until now. 
RSA believes this evidence indicates that Miss Ws dog was showing clinical signs of ataxia 
several weeks before the diagnosis, and several weeks before Miss W bought her policy. 
Miss W says she never mentioned eight to ten weeks and believes there was some 
miscommunication between her and Vet B. But again, while I acknowledge what Miss Ws 
said, I cant ignore the clinical notes. And, on balance, Im more persuaded by the vets 
written evidence, which indicates that clinical signs of ataxia were showing before she 
bought her policy. As Miss Ws policy doesnt cover her for conditions identified before the 
start of the policy, I think it was fair for RSA to decline her claim for this condition.
Claim handling
RSA has acknowledged it didnt handle Miss Ws claim as well as it should. It should have 
updated the breed of her dog on its records in June 2020 when it first became aware it was 
wrong. But its agreed to waive the additional premium due from the start of the policy until 
October 2020, when it noticed the breed of the dog was wrong and changed it. And that 
seems reasonable in the circumstances. 
RSA has also accepted that a case handler raised Miss Ws expectations unnecessarily by 
telling her in November 2020 that RSA would cover the treatment for ataxia, when that 
wasnt the case. And there were also some delays during the claim. RSA has paid Miss W 
£300 to apologise for these issues. I can understand how distressing it must have been to be 
told the ataxia was covered under her policy and then being told it wasnt. And the delays 
would have added to that distress. I think £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to recognise 
the impact of those failings. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss Ws experienced but, for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think RSA needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered to pay Miss W £300 to settle the complaint 
and I think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Miss W if 
it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman