DRN-3331206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) under their home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have home insurance with RSA which includes home emergency assistance. 
In May 2021 they contacted RSA as they had a loss of water pressure and they suspected 
there was a leak in the system. An RSA engineer attended and inspected the boiler but 
couldnt find any sign of a visible leak. He advised Mr and Mrs T they would need trace and 
access to identify where the leak was coming from. RSA told them they didnt have cover for 
trace and access, so they contacted a third-party who investigated at a cost of £750. The 
third-party engineer found no leak in the system but noticed water dripping from the boiler. 
The RSA engineer re-attended and agreed there was a leak in the boiler. He said it needed 
a new heat exchanger and the boiler manufacturer subsequently replaced it.
Mr and Mrs T complained to RSA as they said there was a very visible crack down the front 
of the heat exchanger. Had the engineer investigated further when first attending, they 
believe he would have found the source of the leak rather than assuring them the leak 
wasnt from the boiler but elsewhere in the system. They wanted RSA to reimburse them for 
the wasted cost of the trace and access investigation. 
RSA reviewed the situation but didnt think it had done anything wrong and so Mr and Mrs T 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs Ts policy didnt cover them for trace and access. He 
said there was no sign of a leak when the engineer attended, and it was not the intention of 
emergency cover to locate the leak. As there was no sign of a leak when the engineer left 
and the boiler was working, he didnt think there had been any failing by RSA.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. They accept their policy doesnt cover them for trace and access. 
But they dont think its unreasonable to have expected the RSA engineer to spend time 
looking for the leak itself. They said it would only have taken him a few more minutes to 
expose the whole of the face of the heat exchanger and find the crack that was the source of 
the leak.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the problem with Mr and Mrs Ts central heating system was that the 
heat exchanger had failed and needed replacing. There was a crack in the heat exchanger 
that was causing a loss of water pressure. As the replacement part would cost more than the 
limit on their cover, RSA advised Mr and Mrs T to contact the manufacturer to see if they 
would be able to help, which they did.
Theres also no dispute that Mr and Mrs T dont have trace and access cover. They accept 
their policy schedule doesnt cover them for that and so theres no need for me to consider 
this aspect.
The question in dispute is whether RSAs engineer should have done more to identify the 
leak when they first attended, rather than assuring Mr and Mrs T there was no leak from the 
boiler and instead advising them they needed trace and access. Mr and Mrs T think its 
reasonable to have expected the RSA engineer to have done more of an investigation when 
they attended. But, on balance and having carefully considered the evidence, I dont think 
RSA has treated them unfairly. Let me explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ts home emergency policy says it covers them for the cost of any repairs and 
parts necessary to restore the service or prevent further damage to the home as a result of 
the failure or damage to the plumbing system. RSA has said its not the intention of 
emergency cover to locate the leak and, in light of the wording of Mr and Mrs Ts policy, I 
dont think thats unreasonable. Home emergency insurance is usually designed to provide a 
rapid response to an emergency situation relating to essential services supplied to the home. 
As RSA said, although the engineer in this case didnt identify the cause of the problem, the 
boiler was working when he left the property and there was no visible sign of a leak.
The engineer says he couldnt find any evidence of a leak when he first attended. He said 
there were no signs of limescale or stains to help identify any leak and RSA believes it would 
have been difficult to diagnose the problem without clear evidence of a leak. Mr and Mrs T 
said the engineer took off the front cover of the boiler so he could see the pipe connections 
to the heat exchanger and a small part of the heat exchanger itself. They said it would only 
have taken the engineer a few more minutes to expose the whole face of the heat exchanger 
and he would then have seen the crack. In hindsight, it clearly would have been better had 
the engineer done more to inspect the boiler. But there were no signs of a leak from the 
boiler at the time and so I dont think it was unreasonable for the engineer not to have gone 
further when he first attended. 
The third-party engineer was the first person to identify a leak coming from the boiler. But 
that was about 11 days after RSAs engineer first attended. So, I think it was fair for RSA to 
suggest the leak had got worse between the engineers first attendance and his second, 
making it easier for the third party engineer and RSAs engineer (when he re-attended) to 
identify the cause of the problem. I think this adds further weight to the argument that it 
would have been difficult for RSAs engineer to have identified where the leak was coming 
from when he first attended. When he re-attended, the leak was visible and the crack that 
was causing it was as well. Whether that crack would have been visible when the engineer 
first visited is debateable and theres a possibility that even had the engineer exposed the 
heat exchanger, the crack might not have been as large or as visible as it later became.
So, on balance and taking all of the above into account, I dont think it would be fair to say 
RSA has treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly in refusing to reimburse them for the cost of the trace 
and access investigation. Im sorry to hear about the problems they faced, but I dont think 
RSA needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman