DRN-4194836
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems using his HSBC UK Bank Plc bank card when making 
purchases with an online retailer. 
What happened
Mr S has used his HSBC debit card to complete purchases with an online retailer (A) over 
the years. But last summer Mr S received an error message when he attempted to use his 
HSBC debit card to complete a purchase with A. Mr S contacted both A and HSBC to find 
out why his payments werent being approved. A told Mr S that HSBC had declined the 
payments. But HSBC says theres no trace of any payment requests being received from A 
then declined. 
Mr S complained to HSBC in December 2022 and it issued a final response. HSBC 
reiterated that it hadnt received any payment requests from A that were subsequently 
declined. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and provided evidence of his communications with 
A. Mr S forwarded a message from A that said he should ask HSBC to add it to its Multi 
Factor Authentication (MFA) exceptions list to allow payments to go through. Mr S asked 
HSBC to update his account in line with As advice, but it said the request wasnt something 
it could do.  
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and was satisfied no 
payment requests had been received from A then declined. The investigator also said we 
couldnt tell HSBC how to operate. Mr S sent us a lot of evidence to show his 
communications with A and that hed been unable to resolve the payment issue with either 
party. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
Mr S has also forwarded evidence of more recent attempts to use his HSBC debit card to 
make purchases with A that have been unsuccessful. 
I recently contacted HSBC and asked whether it operates an MFA list and, if so, whether its 
possible to add A to it. HSBC responded and confirmed it doesnt currently operate an MFA 
list in this way but that there may be plans to introduce it in the future. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr S is unhappy that despite attempting to resolve the payment issues 
hes experienced with both HSBC and A hes been unable to find the cause. I can see that 
both businesses have told Mr S the problem lies with the other. But in this decision, I can 
only look at HSBCs actions and whether its treated Mr S fairly. My findings will focus on 
how HSBC has handled Mr S queries and whether its failed to correctly process payment 
requests from A. 
Mr S has confirmed that he was previously able to use his HSBC debit card with A to carry 
out purchases but in July 2022 it stopped working. So I think its fair to say HSBC was 
previously able to process the payments Mr S made to A. And Mr S has confirmed that his 
debit card remains operational in terms of making online and in person purchases to other 
businesses. In my view, this reinforces HSBCs claim that it hasnt placed any barriers to 
making payments with Mr S debit card or that its made changes to the way it operates. 
When a merchant processes a card payment, it issues a request for funds from the debit 
card provider. In this case, HSBC has confirmed its searched its records but has been 
unable to find payment requests from A that were then declined during the period Mr S 
complained about. As a result, when HSBC issued its final response it explained that it had 
no record of receiving any transactions from A and declining them. I appreciate that doesnt 
match up with what A has told Mr S, but theres no record of HSBC receiving the debit card 
payment requests in question. 
I think its fair to add that Mr S HSBC statements show he has been able to make payments 
to A during the period in question. There are card payments made to A in the months after 
the problems were first encountered in the summer of 2022. So it appears to me that HSBC 
can and does approve payments to A when the requests are received. In my view, this 
supports HSBCs claim that the other payments Mr S tried to make to A werent received so 
couldnt be approved. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but as the available information doesnt show HSBC 
received payment requests from A that were then declined, Im unable to say its acted 
unfairly or made mistakes. 
Mr S has asked about a reject code he was given by A. But as theres no evidence that 
HSBC received payments requests, its unable to say why the payments Mr S tried to make 
werent successful. In addition, Mr S has queried whether its possible to add A to HSBCs 
MFA list. I recently contacted HSBC to query this point and its confirmed thats not 
something its able to do. Again, I appreciate this may feel unsatisfactory in terms of an 
answer for Mr S. But we cant tell a business how to operate its payment systems, including 
whether to maintain an MFA list that customers can add merchants to. HSBCs recent 
response advised it may look to introduce the process in the future. 
Mr S has recently sent us evidence that shows payments he attempted to make in May and 
June 2023 have been declined at a different stage. I can see that the transactions 
progressed to the point where Mr S was able to obtain a One Time Passcode but that 
payments were ultimately unsuccessful. The more recent payments reached a different 
stage before being declined and were attempted several months after Mr S referred his 
complaint to us. Whilst I appreciate the issue feels related, HSBC hasnt looked into why 
they were declined. And given the payments were declined at a different stage, following 
receipt of a One Time Passcode, I havent been persuaded the issue is necessarily 
connected. Mr S has the option of contacting HSBC to ask it to look into the more recent 
payments hes attempted to make. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman