DRN-1593741
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage applications Mr I and Mr L made within days of each 
other to Nationwide Building Society; the first was a further advance to consolidate debts, 
and the second was to move to a new house. Theyre unhappy that Nationwide turned both 
applications down and they wanted their early repayment charge (ERC) waived if they repaid 
their existing mortgage.
What happened
On 31 July 2018 Mr I and Mr L applied for a further advance to pay off debts. This would 
have taken their total mortgage to around £170, 000, which represented an 80% loan to 
value. The application was referred to an underwriter and on 2 August it was declined.
The same day the first application was declined, Mr I and Mr L applied for a mortgage so 
they could move to a new house. They wanted to borrow around £280,000 which 
represented a 90% loan to value. That application was also referred to an underwriter and 
on 5 August it was declined.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the applications failed Nationwides 
internal checks, and there were no grounds to waive the ERC due if Mr I and Mr L repaid 
their existing mortgage. Mr I and Mr L disagreed and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr I and Mr L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked 
and answered. For that reason I wont question Nationwide in detail as to the specifics of 
why [Mr I and Mr Ls] mortgage applications were declined with meaningful feedback on why 
[they] were declined and how [they] can improve.
I appreciate Mr I and Mr L feel Nationwide treated them unfairly. But its not my role to tell 
lenders how much money to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks. In 
this case, Nationwide applied its lending rules to Mr I and Mr L. It also reviewed its decisions 
to decline the applications and those decisions remained unchanged. 
It seems Mr I and Mr L are conflating failing an affordability calculation (that is, whether they 
can afford the mortgage based on their incomes) and their credit ratings as put forward by 
external credit reference agencies, with Nationwides internal credit scoring and underwriting 
processes. Their proposals couldnt be taken forward because Mr I and Mr L didnt meet 
Nationwides internal credit scoring and underwriting criteria. 
There are many other things in those checks other than the straight questions: 
Can the consumer afford this mortgage based on their income? And 
What number does an external credit reference agency give for their credit rating? 
The fact Mr I and Mr Ls incomes were enough for the mortgages and their credit ratings (as 
given by external credit reference agencies) were high arent the issue here. 
Nationwides internal credit scoring system is commercially sensitive, so its not possible to 
tell Mr I and Mr L exactly why it wasnt willing to agree to their applications. But generally, 
credit scoring criteria looks at what Id call credit behaviour and a lender is trying to 
decipher the level of risk. For example, if previously a debt consolidation loan had been 
taken out, but the original debt either hadnt been repaid or had built back up, then that could 
cause concerns. It would also look at the current and previous utilisation of short- and long-
term credit, how the bank accounts are run and whether there are any red flags that indicate 
cash flow problems.
As I said, Nationwide doesnt have to give any further information to Mr I and Mr L about why 
it couldnt proceed with the proposals as thats commercially sensitive, and so it would be 
inappropriate for me to pass that information to them. But Ive reviewed the information and 
Im satisfied that Nationwide fairly considered these applications in line with its underwriting 
policy and risk appetite.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and so I make no order or award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before 21 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman