DRN-3969919
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss she 
suffered when she sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
Mrs K has used a representative to bring her complaint. But, for ease of reading, Ill mainly 
just refer to Mrs K herself throughout my decision.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019 Mrs K was sadly the victim of a 
romance scam. She was befriended by a scammer online and tricked into sending £30,000 
from her account with H to the scammers account with Wise. 
The payment credited the Wise account on 7 November 2019. When the scammer asked for 
a further £80,000, Mrs K realised shed been tricked. In 2022 she raised this with H and 
Wise. There were further losses from Mrs Ks account with H which werent sent to Wise and 
therefore arent part of this complaint. Im aware that following the involvement of our 
service, Mrs K received a refund of 50% of her loss from H.
Wise sympathised with Mrs K being the victim of a scam, but also said they couldnt provide 
a refund as they hadnt made any errors. They also said that the account in question had 
already been closed and there were no funds remaining to be returned. 
Mrs K referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In a broad summary she didnt think there were any failures by Wise 
which caused or contributed to the loss. 
Mrs K asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. On reviewing the file, I agreed with 
our Investigators outcome but for slightly different reasons. So I wrote to both Mrs K and 
Wise explaining my thoughts. In summary I said:
I was satisfied that there werent failings by Wise which caused or contributed to 
Mrs Ks loss in relation to the opening of the account that later received her funds.
Soon after the arrival of Mrs Ks money, there was an outgoing payment which 
represented the majority of the funds. Given the account was relatively recently 
opened and that this payment was being sent internationally, I think this is something 
Wise ought to have picked up on. 
But had Wise contacted their customer, I think its most likely that they would have 
provided a plausible explanation for the account activity. And there was nothing so 
unusual or suspicious, at that stage, where I think Wise ought to have done more or 
that theyd have had grounds to doubt what their customer most likely would have 
told them. 
I was also satisfied that by the time Mrs K reported the scam, there were no funds 
available to be returned. 
Wise responded and said they had nothing further to add. Mrs Ks representative responded 
and felt that they had had other cases where complaints had been upheld in similar 
circumstances. The representative felt that if my logic were to be followed, then no cases like 
this would be upheld as the recipient accountholder could always explain away the activity 
unless a report of fraud was received. I re-iterated that each case is decided on its own 
particular merits and circumstances. As agreement couldnt be found, Mrs K asked that I 
issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome Ive previously explained. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mrs K has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam. I dont doubt 
this has had a significant impact on her, especially given the sum involved. And Im pleased 
she was able to recover half of her loss from this payment through her own bank, H. But just 
because Mrs K has been the victim of a scam, this doesnt automatically entitle her to a 
refund from Wise. 
There isnt a great deal I can add beyond what Ive already shared with both Mrs K and 
Wise. Whilst I think Wise ought to have taken some action in relation to the account activity, 
specifically a large payment leaving the account after receipt of Mrs Ks funds. In order for 
me to make an award, I need to be satisfied that Wise reviewing the account activity and 
speaking to their customer would have made a difference. Specifically, that, but for Wise not 
intervening, Mrs Ks funds wouldnt have left the account and would have remained available 
for recovery. 
And in the specific circumstances of this complaint, on the balance of probabilities, Im not 
persuaded that is what would have most likely transpired. I think its most likely that Wises 
customer would have responded to any contact and provided reassurances about the 
account activity. And I think that it would have been reasonable for Wise to have accepted 
this, particularly as there were no notifications of fraud or other reasons for concern at that 
time. With this in mind, I dont think there would have been sufficient cause for Wise to have 
taken further steps such as asking their customer for proof of entitlement to the funds or 
stopping their customer from making payments using the funds that had credited the 
account. As such, I cant say that Wise caused or contributed to Mrs Ks loss and so I cant 
fairly direct that they need to do more. 
Mrs K didnt report the scam for a considerable time after the payment had been made. And 
Im satisfied that at the time of reporting, no funds remained. So I also dont think there were 
failures by Wise in relation to the recovery of Mrs Ks money. 
Again, Im sorry to hear Mrs K lost so much money to a scam. But as I dont think Wise are 
responsible for the outstanding loss (or a part of it) or hindered its recovery, there isnt a 
reasonable basis upon which I can tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman