DRN-4220299
The complaint
Ms S complains that Chubb European Group SE hasnt accepted her permanent total 
disablement (PTD) claim under a personal accident policy. 
What happened
Ms S is covered under a personal accident policy with Chubb. In 2019, she injured her ankle. 
Ms S made a claim under the policy, and Chubb accepted she had a valid claim for 
permanent partial disablement, and a settlement was paid. However, Ms S thought she had 
a valid claim for PTD. 
Chubb didnt make a payment under the PTD section of cover as it didnt think Ms S had 
shown she met the requirements for a claim to be paid. Unhappy with this, Ms S brought a 
complaint to this Service. Our investigator concluded the medical evidence didnt support 
that a PTD claim should be paid. 
Meanwhile, Chubb offered to arrange for Ms S to attend an independent medical 
examination (IME) with a specialist. It wanted an up-to-date picture of her disability, so it 
could decide whether she met the policy requirements for a PTD claim to be paid. Ms S 
didnt want to do this, and brought a new complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Chubbs 
suggestion that Ms S attend an IME was reasonable. 
Ms S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
Permanent total disablement from any occupation means disablement which totally prevents 
the Insured Person from attending to any and every occupation or job of any kind 
whatsoever and which lasts for 12 calendar months and at the expiry of that period is 
beyond hope of improvement.
I appreciate that Ms Ss GP thought that it was unlikely Ms Ss symptoms would improve 
significantly to allow her to work in a normal capacity. However, we would generally place 
greater weight on the opinion of specialists than a GP.
One specialist thought that Ms Ss recovery would continue to evolve as she was still having 
active treatment. Another specialist thought she was capable of engaging with work. A third 
specialist said in August 2022 they thought Ms S would find it difficult to work at that time. 
Im not persuaded that the available specialist evidence has shown that Ms Ss disablement 
prevents her from doing any and every occupation whatsoever.
Ms S has recently provided this Service with an updated opinion from her GP. The GP says 
that Ms S has a permanent disability. She also says that Ms Ss pain is not curable, and the 
prime focus has moved to pain management. Though by making a payment under the 
permanent partial disablement cover, Chubb has accepted that Ms S has a permanent 
disablement, so this isnt in dispute. 
I think it was reasonable for Chubb to offer to arrange for an IME to take place with a 
specialist. This will allow it to obtain an up-to-date understanding of Ms Ss disablement and 
ability to work, so that it can make a claims decision on whether the PTD claim should be 
paid. I also note Chubb wants to establish whether all of Ms Ss symptoms are related to her 
accident, as the available medical information suggests that may not be the case. An IME 
specialist can offer an opinion on this.
Ms S has a treating consultant (Mr M), and she thinks Chubb should contact him for his 
updated opinion. Mr M is a consultant orthopaedic surgeon and is of the view that Ms Ss 
symptoms are largely neuropathic in nature. Given that this isnt Mr Ms area of specialism, it 
seems to me that an IME with an appropriate specialist in this area would be reasonable. 
Though of course, Ms S is welcome to also provide Chubb with Mr Ms updated opinion on 
her injury if she wishes, so that it can take this into account at the same time as the IME 
report.
Ive noted that Ms S wrote some statements in respect of whether she met the PTD 
definition, and Mr M marked a statement that suggested she did. I dont think this alone 
shows that she meets the PTD requirements. I would expect to see much more detailed 
explanation and reasoning behind this. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint, as I find that Chubbs offer to arrange an IME before 
making a claims decision was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman