DRN-1367349
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2009. Bank of Scotland said the 
PPI wasnt mis-sold, but offered to refund some premiums paid as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so I've been asked to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs L case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons.
Mr and Mrs L signed on their application form to indicate they wanted the PPI separately to 
where they signed to apply for the mortgage. So, I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs L.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs L paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr and 
Mrs L back some cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L has said  including what theyve said about 
being told they couldnt cancel the policy when they paid off the mortgage, and that they paid 
it off using endowment policies after being made redundant. But these points dont change 
my decision. The policy documents say the PPI can be cancelled at any time. And while the endowments covered the outstanding amount of the mortgage in 2019, that is unlikely to 
have been the case at the time of sale of the PPI in 2009 and throughout the years in 
between.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman