DRN-2974295
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Hes said that he wouldnt have taken out the mortgage if hed known Coventry would 
only increase the rate, and not decrease it. 
What happened
Mr J spoke to Coventry on the phone in September 2016 when he wanted to apply for this 
mortgage.
A mortgage offer was issued in November 2016 which set out the terms of the mortgage 
contract. That said Mr J was borrowing £116,875 over 35 years on a repayment basis. The 
product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, 
currently 1.89%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of 
its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in December 2016.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr J to tell him the interest rate, and therefore the 
monthly payments, on his mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the terms and 
conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable mortgage 
rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and the costs 
involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage is 
increasing to 2.14 %.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording, this time the interest 
rate was increasing to 2.39%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr J complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that Coventry 
hadnt reduced his interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for Term product 
the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it needed to consider the interests of its 
membership as a whole, and its priority had been to make sure borrowers could access 
payment deferrals if they needed them, and to reduce interest rates for those borrowers who 
were on higher rates. It reminded Mr J that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so 
he could move to a different product  or lender  if he wanted to.
As Mr J didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint form he said 
he told Coventry that he thoughts rates would stay low so he didnt want a fixed rate, and 
The advisor recommended me their flex for term product which is an administered variable 
rate so I could take advantage of decreasing rates. He said the product wasnt suitable for 
his needs because the rate didnt go down, and therefore feels it was mis-sold and he wants 
his £999 product fee he paid in 2016 refunded.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr J aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why.
The pandemic was an unprecedented situation and he felt the substantial challenge 
provided by the pandemic led to changes in the way any lender would need to run its 
business.
The product wasnt mis-sold to Mr J so Coventry doesnt need to refund the product 
fee.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
His only reason for taking this product was to take advantage of interest rates 
reducing.
Just because there is a paragraph in the mortgage offer doesnt mean it is right and 
fair.
Coventry is financially strong, and theres no risk to its members. It is lying and it is 
an insult to its customers to use this as a reason to not pass on the base rate cuts.
There is an exit fee as well as set-up costs for any new mortgage, so it is untrue to 
say he could refinance without incurring a fee.
After further correspondence with our investigator, Mr J asked that his complaint be passed 
to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr J. Its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are 
based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr J entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry at the time.
The sales call in September 2016Mr J has said: 
The product did not meet my needs and was mis-sold this product. My ONLY 
reason for taking this product was to take advantage of interest rates reducing after 
being advised that I would. I made this clear to my advisor when taking out the 
mortgage, which you acknowledged. Why else would I have taken this deal as I had 
to pay the same fee as any other product?
The main frustration is the coventry advised me to take the product which I relied 
upon. The product was NEVER right for me. If I had my time again I would never 
have taken it.
I told my adviser that I had a view on interest rates - ie that they would stay low - and 
therefore I didnt want a fixed rate. The advisor recommended me their flex for term 
product which is an administered variable rate so I could take advantage of 
decreasing rates.
One of the first questions in my mortgage interview with your colleague was 'are you 
concerned with mortgage rates increasing'. My answer 'no'. Interviewer 'ok, I 
recommend a floating rate product which will allow you to take advantage of 
decreasing interest rates'.
I had to pay 1000 fee for this product remember. My main driver was to take part of 
a decrease in rates as your colleague well knew when i took out the product.
Ive considered Mr Js testimony, and Ive also reviewed the transcript of the sales call 
of 30 September 2016. That shows:
Mr J introduced the idea of a variable rate product by saying I want a variable 
mortgage because I want to overpay. So having it over a longer period means theres 
a minimum payment and I can just overpay as and when I need to.
The adviser explained that the amount Mr J wanted to overpay would be allowed on 
a fixed rate, to which Mr J replied I understand that, but I know that after the fixed 
rate has ended, Ill revert into a standard variable rate and then to go onto another 
product it might mean paying another fee, which I would want to avoid.
The adviser then clarified, by asking whether it was more a case of avoiding a 
scheme with an initial period and then having to review it, rather than wanting the 
flexibility of the overpayments. Which Mr J confirmed was correct.
It also shows me the question the adviser asked about rate increases was So how do you 
feel about the fact that with a variable rate, I know you said your personal opinion is theyre 
going to stay low for quite a period of time, sort of moving forward, but obviously youre 
planning, going to make over-payments to the mortgage. So if rates were going to start 
going up, thats going to impact on the amount that your over-payments impacting on the 
mortgage. 
Mr J replied thats why he wanted to keep his contractual monthly payments lower, and then 
his overpayment could just be reduced. He was asked if he was confident he could manage 
increases in interest rates. But instead of the adviser then saying 'ok, I recommend a floating 
rate product which will allow you to take advantage of decreasing interest rates' as Mr J 
recalled, the adviser moved on to asking about fees, saying:Now you mentioned about fees, and you mentioned about not wanting to keep paying 
fees every time you review. At the minute, weve got schemes that have no fees at all, 
weve got some with £499 arrangement fees and some with £999 arrangement fees. 
Now as a general rule, the higher the fees the lower the rate is. So your £999 fee has the 
lowest available rate, your £499 would have the mid-rate and your no fee would have 
the highest rate. How do you feel about paying a fee if it means we can get you a better 
rate?
In reply to that Mr J introduced the product he wanted to apply for saying Thats fine. The 
product Im looking at is the 1.89% Flexx for Term with a £999 fee and Id be happy paying 
the initial fee of £999.
From this we can see that it was Mr J who said he wanted a variable rate, and it was Mr J 
who named the specific product that he wanted. Despite Mr J being clear in what he wanted, 
the adviser kept asking the questions she needed to ask to ensure that was the right product 
for Mr J. Later on in the conversation Mr J was asked why he wanted a Homebuyers survey, 
to which he replied I used to work in a mortgage department at a local building society and I 
just like how in depth the report goes into.  It just gives peace of mind.
Later on, the adviser asked Mr J why he wasnt interested in an offset mortgage, after 
confirming he knew what that was. Mr J replied I suppose its because I want the product I 
want.
Whilst Coventry advised Mr J that was the right rate for him, Mr J was clear that was the only 
rate he wanted to apply for. Coventry asked all the questions it needed to, and based on 
Mr Js answers, this wasnt an unsuitable product for him.
The adviser correctly described the product as It is a rate thats managed by CBS.  We 
assess when it changes and how much it changes by. Its set independently of our standard 
variable rate and of the Bank of England rate.
Having considered everything Im satisfied this wasnt an unsuitable recommendation to 
make based on the answered Mr J gave to the advisers questions. For that reason Im not 
persuaded that the product was mis-sold.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFM77 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.89%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.89%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Whilst Coventry had changed the products rate by the same differential the five previous 
times the base rate had changed, the three base rate changes before that hadnt been 
reflected with a matching differential change across the board.I understand Mr J believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate is 
one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr J that his interest rate would always change in 
line with the base rate, and his mortgage offer clearly explains the interest rate is set 
independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. For that 
reason there are no grounds for me to order Coventry to refund the product fee. Although Im 
satisfied Mr J wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I still need to 
decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue J booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer states otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to any increased cost or risk incurred by us as a result of any 
change of use of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or 
without our permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage points. But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as 
the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr Js mortgage in 
isolation. 
The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its mortgage 
function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage 
payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way of working, 
and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Coventry didnt have the same 
level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced previously so theyre not 
comparable. Coventry has sent us information in confidence which explains why it didnt 
reduce its Flexx for Term rates in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr J as 
it is commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im 
satisfied that the decision wasnt taken lightly and it wasnt unfair. Im satisfied that 
Coventrys costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr J (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard variable 
rate, compared to the 2.39% Mr J was paying). That seems a fair decision for Coventry to 
have made. 
It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Coventry 
had reduced the interest rate for the product by the same amount of percentage points.
The product Mr J had allowed him the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with 
Coventry at any time if he no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for money. Im 
satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr Js mortgage if he had wanted 
to switch to them and that there was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other 
contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
He was also able to shop around and remortgage to another lender  which is what he did  
if he felt the interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market.
Mr J has said he had to pay a £125 mortgage exit fee, plus there were administrative 
expenses and inconvenience with setting up a new mortgage with a different lender, when 
he remortgaged. But as Im satisfied Coventry did nothing wrong when it chose not to reduce 
Mr Js interest rate from 2.39% then it follows I cant hold Coventry liable for Mr Js decision 
to remortgage to a different lender and the costs that were applicable for that.
If he hadnt remortgaged (or applied for another product with Coventry) then Mr J would 
have remained on the 2.39% Flexx interest rate  which Coventry may or may not had 
varied, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future.
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 2.39% is fairly competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product 
offers. However, as Mr J didnt agree he remortgaged to another lender and the only cost 
from Coventry of ending his Flexx for Term mortgage was a £125 mortgage exit fee (as set 
out in his mortgage offer). Alternatively that mortgage exit fee wouldnt have been charged if 
he chose to simply change to a new product with Coventry instead.I acknowledge Mr Js frustration but, having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry 
didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but then didnt reduce 
the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020. Im also satisfied that the 
product wasnt unsuitable for Mr J when he took it out in 2016.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr J may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman