DRN-4249630
The complaint
Mr C complains Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) provided poor customer service during a 
telephone conversation he had with them.
What happened
Mr C says he telephoned Cynergy in late January 2023 to discuss an issue he had 
concerning his savings account. Mr C says during that call he was asked an unreasonable 
number of security questions and the member of staff he spoke to wasnt fully aware of 
Cynergys own banking systems and was rude to him during that conversation. 
Mr C feels he should be able to access and amend his own personal banking details online 
and additionally Cynergy should automatically update him of any changes to its new savings 
products. 
Mr C says Cynergys offer of £40 by way of apology doesnt go far enough for the trouble 
and upset he has experienced.
Cynergy says it accepts the telephone call in January 2023 could have been handled better 
by its agent but there was no intention to have insulted Mr C, as the comment was directed 
at himself. Cynergy says the agent acted in line with its process, when asking the security 
questions he did. Cynergy pointed out customers arent able to access and amend their 
personal details via online banking as this is an added layer of security. 
Cynergy says as regards to its savings account products these are issue based and 
available on personal application and online and are not automatically notified to existing 
customers, although this approach is under review. 
Cynergy says it has apologised to Mr C for the service he received and offered him £40 by 
way of apology.
Mr C wasnt happy with Cynergys response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while the initial telephone conversation with Cynergys agent could have 
been handled better the security questions asked were part of its process. The investigator 
didnt feel the agent intended to insult Mr C and the comment he made was directed at 
himself. 
The investigator says Cynergy explained customers arent permitted to amend their own 
personal details online, as an added layer of protection. The investigator says the way 
Cynergy publishes its interest rates are in line with its processes and its terms and 
conditions. 
The investigator felt the apology and offer of £40 by Cynergy was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have to go through lengthy 
security questions when he telephoned Cynergy, then to be informed he couldnt amend his 
own personal details online. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Cynergy have adequately compensated Mr C 
for the service issues he faced when he called them in late January 2023. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I dont intend to go over 
every point thats been previously raised, other than to say the centre of Mr Cs complaint 
surrounds how he was spoken to when he called Cynergy in late January 2023. 
The first thing to say here is while Mr C may not agree, its not my role to tell Cynergy what 
security question it must ask its customers, nor what information its customers can access 
via online banking services  after all these form part of Cynergys security process and 
procedures. Additionally, Cynergy dont at present automatically inform its customers of new 
savings product issues and while I understand this may be under review, thats a business 
decision for it to take. 
As far as to the main issue of Mr Cs complaint is concerned, I have listened to the phone 
calls in late January 2023. What I would say here is although the agent Mr C spoke to could 
have perhaps handled the call better, from what I heard I cant see that the agent intended 
any insult and when he refers to a jack of all trades  in that call, I am satisfied he is 
referring to himself and not Mr C. 
I know Mr C feels he was asked too many security questions but as I have already said this 
is part of Cynergys identification process, that said I can see Mr C was prompted in a 
second call he made regarding his mobile number, but this was incorrect and has been fed 
back to the staff member in question. 
Cynergy have apologised for the overall service provided to Mr C here and offered him £40 
by way of compensation and I am satisfied that is reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint for the reasons I have already explained.  
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I will leave it with him to contact Cynergy if 
he now wishes to take up their offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman