DRN-2481038
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is holding him liable for two payments he 
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Mr D has a credit card account with Lloyds. In September 2019, fraudsters tricked him into 
sharing his card details which enabled them to make two payments into their account.
Mr D had recently bought a sofa but was unhappy with it. Hed paid for it using a third-party 
payment processor and wanted to get in touch with them to raise a dispute relating to the 
quality of the sofa. He searched online for a contact number for that company and called the 
first number he found. Unfortunately, this number didnt go through to that third party but to 
fraudsters instead.
He told us that he explained that he wanted to complain about the goods hed bought. The 
fraudsters told him theyd need to take his card details in order to verify his identity. He was 
also told he should respond affirmatively to any text messages checking whether he was 
authorising the activity on his account.
Mr D wasnt aware of this at the time, but the fraudsters used his card details to make two 
payments to their own bank account. The first was for £2,000.97 and the second for 
£2,379.82. For each payment, Mr D was sent a text message by Lloyds. These text 
messages included the value of the payment and the recipient and asked Mr D to confirm he 
wanted those payments to be processed. 
He checked his account statements online shortly afterwards and saw the two payments. He 
realised he mustve been a victim of fraud and so notified Lloyds. Lloyds investigated his 
complaint but said it wasnt willing to refund the two payments. It said:
You advised you gave your credit card details to the merchant therefore we are 
unable to treat this matter as fraudulent. We also sent you a text message to confirm 
if this transaction was you or not. You replied to us to advise it was genuine therefore 
the transaction went through. We are therefore unable to provide a refund as we took 
reasonable steps to verify these payments with you and you confirmed you were 
happy to authorise these.
Mr D was unhappy with this and so referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by 
an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator said that Lloyds shouldnt hold Mr D liable for 
a payment if he didnt follow the necessary steps to authorise it or give permission to 
someone else to do so. Mr D didnt choose the value of the payment or the recipient. He 
simply shared his card details with someone believing that they would be used for an 
alternative purpose. The investigator concluded that Mr D hadnt authorised these payments 
nor had he given permission to a third party to make them on his behalf.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion. Primarily, it argued that Mr D authorised the 
payments by responding to the text messages. Those text messages made it clear that 
substantial payments would be made from his account and that the beneficiary of those 
payments wasnt the business he thought he was dealing with. It said: 
[we] cannot see how it would not be clearly evident to the customer that by saying 
yes to these texts his card would be debited  By doing so, there is no doubt he has 
both authorised and consented to the transactions proceeding.
It also pointed out that Mr D is a regular user of this third party and wouldve understood its 
processes well. He shouldve known that it would not ask for a customers card details for 
security purposes. As Lloyds disagreed, the case has been passed to me to consider and 
issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and regulations say that Lloyds can only hold Mr D liable for the payments 
if he authorised them himself or give permission to a third party to do so on his behalf. Im 
satisfied that Mr D didnt follow the correct steps to authorise these payments. His testimony 
suggests that he had no notion that any payment was to be collected  so it follows that he 
wasnt aware of more precise information, such as how much those payments were for, who 
the intended recipient was and so on. He handed over that information to a third party 
because he believed the information was being used for a different purpose, but I dont think 
it can reasonably be concluded that in doing so he authorised its use.
Nor can it be said that he gave permission to a third party to give a payment instruction on 
his behalf. From what hes told us, the only purpose of this phone call was to raise a 
complaint about a sofa hed bought using the third partys payment processing service . In 
view of that, hed have had no reason to anticipate making these two large payments.
Lloyds has pointed out that Mr D responded to two text messages which allowed the 
payments to be processed. Lloyds has sent us an example of the information that wouldve 
been contained within those text messages  including the value of the payment and the 
destination account. Its true that, if Mr D had paused to consider the information in those 
messages carefully, he might have found those things unusual.
However, he was being guided through the process by the scammer and operating under 
the false belief that he was dealing with a legitimate business. I think its likely he took the 
verbal assurances he was given over the telephone at face value and so didnt feel the need 
to carefully scrutinise the contents of the messages. The fact that he failed to do so doesnt 
suggest that he authorised the payments.
Lloyds has also argued that Mr D was a regular customer of this third-party and so would 
know it wouldnt ask him for his card details to verify his identity. I can see that Mr D had 
used this business in the past  but it doesnt necessarily follow that he wouldve known how 
it dealt with disputes of this kind. Even if he had raised disputes regularly in the past, Im not 
convinced it would make a difference to the outcome of this case. The scammers had tricked 
him into believing he was talking to a legitimate business  in that context, Im satisfied that it 
wouldve quite easily been able to prolong that fiction, even if Mr D had raised concerns 
about sharing his card details for verification purposes.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr D didnt authorise these two payments and so I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold him liable for them.Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should rework Mr Ds account as if these two payments had never taken 
place. This will include removing any interest, fees or charges that were applied to those 
payments. 
If Mr Ds credit card account wouldve been in credit but for these two payments, Lloyds 
Bank PLC should also add simple interest on that positive balance at a rate of 8% per 
annum. In accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, Lloyds Bank PLC is 
entitled to withhold up to £35 from the redress payable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman