DRN-2369743
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, have acted unfairly by 
closing his current account. And that it has discriminated against him. 
For simplicity I will refer to First Direct in my decision. 
What happened
On 14 September 2020, First Direct contacted Mr O to enquire about a substantive payment 
he had made. Mr O said it was paid to his uncle for a business venture. 
On 25 September 2020, First Direct wrote to Mr O. In the letter First Direct explained that 
after carrying out a review, it had decided to close Mr Os account and gave two months 
notice. 
Mr O explained that he was abroad at that time and was unable to make other banking 
arrangements. He also explained that he was going through a challenging time personally 
and he felt First Directs actions were discriminatory.  
Mr O complained to First Direct who in response said it would maintain its position to close 
the account and that it hadnt taken the decision on a discriminatory basis. 
Unhappy with what First Direct said, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and they didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. 
In summary they said First Direct has ongoing regulatory and legal obligations it must follow. 
And that it has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account by giving two 
months notice to close the account. 
In response Mr O repeated he felt discriminated against and that it was unfair for First Direct 
to leave him in this situation at such a difficult time for him personally. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the pretty much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which First Direct and Mr O had to comply with, 
say that it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by First Direct, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. First Direct had written to Mr O to explain its 
actions on the 25 September 2020 and in doing so signposted him to its terms and 
conditions that it was exercising this action under.  
Mr O says that this matter has caused him substantive trouble and upset, especially in a 
year that has been so challenging for him. In saying this I note he has suffered several 
bereavements. I am sorry for his loss and I empathise with his circumstances. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against First Direct given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it closed Mr Os account. 
Finally, I note Mr O says he has been discriminated against. This is a serious allegation. But 
having looked through the information I have, I havent seen anything to suggest he has 
been treated differently to anyone else in similar circumstances. 
So, in conclusion, Im satisfied First Direct hasnt acted unfairly in closing Mr Os account nor 
am I going to ask it to compensate him for any trouble and upset this may have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman