DRN-3900175
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited made unfair deductions to his home 
insurance claim, specifically in respect of gold jewellery.
What happened
Mr K had home insurance with Tesco and made a claim following a burglary. The claim was 
accepted by Tesco, but there was a disagreement over the settlement amount for the 
jewellery that had been stolen.
Mr K said the jewellery had been brought to the UK from abroad and when asked if import 
duty had been paid on it, he said it had not.
Because of that, Tesco made a significant deduction to their settlement offer. Tesco said it 
was fair to pay the amount the jewellery cost to buy abroad  as opposed to the replacement 
value at the time of loss. They said Mr K ought not reasonably be seen to profit from having 
not paid import duty.
Mr K didnt agree, he said hed spoken to HMRC after the claim and theyd told him he didnt 
have to declare the jewellery on entry to the UK. Although he didnt have any confirmation of 
that.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt Tesco should offer Mr K the UK 
replacement value of the jewellery. Tesco maintained their position, so the case was passed 
to me to decide.
I initially wrote to Tesco, explaining the following:
Tesco reduced Mr Ks settlement for jewellery bought abroad on the basis that he may have 
avoided paying import duty on it. I have concerns with this for a number of reasons.
First of all, Tesco is not HMRC and has not provided evidence to show that any import duty 
was owed at the different times the jewellery was imported. This appears to be no more than 
an assumption and certainly isnt grounds for such a huge reduction in settlement value. If 
Tesco were to perhaps have had a tax expert assess the matter and provide a persuasive 
argument as to how much ought to have been paid, then it could have been reasonable to 
have deducted that amount from the settlement.
Secondly, the concerns about tax avoidance and the legal case referred to dont seem to 
apply in this instance. Ive seen no evidence that Mr K deliberately and knowingly avoided 
paying import duty. Of course, if he did  we would not condone that  but nor are we HMRC 
either, so that is not a matter for us to determine. If Tesco had concerns in that respect, then 
they could consider reporting Mr K so that the appropriate authorities could investigate if 
necessary.
Thirdly, the cost of the jewellery in the past isnt really relevant here. As Tesco will know, the 
value of items can fluctuate. The policy is one of indemnity and therefore it is the current 
replacement value that ought to be provided (subject to any policy limits which may apply). 
The loss occurred in the UK and the policy is governed by UK law. So, replacement value 
should be that of the UK too.
And it seems to me that the reason the consumer may appear to be benefitting from the 
higher settlement isnt because of any supposed failure to pay import duty, but is because 
the value of gold has increased very significantly over the years since it was purchased  as 
can be seen on The Royal Mint website.
In view of all of this, I consider it reasonable to require Tesco to settle the claim based on the 
value of the jewellery at the time of loss  not the original purchase price. As I say, this can 
be subject to policy limits and may include a deduction for any import duty (provided it can 
be adequately demonstrated that it was owed, and how much). But any payment should 
include 8% interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement. Interest need not apply to 
any payments which may have been made promptly after the claim.
Tesco disagreed. They said it wasnt an assumption that duty tax was not paid, rather it had 
been said by Mr K. Tesco feel Mr K ought to have known of his responsibilities and that it 
was up to him to provide them with evidence to support his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Respectfully, I believe Tesco has missed the points I was making in my provisional 
assessment, and I maintain what I set out to them previously.
I accept Mr K said import duty had not been paid, but that alone does not mean it should 
have been paid. I also accept that its possible a declaration at customs on entry to the UK 
would have led to a requirement for duty to be paid.
However, Tesco has made a very significant deduction to the jewellery claim without 
adequate justification, approximately £10,000, which represents around two thirds of the 
claim. And while they sought legal opinion, it wasnt persuasive.
This is because in their own commentary, alongside the legal opinion, they say Dependent 
on the type of goods and which country these were purchased in, Customs will inform the 
person if [my emphasis] / how much tax they must pay. Tesco has not provided anything 
to demonstrate tax was due and they accept there are times when it is not.
The legal opinion also says they can see the argument both ways and suggested that 
allowing the full valuation without payment of duty would effectively allow the policyholder to 
profit, albeit innocently, from their illegal importation of goods.. It does not confirm any of the 
consumers actions were deliberate or carried out knowingly  which again, would make a 
difference if it were the case. There is also the idea of innocent possession of uncustomed 
goods which is said to be a factor in such cases.
It is true, as previously set out, that I would not wish to be seen to be allowing a consumer to 
profit from intentionally avoiding payment of import duty. But, to me, that hasnt been 
demonstrated and isnt what is happening here. Based on Tescos valuation experts, Mr K 
would appear to be benefitting from the value of gold having increased  and/or potentially 
the cost of replacement in the UK being greater than the cost abroad. Tesco has not 
disputed this, and given they employed experts to assess the replacement cost in the UK it 
is reasonable to say that opinion should be relied upon.Further, I made provision within my earlier correspondence that, in the event Tesco can 
establish  through a tax expert or HMRC  that Mr K owes, or owed, duty on the jewellery 
then they may reasonably make a deduction to account for that. That means its within 
Tescos power to ensure they arent liable for more than they ought reasonably to be, and 
that Mr K doesnt receive more than he ought to either.
So, overall, this is fair and reasonable to both Mr K and Tesco.
Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to settle Mr Ks jewellery claim based on the UK 
replacement cost at the time of loss, i.e. they ought not be simply offering the purchase cost.
This will be subject to any policy limits or terms which may otherwise apply, but interest 
should be added at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
As previously expressed, interest need not be applied to any payments made promptly after 
the claim, should that have been the case.
HMRC requires Tesco Underwriting Limited to deduct tax from the interest. They should 
provide Mr K with a certificate showing how much has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to settle this matter as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman