DRN-3328956
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bradford & Bingley Limited mis-sold him an income protection 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Bradford & Bingley sold Mr O an income protection insurance policy in 1996. The policy was 
sold during a meeting. 
In 2019, Mr O complained to Bradford & Bingley that the policy had been mis-sold. Bradford 
& Bingley sent Mr O a final response letter explaining why it didnt think this was the case.  
As Mr O remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt act on behalf of either businesses or consumers. 
We are independent and impartial. So, I must reach a decision that is fair and reasonable to 
both parties  not just to Mr O. 
Mr O has repeatedly mentioned that Bradford & Bingley made a factually incorrect statement 
in its final response letter. This doesnt automatically mean the policy was mis-sold. I have 
no reason to believe that Bradford & Bingley deliberately made an incorrect statement, and I 
cant fairly draw the inferences which Mr O is suggesting from the content of the final 
response letter. But Ive taken account of what Mr O has said, and I havent relied on the 
statement in question when making my final decision.  
The policy which Mr O was sold wasnt a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
designed to protect borrowings. Instead, Mr O was sold a policy designed to provide a 
monthly cash benefit, based on a percentage of Mr Os income, if Mr O was unable to work 
due to illness or injury. So, any issues surrounding the mis-selling of PPI policies arent 
relevant to Mr Os complaint. In any event, when making my final decision about Mr Os 
complaint, I can only take into account the individual circumstances of his own complaint (i.e. 
how Mr Os policy was sold to him, and not how insurance may have been sold to other 
policyholders). 
As I wasnt present during the meeting when this policy was sold, I cant know for certain 
exactly what was discussed. Instead, Ive taken into account what Mr O has told us as well 
as the documentation available from the time the policy was sold, to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened in the circumstances. 
This was an advised sale. Which means Id expect Bradford & Bingley to have made sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr O, and to have provided him with information about the policy 
that was clear, fair, and not misleading. I dont think who instigated the meeting is relevant to 
how Bradford & Bingley conducted the sale of this policy.
As Ive outlined above, the intention of this policy was to provide a replacement income to Mr 
O if he was unable to work due to illness or injury. Section 2, page 7 of the Customer Needs 
Analysis completed at the time the policy was sold says Mr O had no source of income 
other than his salary and had no contractual entitlement to sick pay from his employer. So, 
Im satisfied that this policy could have been of use to Mr O and that he would have been 
able to benefit from it, in return for the premiums paid, if hed needed to make a claim. And, I 
dont think the policy was unaffordable for Mr O based on his income, outgoings, and the 
amount of the premium at the time the policy was sold. 
I understand Mr O says he was told hed receive a return on the premiums he paid. I dont 
necessarily doubt what Mr O has said about this, but I also have to take into account the fact 
that recollections can fade over time, particularly as Mr O complained about the matter over 
20 years after this policy was sold. 
Although this policy did have a cash-in value, the primary purpose of an income protection 
insurance policy isnt to provide an investment return. A partial investment of the monthly 
premiums is recorded on the Customer Needs Analysis as offering the cheapest premiums 
 with a low degree of inherent and actual long-term risk. But, theres no suggestion of this 
policy providing Mr O with any investment return in the detailed notes set out in the 
documents available from the time of the sale. Instead, the documents clearly say the policy 
is designed to provide a replacement income for Mr O. Ive also seen evidence that Mr O 
was sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the income protection insurance policy in 
1996 and these specifically and clearly, state that any cash-in values are only examples and 
are not guaranteed. I dont think the documents which Ive seen are in any way unclear, 
unfair, or misleading about why the income protection policy was being recommended to Mr 
O by Bradford & Bingley. 
Ive taken into account what Mr O has said about trusting the advisor and that he simply 
signed what he was asked to sign, but I cant fairly disregard the fact that the documents 
record Mr O as agreeing that he had a need to protect his income. Neither can I fairly 
disregard the fact that Mr O did sign the documents confirming that he agreed with the 
information set out within them. 
Mr O has said Bradford & Bingley should have sold him a pension instead of this policy but 
the Customer Needs Analysis records Mr O as having said he didnt see himself ever 
retiring, and that he didnt wish to consider buying a pension at that time. So, I cant fairly 
agree with Mr Os comments on this point. 
So, overall - and regardless of any target which the advisor may or may not have had to sell 
certain insurance products - Im satisfied that this income protection insurance policy was 
suitable for Mr Os needs. Im also satisfied that Bradford & Bingley provided him with 
information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading. 
This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mr O, so I wont be directing Bradford & 
Bingley to do anything further.  
Bradford & Bingley referred to Mr Os case as complex in several letters to him. Whether or 
not I, in my own subjective opinion, think that Mr Os case is complex doesnt change my 
final decision that his policy wasnt mis-sold. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman