DRN-1662919
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by a third party, says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in January 2005 with a credit card. 
What happened
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mrs B says she wasnt given a choice about taking the cover and in any event didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B still 
thinks she was mis-sold the PPI and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs B says she probably bought the cover during a telephone call. But from what Ive seen it 
looks as if she applied for the PPI on an application form that she sent in by post. 
These events are now over 15 years ago but Tesco has managed to provide me with the 
card and PPI application form that Mrs B filled in before posting it. From that, I can see the 
application form gave Mrs B the option of choosing to buy PPI with her new credit card under 
a large heading that reads Payment Protection. Mrs B agreed to take the PPI by ticking a 
box on the form. There was another box she could have ticked if she didnt want it. So I can 
see that Mrs B made a definite choice about PPI. 
I think Tesco properly obtained her consent. I note this was a postal application and not an 
advised sale. So Tesco didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for her. The 
decision about buying the cover was for Mrs B to make and she would have made her way 
through the postal form without any intervention from Tesco.  
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
So I think Mrs B would most likely have had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision. I can certainly see ways in which the form could have been set out more 
clearly but I dont think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mrs B 
went on to do. This is because Ive looked at Mrs Bs situation and I think she was eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 75p per £100 of the outstanding card balance so I think this 
was affordable for her.
The PPI shed taken would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up 
to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other means she 
had at that time. 
I understand Mrs B didnt wasnt entitled to any benefits from her employer if she was unable 
to work  so she would only get statutory sick pay. So she had no other means of meeting 
her card repayments if she couldnt work. So I have to look very carefully to see what other 
financial resources may have been available.  
Mrs B also told us about other insurance she has which she considers may have helped her 
if necessary. 
First, Ive seen that Mrs B already had a stand-alone PPI policy. This was intended to give 
her a fixed monthly sum if she wasnt working. So if she made a successful claim it would be 
up to her to decide how to use it. Potentially I can see it could have covered her Tesco card 
if she wanted it to  but I also need to keep in mind that Mrs B had no entitlement to 
employer benefits. So whilst it might help Mrs B to meet some monthly payments and 
outgoings, I can see that there was still a need to have the PPI that would specifically meet 
Mrs Bs card payments in the event that she wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Mrs B also had an income protection policy if she is unable to work due to illness. This is 
something that typically pays out a monthly or annual lump sum, but usually only after a long 
period of unemployment  and in this case only after a year. So its a type of insurance that 
tends to work alongside PPI, which typically pays out much sooner and very often only for a 
fixed period. 
So overall I think the PPI was of use to Mrs B.
I dont find that PPI was mis-sold. Having said that, Tesco paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs B because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told her about that. Because it didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. To put that right, Tesco paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
anything to Mrs B.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman