DRN-2620171
The complaint
Miss C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) incorrectly diagnosed a fault with her car
after replacing a part with another faulty part when she claimed on her roadside assistance
policy.  
What happened
Miss Cs car broke down, so she called UKI to claim on her policy. UKI attended Miss Cs car
and said the coil pack needed replacing. Miss C agreed to UKI repairing her car and paid for
the parts as they werent included in her policy. Once UKI had replaced the coil pack the
fault was still present and UKI diagnosed another fault with her car. Because of this UKI
recommended her car was taken to a manufacturing garage to fix the fault.
A manufacturing garage inspected Miss Cs car and said as the replacement coil pack UKI
fitted wasnt a genuine manufacturers part it could cause the issues her car had. They
therefore changed the coil pack with a genuine one which repaired the fault. Miss C didnt
think it was fair that UKI had charged her for repairing her car and not done it properly, so
she complained to UKI.
UKI looked into Miss Cs complaint and upheld it. It said as the coil pack it had fitted had
been disposed of it couldnt be checked to confirm whether it was faulty. However, after
looking at the fault Miss Cs car had UKI concluded it was most likely that a faulty coil pack
had been fitted. Because of this UKI refunded Miss C what it had charged for the coil pack
and also paid Miss C £50 towards her diagnosis costs with the manufacturing garage. Miss
C didnt think this was good enough and brought her complaint here. She said her car had
been with the manufacturing garage for two days which she felt she should be compensated
for.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 February 2021 where I said:
Miss Cs policy says it will provide assistance in the event her car breaks down and that UKI
will attempt to repair her car at the roadside. It goes onto say that parts arent covered under
the policy and that if it cant be repaired at the roadside her car will be recovered to a
garage.
UKI has accepted that Miss C had a valid claim on her policy and that the likely cause of her
car not being repaired at the roadside, is because a faulty replacement coil pack was fitted.
Ive therefore considered whether what UKI has offered to put things right is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
When UKI attended Miss Cs car it replaced the coil pack. This is the same repair the
manufacturing garage did when Miss Cs car was recovered to it, after UKI couldnt repair it
at the roadside. Im not persuaded that fitting a non-manufacturer part was the problem, I
think its more likely the replacement part UKI fitted was faulty. And as UKI fitted a faulty
replacement part to Miss Cs car shes now incurred additional costs she wouldnt have if
UKI had fitted a working non-manufacturer coil pack to her car.
Miss C has said shes paid more for the coil pack and been charged £60 for diagnosing the
fault. I can also see Miss C has been charged labour for fitting the coil pack by the
manufacturing garage. These are additional cost she wouldnt have had if UKI had fitted a
working part to her car. The fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for UKI to pay
Miss C the difference in the repair cost she paid the manufacturing garage to what UKI
charged.
Ive also considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Miss C has had because
of this. If UKI had repaired her car at the roadside, with a working coil pack, she wouldnt
have had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of having her car recovered and
repaired by the manufacturing garage. I therefore think UKI should pay Miss C £100 to
recognise this unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Miss C responded and accepted my provisional decision. UKI responded and didnt accept 
it. It said the manufacturing garage had diagnosed the issue as a non-genuine part being 
fitted. Therefore, Miss C would always have had to pay for a genuine part to be fitted. It also 
pointed out that parts arent covered under Miss Cs policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered UKIs response and its not persuaded me to change my mind. I say this 
because UKIs own internal notes say that the supplier has confirmed 10-15 of these parts 
are fitted a day and theyve not had an issue before. The internal notes also say they dont 
think the brand has anything to do with it, and that its more likely a faulty part. Because of 
this I think that on balance its more likely a faulty part. And so I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold this complaint. I require U K
Insurance Limited to pay Miss C the difference in repair cost she paid the manufacturing
garage, including diagnosis and labour, for the coil pack compared to what U K Insurance
Limited charged her. In addition, U K I Insurance Limited also needs to pay Miss
C £100 for distress an inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman