DRN-1651773
 
The complaint
Ms D complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy with the 
way it handled her car insurance claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. I will highlight that part of Ms Ds complaint, that has been brought by her 
representative, referred to the way liability was settled. But as she has accepted the fault 
claim against her, in order to draw a line under things, the sole thing left to consider is the 
level of compensation she should get in acknowledgement of Advantages poor service 
which I will focus on here.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 
Advantage accepts its service could have been better. It agrees that several 
mistakes were made, and the level of service wasnt up to the standard Ms D should 
expect. It offered £150 compensation while the investigator thought £250 was fairer.
It is accepted by Advantage, having reviewed some of the calls where liability was 
discussed, that contradictory expectations were set which caused Ms D unnecessary 
confusion and upset.
Ms D also provided details for a witness to the incident, but no contact was attempted 
until after liability had been decided when Ms D questioned this. Indeed, I note that a 
voicemail wasnt left, and an email was only sent to the witness months later. There 
isnt any guarantee that a statement from the witness wouldve impacted liability. But 
not contacting the witness, in a meaningful way, was poor. And so, I agree that 
Advantage should compensate Ms D for its poor investigation here.
But, what sways me to lift the compensation level, is that Ms Ds representative told 
Advantage not to contact Ms D but to contact him. This was because she was 
undergoing medical treatment where it was necessary to avoid stressful situations.
But Advantage did contact Ms D directly on two separate occasions. Taking into 
consideration Ms Ds specific circumstances I think this added to the level of stress 
and inconvenience she faced, while undertaking treatment. 
From the information Ive seen, I dont think Advantage handled Ms Ds claim very 
well. Ive considered its offer of £150. But I dont think thats enough to compensate 
Ms D for the trouble and upset it caused by its overall handling of the claim, 
especially making direct contact in these circumstances.
Considering all of this, I agree with the investigator that £250 is a fairer reflection of 
the stress and inconvenience caused.
 My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited should pay Ms D £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman