DRN-3720076
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost, after he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr M has said a friend recommended a job to him, which entailed completing tasks on 
different, well known, social media platforms. The proposition involved Mr M purchasing a 
package which would allow him to access an application, in order for him to carry out the 
tasks.
Mr Ms friend provided him with an invitation code, which Mr M used to express his interest 
in the work. Mr M has said he also carried out research on the company and found the 
company to be registered. He added that he had friends already using the application, who 
had been able to withdraw money and was reassured that the company had a customer 
services department and what he thought was a legitimate website.
Trusting things to be genuine Mr M has said he also engaged with an accountant to help him 
set up a limited company for the work, as hes said he wanted to go through the right 
channels. Mr M has said he was given the option as to whether any earnings would be made 
to him through an application or via crypto wallets, but as he didnt have any crypto wallets 
and thought bank transfers were safer he opted for that.
Mr M initially made a payment of £1,000 on 21 January 2022, from an account with another 
banking provider, but having made the payment he wasnt able to purchase the package.   
Mr M questioned this with the companys customer service team and was told there had 
been an issue with their banking system, so the £1,000 would be refunded to him. And it was 
suggested Mr M make two smaller payments, he was told there wouldnt be any problems 
with the smaller payments going through and hed then have the package.
Mr M received the refund, along with what he was told was a bonus (but which was in fact a 
bait payment) of £49.68 into his Monzo account, by way of two payments. With £500 being 
received on 23 January 2022 and £549.68 being received on 30 January 2022. Hes said it 
was refunded into his Monzo account, rather than the account with the other banking 
provider, as when setting up his application details he had provided his Monzo details for 
receiving payments.
Mr M then went ahead and made two payments from his Monzo account, in order to 
purchase the package he thought he needed to carry out the work. A breakdown of these 
payments is below;
29 January 2022 £500.00
1 February 2022 £500.00
Mr M has said he could see that, having started to carry out the work, earnings were being 
paid into his wallet. But when he tried to withdraw funds he received a message to say there 
was an error with his account. Following further unsuccessful attempts to withdraw his 
money, and when the companys website and online social media page was taken down, he 
realised hed been scammed.
Mr M raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to the 
provisions of it. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Monzo 
investigated Mr Ms fraud claim but didnt uphold it. In summary, this was because it said it 
had acted in line with its regulatory requirements and it didnt feel Mr M had taken enough 
steps to check who he was paying and what for.
Monzo added that it provided warnings to Mr M, at the time he made the payments. Monzo 
did try to recover Mr Ms money from the receiving bank (the bank to whom the money was 
sent), but no funds remained.
Mr M didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
Monzo should refund Mr M the money he lost, along with interest. In summary, she didnt 
think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Mr M under the provisions of the 
CRM code.
Monzo didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary it maintained Mr M hadnt 
carried out enough checks and, considering what the job was, questioned the likelihood and 
the legitimacy of it. It also thought what Mr M was being offered was too good to be true.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Mr M the money he 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr M 
lost.
- The money was taken from Mr Ms current account. It is not clear how Mr M would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr M would 
not have been deprived of it for the time he has so Monzo should also pay interest on 
the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, from the date Monzo 
decided not to refund Mr M under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
I know Mr M has referred to other consumers, who have received refunds, having fallen 
victim to the same scam. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may 
seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances.In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides as well 
as the relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Of particular relevance here, the CRM Code says that the victim of an APP scam such as 
this should be reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the 
limited exceptions to reimbursement can be applied. Ive considered all of the points Monzo 
has raised. But I find that Monzo has not been able to show that Mr M made these payments 
without having a reasonable basis for believing he was making these payments for a 
legitimate reason. Ill explain why;
- Mr M has carried out his own research before proceeding to make the payment. He 
was able to visit what appeared to be a legitimate website and saw that the company 
had legitimate looking pages on well-known social media platforms.
- Mr M wasnt contacted out of the blue regarding the job opportunity and, in being 
offered payment of between £20-£30 per day, I dont think what he was being offered 
in terms of remuneration could be considered too good to be true. I dont think this 
relatively modest rate of return is typical for scams of this type, where more 
commonly victims are enticed by overly inflated promises.
- I think its understandable how Mr M would have gained some reassurance when his 
initial payment of £1,000 was returned to him, along with a bonus payment. 
Alongside this he was also able to interact with the companys customer service 
team, as well as friends and other recruits. And when considering this its 
understandable how these interactions didnt prompt Mr M to be concerned that they 
werent as legitimate as they appeared.
- Monzo has said the nature of the work was unlikely and not believable. I dont think 
Monzo has given enough consideration here to the increased growth and 
opportunities in employment relating to social media positions over recent years. And 
of the importance that organisations now hold on social media presence and digital 
marketing. With this in mind I dont agree that the job Mr M was being presented with 
would have appeared either unrealistic or illegitimate to him.
- Given the sophistication of the scam, where he was given access to customer 
services, online chat functions, professional looking websites and payment wallets, I 
can understand why he moved passed this, especially considering hed been able to 
withdraw funds.
- Monzo has rightly pointed out that the company wasnt registered on Companies 
House until after Mr M had made his payments. I think its fair to conclude from this 
that Mr M didnt see the company registered on the government site until after hed 
made his payment. But this, in and of itself, isnt enough to fairly and reasonably say 
he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. And hes provided evidence from an 
alternative corporate site he checked, as well of evidence of him setting up a limited 
company ahead of making the payments, so Im persuaded he has attempted to do 
things through the right channels here, rather than proceed without any regard.
Mr M had not been scammed before, hes not an expert in all matters relating to frauds and 
scams, nor about how they work or can play out. I do think this is a finely balanced case and no doubt, with the benefit of hindsight, there may have been more things Mr M could have 
done. But that doesnt mean that he hasnt done enough. People dont want or expect to be 
scammed and I think overall and when considering things in the round, in the circumstances 
of this case Mr M took reasonable, appropriate, and proportionate steps to try and protect 
himself. I dont consider he had any reason to think who he was paying would not keep to 
their side of that bargain. Overall, Im not persuaded here that there was anything specific 
that would have appeared as a glaring red flag to Mr M that all might not have been as it 
seemed.
For completeness, Monzo has argued that it gave Mr M warnings. I dont think the warnings 
Monzo presented Mr M with would be considered as effective under the CRM Code. They 
were generic and not tailored to any particular scam type, not least the one Mr M fell victim 
to. They also didnt include details of any steps Mr M could take to protect himself. However 
having said that, I dont think the payments Mr M was making would have appeared as 
unusual or suspicious to Monzo (and therefore a lesser indication to it that Mr M may be a 
risk of fraud). So, I dont consider there was a requirement on Monzos part for effective 
warnings to be provided.
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that Mr M thought he was dealing with a 
legitimate company and making a payment towards a legitimate job. Im satisfied Mr M took 
proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for him to 
proceed in making the payments he did. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has shown that Mr M lacked a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments, 
or that he ignored an effective warning.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Mr M £950.32 being the remaining loss of the money he sent to the scammer 
(£1,000, less the £49.68 returned to him under the guise of a bonus)
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date Monzo declined Mr Ms claim to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman