DRN-2882398
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed the transfer of his Cash ISA 
(Individual Savings Account) to a Stocks and Shares ISA with another provider.
What happened
Mr R had a Cash ISA with Nationwide. Nationwide reduced the interest rate it was paying 
on the ISA. Mr R opened a Stocks and Shares ISA with another provider (B) and 
completed a transfer authority form on 30 April 2020 requesting Nationwide to transfer all 
of the funds in his Cash ISA to B.
B sent the transfer request to Nationwide by email on 5 May 2020. But the transfer wasnt 
completed until 15 June 2020. Mr R says that neither Nationwide nor B has accepted 
responsibility for the delay. And he says hes lost out as a result of the delay because the 
stocks hed intended to purchase as part of his Stocks and Shares ISA had changed in 
value.
Mr R complained to Nationwide. It initially said it hadnt received any request from B on 5 
May 2020. It then said it had received the request, but it hadnt been sent in a format which 
it was able to read. It said it had explained this to B, but B hadnt re-sent the transfer form 
to it. Nationwide acknowledged that Mr R had telephoned it on 21 May about this matter 
and it had agreed to phone him back. It hadnt done that. So, it agreed to pay him £50 by 
way of compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. It later increased this offer to 
£75 (in total) and paid him that amount. But Nationwide didnt accept it was responsible for 
any delay in processing the transfer request.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this response. He complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. She said that the guidelines stated that it could take 30 calendar 
days to transfer a Cash ISA to a Stocks and Shares ISA. In this case it had taken 47 days. 
But she said that the delays had been caused by a change in ways of working during the 
coronavirus pandemic. And, even if the transfer had taken place within the 30-day 
timeframe, she said Mr R wouldve missed out on the dip in stock prices for the stock he 
said he wanted to invest in. So, she didnt think Nationwide should have to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr R didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The guidelines for the transfer of an ISA indicate that it can take 30 
days to complete. Although Mr R points out he couldve closed the 
Cash ISA and paid the money into the Stocks and Shares ISA in a 
much shorter time, it is the case that if he had done that he wouldnt 
have been able to preserve the tax benefits associated with an ISA.
B emailed the transfer request to Nationwide on 5 May 2020. Nationwide 
received it but it says it wasnt able to open the attachment because its 
software didnt support the particular file type. It says it sent an email back 
to B on the same day (5 May 2020) to tell it that it needed the transfer form 
to be sent in a different format. I asked Nationwide to provide a copy of the 
email it sent back to B, but it says that due to the passage of time it cannot 
provide this, and it cant produce an audit trail to confirm any details about 
the email. It has produced evidence to show that a response was sent to B 
 but theres no evidence to indicate what that response said.
I also asked Nationwide for more details about why its software didnt 
support the particular file type. It says that it had made clear to all ISA 
providers it could only receive documents in .pdf format. It says it placed this 
information on the TISA database in April 2020. The TISA database is a 
database which includes a function to allow members (in this case both B 
and Nationwide are members) to share information about ISA transfers.
I asked Nationwide to provide a copy of the information it says it placed on 
the TISA database. It initially provided a copy of information it had placed on 
the TISA database which set out Nationwides email address for 
correspondence. I asked it to provide evidence that itd said documents had 
to be provided in .pdf format. It says it cant do that because the TISA 
database doesnt allow it to identify when changes were made. Its provided 
a copy of what the TISA database says in May 2021. At that date it does say 
that documents must be in .pdf format.
Having looked at the evidence provided by Nationwide, Im not persuaded 
on balance that its been able to support what its said here about 
informing B that it required documents in .pdf format or that it sent an 
email to it on 5 May to inform it that it was rejecting the transfer out form. 
As a result, I think Nationwide was responsible for a delay of 15 calendar 
days in the transfer process here.
Nationwide received a follow up request from B on 20 May 2020. Ive got a 
copy of that follow up request. It was sent to the correct email address at 
Nationwide. An email response was sent back to B on 6 June 2020 stating 
that Nationwide had the request and would process a payment in due 
course. Its not clear what correspondence was entered into between 20 
May and 6 June 2020.
Theres no doubt that Mr R was in contact with Nationwide on 21 May and 
28 May enquiring about what was happening. That may have prompted 
actions which resulted in B sending the form by post. Nationwide hasnt been 
able to provide copies of emails or correspondence to provide more details 
about this. But I can see that B posted a certified copy of the transfer form to 
Nationwide on 2 June 2020.
Nationwide confirmed in email correspondence with B, dated 6 June 2020, 
that it had received this document. And the transfer was completed on 11 
June 2020. The funds were credited to Mr Rs account with B on 15 June. 
So, there were matters that arose after 20 May that needed to be dealt 
with, and which took additional time. Part of the reason for that was because Nationwide seemed to require the form to be posted to it. Ive 
thought about that when considering the overall time period here.
As mentioned above the guidelines say a transfer of this nature shouldnt 
take more than 30 calendar days, starting on the date the new provider 
receives the ISA transfer instruction. The 30 days isnt mandatory  but its 
regarded as best practice and should be achievable.
Mr R says he signed the transfer form on 30 April. Due to issues with the 
postal services during the coronavirus pandemic, this wasnt received by B 
at that time. But there was an agreement within the financial services 
industry that unsigned forms could be sent electronically. So, for these 
purposes, the transfer here started on 30 April 2020. It took 47 calendar 
days to complete. Im satisfied it wouldve completed earlier but for the 
delays that Ive referred to above. So, I think its likely it wouldve 
completed by 29 May 2020  which was the end of the 30-day period.
Ive then considered what impact this delay had on Mr Rs decisions 
and what loss he suffered as a result.
Mr Rs told us that between 30 April 2020 and 29 May 2020 the value of the 
shares he wanted to invest in changed. He says that the shares increased in 
value by almost £18000 during this period  and because of the delays he 
lost out on that. He says that between 29 May 2020 and 14 June 2020 the 
share prices for the stock he wouldve invested in continued to rise and he 
lost a further £2600.
Ive considered what Mr R has said here and looked at what he ultimately 
decided to do.
The funds were transferred to his account with B on 15 June 2020. He didnt 
purchase any shares until 24 and 25 June. He bought shares in a number of 
companies at that time. But, I can see that this included only one of the 
three companies hes mentioned. He used just over 25% of the total amount 
transferred to purchase shares in that company.
Having thought about what Mr R has said and the actions he took here, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to say he lost out financially because of the 
delay. I know Mr R feels strongly that he should be compensated because of 
the delay. So, Ill explain why, having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded he wouldve done anything differently, or suffered any financial 
loss, even if the transfer had completed on 29 May.
Share prices can rise and fall. The shares Mr R says he was interested in 
were subject to that same volatility. By 29 May 2020 the share prices in the 
three companies hes referred to had already increased significantly from 
what they were on 30 April 2020 when he started the transfer process. Hes 
told us that he thinks the total profit he wouldve made on the three share 
types during this period wouldve been around £18000. But, at 29 May 2020, 
it wouldve already been too late for Mr R to have bought into that increase 
in value. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that he should 
be compensated for what happened to share prices before that date.
After 15 June 2020, he didnt purchase the shares in two of the companies 
hes mentioned. He did purchase shares in one of the companies. I can see that on the dates he purchased those shares (24 and 25 June), the share 
price was lower than it had been on 29 May 2020. So, he paid less for those 
shares than he wouldve done on 29 May. And, having considered the fact 
that he didnt purchase shares in the other two companies hes mentioned, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to have to 
compensate him for potential losses when he didnt realise any actual losses 
on shares after he decided not to purchase them.
Ive noted that Nationwide has already paid Mr R £75 because it didnt return 
his telephone call after telling him it would. I think thats fair and reasonable 
for the inconvenience he experienced. So, my current view is that I dont 
require it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
In response to my provisional decision Nationwide said it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said our service had decided to review 
and treat his complaint in this case as two separate complaints  one about Nationwide and 
the other about B. He said this meant that the information from both Nationwide and B hadnt 
been considered together when considering the merits of his case.
Mr R also told us:
Both Nationwide and B had a duty of care when transferring the money and should 
have done that in a reasonable time  that hadnt happened.
Hed suffered a financial loss as a result of the delay. He said that even taking 
account of the 30-day period the industry used for making transfers of this nature  
he had lost out on the value of the shares hed intended to purchase between day 30 
and day 47 (which was when the transfer had taken place). He said hed lost 
£2600.90 as a result. He didnt buy the shares hed intended to, because he says the 
opportunity had passed.
Hed lost out on interest. He said that even allowing for a very low rate of interest of 
0.01% his funds wouldve earned interest of over £125 during the 47-day period it 
took to make the transfer.
He reiterated that hed contacted Nationwide several times during the 47-day period 
but it had failed to look into the matter and hadnt treated it as urgent. This was an 
example of the lackadaisical approach and complete lack of due diligence shown 
by Nationwide.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. I know this will disappoint Mr R  so, Ill explain 
why.
Mr R has expressed concern that his complaint about the delay in the transfer of his funds 
from Nationwide to B has been dealt with as two separate complaints. He says this means that all of the information hadnt been properly taken into account when I reached my 
provisional decision. 
When our service considers a complaint, we look at all of the evidence and arguments 
before reaching a decision. And although there are two financial firms involved here  
Nationwide and B  we have looked at the actions taken by each of those firms separately. 
That doesnt mean when looking at the actions taken by Nationwide I havent also 
considered its interactions with B and Bs responses. So, for example in my provisional 
decision I have commented on the email exchanges between Nationwide and B and Ive 
also commented on the investments Mr R ultimately made with B. 
It is the case that after considering all of the evidence and arguments I said, in my 
provisional decision, I was satisfied the transfer wouldve completed earlier but for the delays 
caused by Nationwide. I havent changed that view. And I still think its likely the transfer 
wouldve completed by 29 May 2020 had those delays not occurred. 29 May 2020 was the 
end of the 30-day period.
Mr R says he has suffered financial loss. Hes referred to the loss of interest on the money 
that was being transferred. But during the transfer process, Mr R wouldve continued to 
receive interest from Nationwide, on the funds which were being transferred, right up to the 
point when the funds were transferred to B  11 June. The closing statement from 
Nationwide shows that closing interest was added to the account on 11 June 2020. So, Im 
not persuaded Mr R lost out on 47 days interest as a result of Nationwides actions.
In my provisional decision, I said that I didnt think it was fair or reasonable to require 
Nationwide to compensate Mr R for losses he says he suffered when he ultimately decided 
not to go ahead and purchase the shares hed intended to purchase. 
First, I explained why I didnt think it would be fair to require Nationwide to compensate him 
for potential losses that arose prior to 29 May 2020. As I said in my provisional decision, by 
29 May 2020 the share prices in the three companies hed referred to had already increased 
significantly from what they were on 30 April 2020 when he started the transfer process. He 
says the increase equated to around £18,000. So, at 29 May 2020, which I think is the date 
its reasonable to say the transfer would have completed but for the delays caused by 
Nationwide, it wouldve already been too late for Mr R to have bought into that increase in 
value. 
I then looked at what happened after 29 May. Mr R says he didnt go ahead and purchase 
the shares hed intended to because the opportunity had passed. 
Having considered everything here, Ive not seen anything which would persuade me that he 
wouldve purchased the shares, or in the amounts, that he says hed originally intended to, 
had the transfer completed on 29 May 2020. As he says, the opportunity had already 
passed. And, he wouldve taken that into account had he made investment decisions and 
choices at that time. 
It is the case that after the transfer was made, Mr R decided not to purchase the shares he 
says hed originally intended to. At that time, he made alternative investment choices and 
decisions. And, because of the choices he made at that time, he didnt realise any actual 
losses.
I have noted that one of the choices he made was to proceed with the purchase of one of the 
share types hed originally intended to purchase. But he paid less for those shares on the 
date he purchased them than he wouldve paid if the transfer had completed on 29 May. 
And, he decided to use 25% of the transferred funds to make that purchase. So, he didnt suffer any loss insofar as that share purchase was concerned. He also made different 
investment choices regarding the other shares hed originally intended to purchase. So, he 
didnt make any actual losses.
Although Im satisfied, on balance, that Nationwide was responsible for delays here, Im not 
persuaded, for the reasons set out above, that Mr R suffered any financial loss as a result. In 
these circumstances, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to 
compensate him for losses that were not realised.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Nationwide has already paid Mr R £75 which I 
thought was fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. So, I 
didnt think Nationwide should have to pay him anything more. I remain of that view. I dont 
require Nationwide to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman