DRN-3921195
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the service received from Cofunds Limited (trading under the 
brand name of Aegon) when she asked to withdraw funds from her Stocks and Shares ISA 
to a bank account.  
What happened
Ms M held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Aegon. Ms M was able to choose investments from 
a number of unit trusts and open-ended investment company funds (OEICS). Aegon called 
the account an Investor Portfolio Service (IPS) ISA. 
Ms M says she tried to make a withdrawal of £3000 from her IPS ISA on 7 May 2021 and 
was told by Aegon at that time that it would take up to 12 working days to process. Ms M 
was looking to transfer £3000 to a bank account. She was not happy with the proposed time 
frame for this transfer to take place and chased this up with Aegon staff. 
On 24 May 2021, which Ms M says was on the twelfth working day since she put in her 
request, she received a letter from Aegon saying it needed to verify her identity. She was not 
happy with this as she was expecting the money to be transferred on this date. 
Aegon confirmed on 28 May 2021 that a financial statement sent to Ms Ms address had 
been returned and had been marked up as not at this address. It says that due to anti-
money laundering rules it needed to put restrictions on Ms Ms account as it couldnt verify 
that she was living there. This, it says, meant that it couldnt carry out her withdrawal 
request. 
Due to some confusion over a paragraph in Aegons letter to Ms M and use of the word 
switch, Ms M then went to a third provider and asked it to start the process of switching her 
account with Aegon to it. It attempted to do this, but Aegon had put restrictions in place 
which meant that it would not withdraw any funds until further verification was provided by 
Ms M. So, a withdrawal of all funds from Aegon to another provider didnt happen either.
Ms M was unhappy with Aegon for several reasons, including how it responded to her 
requests, and why it didnt withdraw a proportion of her funds or go on to transfer all of them 
to another provider. She complained to our service about what had happened.   
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Ms M has said in a recent submission that her complaint is not about anti-money laundering 
requirements that Aegon has implemented on her account. She says that it is how Aegon 
has dealt with her complaint. She believes it could have done more to resolve the issues that 
have stopped her from withdrawing funds. I acknowledge the strength of Ms Ms feelings 
with this and understand the point she is making. But when I look at her unresolved 
complaint points, I can see that the restrictions that have been put on her account and 
actions that have come from that, lie at the centre of her dissatisfaction. And so, I think it 
would be helpful if I make findings on whether Aegon did all that it ought to with Ms Ms 
account, when it received returned mail relating to her.
Restrictions Aegon placed on Ms Ms IPS ISA
Aegon sent a financial statement to Ms M at the address she had given it in March 2021. It 
was returned and received back to Aegon. On the front of the correspondence Aegon say, it 
is written not at this address. So, off the back of this, Aegon carried out an electronic check 
to see if it could verify her address. The provider that it used could not verify her address and 
so it put restrictions on Ms Ms account. One of these restrictions was that no withdrawals 
could be made. Aegon has told our service that, at that time, it did not hold a phone number 
or email address for Ms M. So, on seeing the returned mail and in its view, not having any 
other way of communicating with Ms M, it marked her account as having gone away.
Ms M then contacted Aegon on 7 May 2021 and asked to withdraw £3000. She was told by 
staff that it would take up to 12 working days to process her request. Ms M was not happy 
with Aegons timeframe for implementing what she wanted but I note at this stage, Aegon 
have stated that it would take up to 12 working days and that if the parties could do the 
transfer in a quicker time frame, then it would do so. I dont think this is an unreasonable 
thing for Aegon to say here at this point, that it would try and implement the request as 
quickly as it could and within 12 working days.
Aegon then sent a letter out to Ms M eight working days later stating to her that it needed 
verification of her identity. This being for the reasons I have already given, regarding the 
restrictions placed on her account and the returned statement. At this stage, Ms Ms 
withdrawal request was not straight forward, and so I would have expected it to take some 
additional time for the parties to sort between them the necessary paperwork to ensure the 
verification was dealt with. 
Ms M has told our service that she sold the property that she is currently using as a postal 
address. She has told us that she doesnt want to give a temporary address and still wants 
to use her previous address to have her mail sent to. This is more likely than not why the 
electric checks Aegon carried out did not verify this address to her name. Ms M has also told 
our service that she doesnt have a valid passport or driving licence that she can provide. 
Although more recently she has told us that she does have a valid passport and it could be 
arranged that her solicitor certify it and send a copy. 
Ms M has received other correspondence from Aegon at her previous address and she has 
told us that she has no problems with mail being returned by other financial service 
providers. But I do note that two more letters have been sent back returned to Aegon. One in 
June 2021 and then more recently in June 2022. And a letter from our service was also 
returned to us. 
I can see why Aegon placed the restrictions that it did in March 2021. It had sent financial 
information to Ms M, and this was returned to it. It carried out an electronic check and this 
did not verify Ms M with the address that she had supplied it. It also didnt have any other 
contact details for her recorded on its system such as a phone number. So, I can see why it 
needed to restrict Ms Ms account and protect her finances at this stage. And going forward 
until it was able to receive the necessary information from Ms M. She was unable to produce 
any bills or documents from the address because she didnt live there. And she was unable 
to produce other documents such as a driving licence. But also, Ive not seen anything from 
Ms M that suggests she tried to provide any information to Aegon that it needed to verify her 
again, either. So, all it could do was continue to place restrictions on Ms Ms account and 
protect her finances until Ms M made contact and provided the information it needed to verify 
her details.In summary, I dont think I can find any failings with Aegons actions when it restricted Ms 
Ms account. I cant see that it could have done anymore with the circumstances it was faced 
with, with Ms M not providing information to it or not being able to for the reasons I have 
already given.  
Ms M says Aegon should have been more proactive and contacted her sooner. She says if 
Aegon had been more transparent in March 2021 and contacted her about the returned 
letter then it wouldnt have needed to have put the restrictions on her account in the first 
place. She has also queried why representatives from Aegon didnt inform her sooner about 
the restrictions when she contacted it to chase the withdrawal up. But based on what I have 
already concluded, I dont know what would have changed here if it had done so. I think 
based on what has happened, on balance, Ms M would still have not being able to or would 
not have provided information to Aegon if it had contacted her sooner. 
I can also see why initially in March 2021 Aegon wouldnt have contacted her. It had 
received a returned letter with a comment that Ms M was not at that address, and it had no 
other contact details for her. It also carried out an electronic check that failed to verify Ms M 
too. So, I can see why it wouldnt have sent another letter to the same address that it had 
just marked up that Ms M had gone away from. When Ms M then went on to contact Aegon 
in May 2021, I can then see why it would then try and make contact again, as Ms M had 
called and had given her previous address in the withdrawal request. So again, I dont think 
Aegon could have done more, in the circumstances here, than what it did do. 
Ms M has also asked whether within the financial regulations, Aegon can withhold financial 
statements from her for over year. But I dont think Aegon withheld financial statements from 
Ms M. It put restrictions on Ms Ms account as it couldnt verify her address. So, I can see 
why, in these circumstances, it didnt send statements to an unverified address. And I can 
also see that it did go on to send all the statements that Ms M requested, when it felt it had 
satisfied its responsibilities relating to anti money laundering. 
Ms Ms credit file 
Ms M has asked for written confirmation from Aegon that all negative markers have been 
taken off her file and that these markers do not affect her credit score. Aegon has recently 
confirmed that it has taken off the restrictions from her account and removed any markers 
that it had placed on her file. I have already concluded that Aegon were right to place 
restrictions on Ms Ms account and seek verification from her to ensure the security of her 
funds. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong here either. 
The investigator from our service provided an update to Ms M about the anti-money 
laundering markers and that these plus the restrictions had been lifted from her account. 
This was initially because Aegon had carried out a further electronic verification check and 
Ms M had come back as verified, on this occasion. Aegon then received a further returned 
letter so placed restrictions again on Ms Ms account. A representative has in recent times 
again taken the markers and restrictions off Ms Ms account, I can only assume because of 
the correspondence between the parties and our service.    
Ms M has asked if the goneaway markers can be removed from the statements she has 
been provided. As I have already stated Aegon has confirmed that the markers have been 
removed from her account so if this remains to be the case, any statements going forward 
should reflect this.
Ms Ms withdrawal request going forwardMs M says Aegon has requested that she submit a new withdrawal request. Ms M says that 
she would like Aegon to confirm that it will keep the overall value of the ISA as it would have 
been if she had transferred her ISA to another provider in June 2021. She has told our 
service she is reluctant to put another withdrawal form in until she receives this confirmation.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Aegon to do this though. I have not found that 
it has made any failings in the way it has handled Ms Ms withdrawal requests to date and so 
it follows that I also dont require it to put anything right here either. So, if Ms M still wants to 
proceed with her withdrawal to another service provider, then she would need to put in a 
new request with Aegon and go from there. 
Looking at Ms Ms complaint overall, I dont think Aegon did anything wrong  so theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right. It follows that I am not directing Aegon to do 
anything to put things right here.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Aegon did not respond by the deadline and has not provided 
any comments.
Ms M has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. She said that my 
provisional decision was not fully considered and would like her complaint reviewed. I have 
read her response carefully and all the points that she has made. Its clear how strongly Ms 
M feels about her complaint, and I want to assure her that Ive carried out an independent 
review and considered everything that both parties have submitted.
 
We provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts and 
this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and 
concentrate on the core issues I need to address to reach a fair outcome  this means I 
might not mention everything Ms M has said, but I will comment on everything that makes a 
difference to the outcome of the complaint.
With this in mind, I think the core issues raised by Ms M in her response from 14 January 
2023 to my provisional decision are as follows:
Contact details 
oMs M says she made her request to withdraw £3000 on 7 May 2021. She 
said she made a number of calls to Aegon to chase and speed up the 
process. 
oShe said no-one at Aegon informed her during this time that there were any 
issues despite receiving a returned letter several weeks earlier. She said it 
was only on the 12th working day after her withdrawal request that she 
received a letter from it requesting verification. 
oMs M gave several reasons why she felt Aegon may have omitted or deleted 
her phone number from its systems. She said it wouldve held her number 
when it inherited her as a customer from a third party. She says it is unjust 
and unfair to suggest she is at fault for this.
oMs M says there was no reason though for Aegon not to have her number 
after a member of staff called her back using it shortly after she made her 
complaint. 
 Communication from Aegon
oMs M made several comments about communications from Aegon including 
mistakes that she felt it made within letters it had sent her.oWith regards to returned mail, she said there were only two returned letters in 
2021 and that was it. She added that Aegon had erroneously placed markers 
on her account in 2022. 
Value of Ms Ms portfolio
oMs M says the value of her portfolio has substantially decreased since June 
2021 when she unsuccessfully attempted to switch providers.
oShe said Aegons decision to deny her switching funds or providers and 
withhold statements, did not take into consideration that she would not be 
informed with the relevant content she needed to make decisions about her 
funds.
oShe said it is against FCA financial regulations to withhold statements for so 
long. She said Aegons lack of regard for the consequences of its actions had 
meant she had lost out financially. She said as well as her portfolio 
decreasing in value, she had had the distress and inconvenience of dealing 
with these issues and this has affected her. 
Covid
oMs M said the pandemic brought on unprecedented times of lockdowns and 
restrictions. She said this was not taken into account within my provisional 
decision.
oShe said she requested the cash withdrawal mid-covid and these were cash 
strapped times. She said she was keen to pay some outstanding money 
owed so was relying on the withdrawal. 
oMs M said the pandemic brought challenges for everyone and Aegon would 
not accommodate her situation. She said she gave it a solution, that it could 
verify her circumstances with Nationwide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contact details
Ms M has made several comments about her contact details. She said Aegon wouldve 
had her phone number and that it may have deleted it. She said this was not her fault. 
She said if it had her phone number, it couldve called her to resolve the verification 
issues sooner. So that when she went to make a withdrawal it wouldve already been 
resolved. 
I acknowledge what Ms M is saying with regards to her contact details, but Aegon has 
told our service that it didnt have a phone number for Ms M, prior to her making a 
complaint. I havent seen any information from either party that would persuade me that it 
did hold Ms Ms number and either didnt use this to contact Ms M or had deleted it. So, I 
think on balance, Aegon didnt have Ms Ms phone number at the time it first received 
returned mail from her. Because of this it was unable to contact her, so to protect her 
money it placed restrictions on her account.
Aegon had received a returned letter with a comment that Ms M was not at that address, and 
it had no other contact details for her. It also carried out an electronic check that failed to 
verify Ms M too. So again, I dont think Aegon could have done more, in the circumstances here, than what it did do, which was send another letter to her given address when she tried 
to make a withdrawal request. 
Communication with Aegon
Ms M said that Aegon had erroneously placed markers on her account in June 2022. She 
considered that only two letters had been returned to it and these were both in 2021. 
Aegon said it received a further returned letter in June 2022 and so placed restrictions again 
on Ms Ms account. Although I cant be sure what happened here, Aegon has been clear 
about why it placed markers on Ms Ms account. And I havent been persuaded based on 
what has been said and provided by both parties that anything else happened other than 
what Aegon has said, which is that a letter was returned in June 2022, and it again placed 
markers on Ms Ms account.
In any case, I dont think this made any difference to the outcome of this complaint as she 
was still able to go on to verify herself and Aegon has told our service that it has since 
removed all markers from her account.
Value of Ms Ms portfolio
Ms M has made several comments about the value of her portfolio. She says it has 
substantially decreased since June 2021 when she unsuccessfully attempted to switch 
providers. But I dont think this is due to any failings on Aegons part. This is because I have 
already concluded that Aegon were right to put restrictions on Ms Ms account when it did, to 
protect her money in the circumstances that it did this. I havent seen or read anything since 
I issued my provisional decision that changes my conclusion here. 
Ms M again said it is against FCA financial regulations to withhold statements from her and 
said this had consequences in that she lost out financially. But again, I dont think Aegon 
withheld statements from her, rather it put restrictions on her account to protect her money, 
and in doing so I think it is right that it didnt send any correspondence to the address given 
until it could verify Ms Ms details. 
Covid
Finally, Ms M said that her complaint should be considered within the context of everything 
that was happening at the time of her withdrawal request and what happened after that 
point. She said all these events happened within a global pandemic, with unprecedented 
times of lockdowns and restrictions.
I acknowledge everything Ms M has said about this and can empathise with the situation she 
found herself in. She said she needed to make a withdrawal as she was keen to pay some 
outstanding money owed and I understand the frustration she must have felt at not being 
able to do this. 
That said, I can see why Aegon placed the restrictions that it did in March 2021. It had sent 
financial information to Ms M, and this was returned to it. It carried out an electronic check 
and this did not verify Ms M with the address that she had supplied it. It also didnt have any 
other contact details for her recorded on its system such as a phone number. Aegon also 
had a procedure in place to verify Ms Ms account and its staff were trained to follow this. I 
dont think it is reasonable to expect Aegon to not follow its own money laundering 
procedures, especially as they are designed to protect Ms Ms finances. In conclusion, I have not found any failings in the way Aegon has handled Ms Ms withdrawal 
requests or in how it has dealt with correspondence with Ms M. 
I know the outcome will be disappointing for Ms M, but I hope at least that the way I have 
laid out my reasoning will explain why I have reached my decision. I would like to thank Ms 
M for taking the time to put forward her complaint and for providing her comments along with 
the chronology of events, but for the reasons I have given, I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman