DRN-4510903
The complaint
Ms A complaints American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) declined a 
claim she brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
bouncy castle she purchased using her Amex credit card.
What happened
Ms A used her Amex credit card to purchase a bouncy castle from a supplier, T, on 4 April 
2021 for £599.95. The transaction was processed via a well-known digital wallet operator, 
P. 
In late May 2021 Ms A tried to use the bouncy castle for the first time but it would not inflate 
due to a leak. She discovered a tear in the fabric which her husband tried to repair 
unsuccessfully with heavy duty tape. Ms A reported the problem to T, asking for a 
replacement. T said it would instead try to repair the bouncy castle and provided instructions 
for Ms A to return the item at its own cost.
T received the bouncy castle on 24 June 2021 and emailed Ms A to say it was wet and 
mouldy and this would delay the repair as it would need to be dried out first. T had 
completed the repairs by 12 July 2021 and sent the item back to Ms A. On 20 July 2021 
Ms A emailed T to say that the bouncy castle was working but must still have a leak as it 
kept going floppy. T emailed back the same day to ask for a video of the problem as they 
had not noticed this after completing the repairs. Ms A replied that she had taken the bouncy 
castle down because it was due to rain but would share a recording once the weather clears 
up.
Around 11 months later, in June 2022, Ms A sent two videos of the bouncy castle to T to 
demonstrate the problem. She did not receive a reply and requested a full refund for the item 
on 2 August 2023, about a year later. It appears Ms A received no reply this time either and 
approached Amex to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Amex considered the claim and rejected it on 21 August 2023, giving the following reasons:
Ms A had paid for the bouncy castle via P, instead of paying T directly, and this 
meant Amex couldnt be held liable for any issues with the item under section 75 of 
the CCA.
Ms A hadnt provided enough evidence that any alleged issues with the bouncy 
castle were due to an inherent fault rather than wear and tear or misuse.
Ms A complained about Amexs decision but it stood by its conclusions in a final response 
dated 23 September 2023. Dissatisfied with this response, Ms A referred her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into Ms As case. He concluded that the length of time which 
had passed before Ms A sent a video of the problems with the bouncy castle meant this 
evidence was less persuasive of there being a fault with the item when it was purchased or 
that this fault had been the subject of an unsuccessful repair. Ms A disagreed and made 
further submissions to support her case, which included sending copies of the videos shed 
provided to T.
Our investigator was not convinced however. He thought that, on balance, the bouncy castle 
did have a fault when it was supplied, because T had agreed to take it back and repair it. T 
had repaired the item and there was no persuasive evidence that the repair had been 
unsuccessful. He said he didnt think the videos demonstrated that the repair had failed, 
noting again that they had been produced 11 months later in any case.
Ms A asked that an ombudsman review her case, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have purchased goods or services using a 
credit card to claim against their credit card provider in respect of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services, so long as certain technical 
conditions are met.
In this case Amex has argued that one of the technical conditions hasnt been met, because 
Ms A paid T via P instead of directly. This technical condition is known as the debtor-
creditor-supplier, or DCS, agreement. Our investigator commented on this in his follow-up 
assessment. He said that following investigation with P, he thought it most likely P had acted 
simply to facilitate the payment to T and this did not cause the DCS agreement to be invalid.
I havent found it necessary to go into great detail on this point as, for essentially the same 
reasons as our investigator, I think there are other reasons why it wasnt unreasonable of 
Amex to decline Ms As section 75 claim. However, in principle my view is that the use of a 
payment intermediary like P does not mean that a valid DCS agreement will not exist. For a 
valid DCS agreement to exist a payment needs to have been made under pre-existing 
arrangements between the creditor (Amex) and the supplier (T), or in contemplation of future 
arrangements. Having considered the relevant case law, I think such arrangements can be 
said to exist even when payment is made via a third party like P.
However, assuming there is a valid DCS agreement, Ms A still needs to have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against T, for her to be able to make a valid 
section 75 claim against Amex. Its not been argued that T made a misrepresentation, so I 
have focused my analysis on the question of whether there was a breach of contract by T. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to uphold its terms. These 
terms can be expressly written into the contract, or they may be treated as being included in 
the contract due to the effect of legislation (sometimes referred to as implied terms). 
When a consumer purchases goods from a trader, as here, there are certain terms implied 
into the contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). One such term is that the goods 
will be satisfactory quality. If the goods are not satisfactory quality then a breach of contract 
will have occurred and the consumer has certain rights which are also outlined in the CRA. If 
the problems with the goods are notified to the trader more than 30 days after they have been delivered, then the consumer is entitled to a repair or a replacement.1 If this fails to 
remedy the breach of contract, or cannot be done in a reasonable time or without 
unreasonable inconvenience to the consumer, then the consumer has other rights including 
the right to reject the goods and receive a refund. 
Ms As central argument is that the bouncy castle was defective and remained defective 
after T attempted to repair it, and so she seeks to reject the goods and receive a refund.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that, when the bouncy castle was delivered to Ms A, it had a 
leak which meant it would not inflate. Considering the purpose of a bouncy castle, I dont 
think a bouncy castle which cannot be inflated due to a leak can be said to be satisfactory 
quality. A breach of contract therefore did occur, but the key question in this case is whether 
or not T remedied the breach of contract. If it did, then there would no longer be a claim 
which Ms A would be able to bring against Amex under section 75 of the CCA.
When Ms A reported the failure to inflate to T, she asked for the bouncy castle to be 
replaced. T said that it would take the item back at its own expense and arrange a repair. It 
returned the bouncy castle to Ms A, claiming to have repaired it, and then Ms A reported 
ongoing issues about a week later. Specifically, Ms A said: It worked but unfortunately there 
is still a leak somewhere. It kept going floppy. T asked for a video of the problem, but Ms A 
only sent video evidence 11 months later. It doesnt appear T responded to her after this 
point. 
Our investigator highlighted the fact that evidence which was not produced at the relevant 
time, and was in fact generated much later, can lack persuasive power. As more time 
passes from when the bouncy castle was returned to Ms A, the likelihood that any problem 
with it could have been caused by something other than a failed repair by T increases. And 
as those alternative possibilities increase, the persuasiveness of the evidence at showing 
that the problems were down to a defect in the bouncy castle decreases. 
However, I think it is also important to consider what the evidence actually shows. Ms A sent 
the videos to our investigator. Both videos are taken from a few paces away and show 
children on the inflated bouncy castle. In one video the children are jumping up and down on 
the main part of the castle, and in the other video, one child is clinging on to a part of the 
upper section which looks like a crossbeam, which is sagging or bowing under their weight. 
To me, the videos do not show any obvious defect with the bouncy castle, or that it is not 
functioning as it is expected to. It does appear to be less substantial and rigid than the kind 
of bouncy castle one might hire for an event, but it is clearly inflated and being used for its 
intended purpose. Indeed, I note the manufacturer describes its bouncy castles as domestic 
inflatables which wont feel as solid as hired bouncy castles and that areas of low air 
volume such as beamswill feel softer and easy tosquash.
Taking into account all the evidence which has been provided in this case, I think it indicates 
T successfully repaired the bouncy castle, and in doing so remedied its initial breach of 
contract. This means Ms A no longer had a claim for breach of contract which she could 
bring to Amex under section 75 of the CCA. It follows that I conclude Amex did not treat 
Ms A unfairly or reasonably in declining her claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint.
1 If one of the options to repair or replace the goods is disproportionately more expensive to the trader 
than the other, then the law says the consumer cannot insist on the disproportionate option. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman