DRN-3115119
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly refused to 
meet a claim he made for items lost when he was moving home.
What happened
Mr H moved home in July 2020. Two weeks later he received a list of items left at the 
property from his landlords agents. Thats part of the process of giving up most rented 
properties. He then realised hed left bags and boxes of both valuable and sentimental 
personal items behind by mistake. He said hed assumed up to that point that the items had 
been placed in the loft of his new home. Unfortunately the landlord, thinking the items 
werent wanted, had donated them to a charity. 
Mr H contacted Lloyds to make a claim on his home insurance. Lloyds considered the claim, 
but said Mr H wasnt covered for this sort of loss as he only had cover for his personal 
belongings whilst they were in his home  and these items had been left in a home he no 
longer lived in. It said if hed had cover for belongings away from home his claim might have 
succeeded  but unfortunately he didnt.
Mr H was unhappy about this and complained, but Lloyds didnt change its mind.
We were asked to review the complaint. Our investigator looked at the terms and conditions 
of Mr Hs policy and agreed with Lloyds. He didnt think Mr H had the level of cover that 
would enable his claim to be met  and considered both the cover available whilst Mr H was 
moving and for whilst his possessions were temporarily away from home.
He thought the cover during removals didnt apply as that required Mr H to have used 
professional removers  and he hadnt bought cover for items away from home. Nor had he 
bought the only other cover that might have applied  which would cover accidental loss or 
damage.
Mr H doesnt think thats fair so Ive been asked to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill 
explain how Ive reached this decision.
No insurer provides a policy that covers all eventualities. Insurers limit the risk they are 
prepared to take by covering what are known as insurance events  and those events are 
defined in the policy terms and conditions.
Most policies come with some events included as standard  such as cover for possessions 
whilst theyre in the home  and optional extras (for which you pay an extra premium) such 
as cover for possessions when theyre taken out of the home.
Ive read the schedule of cover Mr H had at the time and the relevant policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr H bought only standard cover, and I think this was clear on the paperwork he received. 
That means the belongings he lost were only covered for accidental loss or damage whilst in 
his home. I think its clear that home in this case was the property he moved out of in July 
2020, as thats the address he had on his schedule. Unfortunately, by the time Mr H realised 
the items were missing, he hadnt lived in his old home for a couple of weeks. So I think 
Lloyds fairly applied the terms conditions here.
There is a further cover available to Mr H on a standard policy  which is that they were lost 
or damaged whilst being moved to his new home. For that cover to apply, Mr H had to be 
using a professional removals firm. Mr H did say at one point that he had used professional 
movers  so we asked him to provide details of the contract. Unfortunately, despite several 
reminders, no details have been received. And Ive also noted that Mr H said the removers 
were taking care of heavy items  so they may well not have been responsible for moving 
the boxes/bags of personal items anyway. Without some evidence that a firm of professional 
removers was involved, I cant ask Lloyds to consider the claim under this part of his policy. 
Im sure that if Mr H can give Lloyds some evidence it will re-consider the claim.
Mr H might have been able to claim the items were temporarily removed from his new 
home. But I havent seen any evidence that he bought this type of cover for either his old or 
new property. So again I cant say Lloyds has unfairly refused to meet the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman