DRN-3245867
The complaint
Mr T complains about administrative issues he experienced in connection with his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
What happened
In 2009, Mr T transferred the value of his safeguarded benefit in his former employers 
defined benefits pension scheme to a SIPP provided by HSBC. The money held in the SIPP 
was invested in HSBCs Premier Discretionary Management Service (PDMS). Mr T was 
content with the service provided by HSBC for the first several years. 
HSBC migrated its PDMS to a new platform called Premier Investment Management Service 
(PIMS). Following the platform migration, Mr T started to experience administrative issues. 
This led to him making several complaints to HSBC including this one. Under this complaint, 
Mr T complained about the following in connection with his SIPP:
he couldnt access information online between May and August 2020; and
HSBC failed to send him printed quarterly statements for the first three quarters of 
2020. When he chased this, HSBC provided electronic versions that he said 
contained errors and omissions which meant they couldnt be relied upon. 
Mr T told HSBC that these issues meant he had difficulty understanding what was 
happening with his SIPP and impacted his ability to file accurate tax returns. He confirmed 
that he received a printed statement for the fourth quarter of 2020 in early 2021.
Across the several complaints including this one, HSBC explained to Mr T that the issues 
complained about were largely due to the platform migration. This included incorrectly 
marking his account to confirm that he should be sent paperless statements. HSBC 
apologised for its errors and paid Mr T separate payments of compensation across all his 
complaints which totalled over £1,500. It also offered to waive its transfer fee of £300 
(including VAT) should he remain unhappy with HSBCs service and decide to transfer the 
value of his SIPP to an alternative provider.
Although online access was restored, Mr T said that HSBC still hadnt sent him printed 
quarterly statements for the first three quarters of 2020. So he referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the 
issues complained about was a continuation of the same ongoing administrative issues. He 
concluded Mr T hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the issues and that the level of 
compensation HSBC had already paid him was generous in the circumstances and 
adequately covered the compensation that he wouldve recommended in relation to the 
specific issues he considered under this complaint. He also noted that HSBC had offered to 
waive its transfer fee should Mr T remain unhappy with HSBCs service and decide to 
transfer the value of his SIPP to an alternative provider. As such, our investigator said that 
he wouldnt be asking HSBC to do anything further.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional comments. He said he 
was still having issues. He confirmed that printed quarterly statements for 2021 had been 
received but these were late and contained errors. He said that the compensation hed 
received in connection with other administrative issues was irrelevant and shouldnt be taken 
into account in deciding this complaint. Rather, he thought that this complaint should be 
considered on its own merits. He also said that HSBCs offer to waive the transfer fee was 
significantly less than the financial advice fee hed need to pay to facilitate a transfer away 
which had been quoted as ranging from £6,000 to £12,000. He said that he never alleged 
that the administrative issues which led to this complaint had caused him to suffer a financial 
loss, so he was unsure why our investigator had mentioned this. He emphasised that this 
complaint specifically concerns the issues relating to online access and HSBCs failure to 
send him printed quarterly statements for the first three quarters of 2020. He confirmed that 
during September 2021, which was after our investigators assessment, HSBC had 
unexpectedly sent him a large package containing printed quarterly statements for all of 
2020 and the first half of 2021.
Our investigator considered the additional comments. He thought that Mr Ts comments 
about the quarterly statements for 2021 and the cost of obtaining financial advice amounted 
to new complaint points which hadnt previously been considered by HSBC. So he told 
HSBC about Mr Ts new complaint points.
HSBC responded that, contrary to Mr Ts allegation, it had sent him timely and accurate 
quarterly statements for 2021 and that there wasnt anything on its systems to suggest there 
was a problem with this. And it said that it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of  Mr T 
obtaining financial because it was satisfied it already paid him generous compensation in 
addition to waiving its transfer fee. It was agreed between our investigator and HSBC that 
the new complaint points raised by Mr T would be considered under a separate complaint.
Since this complaint couldnt be resolved to his satisfaction, its been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence afresh 
including Mr Ts comments in response to our investigators assessment.
Scope of this complaint
Over the past few years Mr T has made several complaints about HSBC concerning 
administrative issues relating to his SIPP. Its clear that Mr Ts relationship with HSBC has 
broken down after the various administrative issues hes experienced such that he told our 
investigator that he was contemplating transferring the value of his SIPP to an alternative 
provider.I want to make it clear which issues Im deciding under this complaint. On our complaint 
form, Mr T complained that between May and August 2000 he couldnt access information 
online about his SIPP. And that HSBC failed to send him printed quarterly statements for the 
first three quarters of 2020. When he chased this, HSBC provided electronic versions that he 
said contained errors and omissions which meant they couldnt be relied upon. I can see that 
this was a continuation of the same problem that started in the last quarter in 2019 when he 
also didnt receive a printed quarterly statement. This was caused by the same platform 
migration issue which meant his account was incorrectly marked to confirm that paperless 
statements should be sent. Therefore, under this final decision, I only intend to decide upon 
these issues. I wont be considering any other issues or the new complaint points Mr T made 
about quarterly statements for 2021 and the cost of obtaining financial advice, since its my 
understanding that these were to be dealt with under a separate complaint.
My findings
Having considered the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr T has confirmed that the administrative issues hes complained about didnt cause 
him to suffer a financial loss, so I havent considered this in deciding this complaint;
Mr T complained that between May and August 2020 he couldnt access information 
online about his SIPP. This was resolved in August 2020. In its final response letter 
of 27 August 2020, HSBC explained that the temporary access issue was caused by 
the platform migration but it had given Mr T prior notice of this in writing. It apologised 
for the inconvenience caused.
Mr T complained that HSBC didnt send him printed quarterly statements for the first 
three quarters of 2020. He also didnt receive a statement for the last quarter of 2019. 
HSBCs final response letters of 28 January and 27 August 2020 dealt with the 
quarterly statements issue. HSBC stated that it didnt send Mr T those printed 
statements because his account was incorrectly marked to confirm that paperless 
statements should be sent. It apologised. In recognition of this, in its final response 
letter of 28 January 2020, HSBC increased its previous compensation offer of £500 
(relating to other issues) to £1,000. So it effectively offered Mr T £500 for not sending 
him the statement for the last quarter of 2019 (the timing of the final response letter 
means that it didnt deal with the 2020 statements). I think that was a generous offer.            
Mr T accepted it. Im satisfied that the issue complained about relating to the 2020 
quarterly statements is a continuation of the of the same problem that started in the 
last quarter in 2019  so I think its fair that I consider the £500 offered in determining 
any compensation that might be due for the 2020 quarterly statements. Mr T has 
since confirmed that in September 2021, HSBC unexpectedly sent him a large 
package containing printed quarterly statements for all of 2020 and the first half of 
2021. So hes now in possession of the quarterly statements for 2020. Ive taken this 
into account. Overall, I think HSBC paid adequate compensation of £500 for the 
statement issues and adequately covers any compensation I wouldve awarded in 
respect of this;
Mr T said that the electronic statements provided by HSBC contained errors. But 
from my reading of the situation, it seems that the statements didnt include or 
present information in the way Mr T wanted. And, ultimately, he received the printed 
statements he wanted in September 2021 (after HSBC apologised and paid him 
£500 compensation in respect of this);Mr T said that by not receiving the quarterly statements for the first three quarters of 
2020 it impacted his ability to file accurate tax returns. Im not convinced by this. He 
confirmed that he received the statements in September 2021. Notwithstanding this 
point, he had access to other information, such as the electronic statements and 
bank statements to show any pension income received, that wouldve enabled him to 
submit accurate tax returns; and
Overall, I consider that HSBCs apology for the online access issue, payment of £500 
compensation for the quarterly statement issue and offer to waive its transfer fee of 
£300 (including VAT) was a fair and reasonable response to those issues. I 
sympathise with Mr T about the issues hes described, but I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require HSBC to pay him any 
additional compensation or to take any other action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman