DRN-3334069
The complaint
Mr P complains about the incorrect maturity estimate provided by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited, in relation to his With-Profits Endowment Policy.  
Mr P says that the inaccurate estimates provided by Aviva led him to believe that hed 
receive approximately £40,000 and he used this information to plan his finances leading into 
retirement. 
The actual sum Mr P received was closer to £10,000 which came as a terrible shock. Hed 
like Aviva to pay an amount closer to what he thought he would get.  
What happened
In 1960 Mr Ps father took out a non-profit endowment plan  ending in policy number 457  
which was due to mature in 1981. I understand that Mr Ps father received the maturity sum 
in due course. 
It seems that Mr P then took out a With-Profits Endowment Plan  ending in policy number 
87T  with a scheduled start date in 1981. 
Although Mr P has no clear recollection of doing this  he only has a vague recollection of 
his father telling him that its time for him to take over payments  theres evidence that 
amendments to the schedule were agreed by Mr P. From then onwards, I understand that 
Mr P contributed £4 a month and the plan was subject to bonuses. 
In May 2016, Mr P received correspondence from Aviva outlining the projected benefits, as 
of 28 October 2020, which is the date of maturity. The letter explained that Aviva couldnt 
predict what the policy would be worth at maturity, however it went on to provide calculations 
for potential growth, which included a range in value between £40,000 - £42,000, and 
current surrender value of £7,101. 
In October 2019, Mr P called Aviva for an update on the maturity figures, but this apparently 
couldnt be given so close to the maturity date so instead Aviva re-issued the May 2016 
letter. 
In due course, Mr P received a quarter of what he thought he was going to receive and was 
extremely upset by it. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Re-issuing the May 2016 letter in October 2019 wouldve compounded Mr Ps 
expectation that he was getting around £40,000. 
He used this information to plan his future finances:
oHe decided not to take out a lump sum from his occupational pension. 
oHe budgeted to replace his car and personal IT system outright, using the 
lump sum to reduce his monthly expenses.  
Aviva accepts that during the October 2019 call it had an opportunity to give Mr P 
better information, unfortunately the call recording isnt available  but its likely that 
Mr P was left believing the 2016 information was accurate and that hed receive a lot 
more money than he did. 
Because theres no dispute that Aviva made a mistake. The key issue to consider is 
redress. 
Given how redress is considered and worked out, Mr P isnt entitled to receive the 
sum he thought hed get. 
If there was no mistake by the business, Mr P would be paid out the correct 
surrender value. In other words, hed be entitled to receive the maturity value and not 
the estimated figure. 
Avivas letters were caveated with warnings that the value wasnt guaranteed, and 
that the value of the policy could go up or down. Mr P was also sent annual bonus 
statements, which showed the surrender value for the plan from the previous year, 
which wouldve allowed him to track the performance. Furthermore, with £4 a month 
contribution, the £40,000 appeared high.
The above notwithstanding, the final maturity figure wouldve been a complete shock 
to Mr P. Avivas letters confused matters by showing that the start of the policy was 
1960 which was a legacy date from the parent policy, but unhelpfully quoted to Mr P. 
Aviva should pay Mr P £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered. The £250 offered by Aviva is inadequate and doesnt properly reflect the 
shock Mr P experienced when he was told he wouldnt receive the £40,000. Aviva 
also missed opportunities to set the record straight. 
Aviva disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
The May 2016 correspondence was a one-off event. Prior to this, Mr P had been 
receiving regular statements from 2010 to 2015 which confirmed the bonuses added 
to the policy, and also made clear that the guaranteed maturity value might be 
around £5,000.  
Mr P received further statements from October 2016 to October 2018 that again 
confirmed the minimum guaranteed maturity amount would be around £5,000.   
Its original decision to uphold the complaint is correct but its not looking to pay Mr P 
any more than the £250 compensation offered.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The award of £600 is fair. 
The sum of £250 is consistent with some inconvenience. But based on what Mr P 
says, shes satisfied that he suffered a considerable level of distress and 
inconvenience, for which theres been a lasting level of upset.  
Mr P made decisions regarding his retirement and expenses based on the figure that 
he was led to believe, more than once, he would receive.  
Whist Mr P received regular statements, these werent referred to in the call or the 
May 2016 correspondence that was also reissued in 2019. 
The headers on Avivas communication with Mr P also suggested the start date was 
1960, giving him the impression that the policy started from then.  
Mr P was approaching retirement age, and he made decisions focusing on his 
retirement. 
The information from Aviva was important in helping him to decide whether he should 
take a lump sum payment from his pension and upgrade/improve certain of his facilities. 
Mr P had to re-evaluate his plan for retirement. These issues have had a lasting 
impact on him and will continue to impact him for some time.   
Mr P is disappointed with the amount of compensation recommended by the investigator. He 
explained that hes around £20,000 less cash in hand than what Aviva led him to believe. At 
60 years of age hes not able to take out loans for capital expenditure.
 
Mr P also said that Aviva deliberately didnt disclose that it had made a mistake in 2016, 
allowing him to believe that it was correct. The impact of its error has been significant. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Aviva says, Im not persuaded 
that it behaved reasonably. 
Because Aviva has already upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is 
redress. Having done so, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think £600 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, as recommended by the investigator, is broadly 
fair and reasonable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Aviva says, Im broadly satisfied 
that Mr P was (mistakenly) led to believe that hed receive a much higher sum  roughly four 
times as much  than he did. 
Im aware that this started with the (misleading) May 2016 correspondence, but reinforced in 
October 2019, when Mr P called Aviva to clarify what his entitlements might be. I note Aviva 
re-sent a copy of the May 2016 correspondence, thereby compounding and reinforcing Mr 
Ps genuine (but mistaken) belief that he was entitled to significantly more money than he 
was. 
I acknowledge that Mr P wasnt entitled to receive £40,000 upon maturity, or any figure close 
to that amount. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask the business to simply 
pay-out this sum.  
The unfortunate and aggravating feature here is that Aviva had an opportunity to set the 
record straight but didnt, and by failing to do so gave credibility to Mr Ps (mistaken) belief, 
that could otherwise have been dismissed as an error in light of the other information. 
Instead, by re-issuing the May 2016 correspondence in response to Mr Ps 2019 queries and 
by not making any reference to the previous annual statements, I think Aviva undermined 
the value and point of these statements. In other words, I think its likely that Mr P thought 
the 2016 correspondence that was provided again  in response to his queries in 2019  
superseded any statements he may have received up to that point. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think Avivas culpability is higher than its willing to 
accept. This case isnt an example of where a customer has independently assumed facts 
and gone on a frolic of his own that are wholly unconnected to anything said or done by a 
business.     
Im aware that based on the re-issued 2016 correspondence, Mr P planned his finances 
leading into his retirement. Whilst he didnt go out and irresponsibly spend money that he 
didnt have, he decided not to take out a lump sum from his occupational pension. He also 
budgeted to replace his car and personal IT system outright, using the lump sum to reduce 
his monthly expenses. 
I understand that based on the money he eventually received none of these plans can come 
to fruition and will take some time to work around and figure out. In the circumstances I think 
the £250 compensation offered by Aviva is wholly inadequate and instead it should pay Mr P 
£600 compensation to mark the true extent of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im also mindful that the final figure and maturity value  a quarter of what Mr P thought he 
might get  will have come as a huge shock and disappointment to him. Evidently, hed 
planned his finances based on misleading and/or unclear information provided by the 
business and will probably need to re-think his retirement plans. 
I appreciate Mr P will be unhappy that Ive not awarded more compensation. I realise my 
decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to 
require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give Mr P what he wants. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr P £600 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr P redress as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman