DRN-1322481
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment from their joint account on 
12 July 2019. They say Santander didnt contact them to go through security so that the 
payment could have been released earlier. 
What happened
Mrs B made a transfer of around £2,400 from her Santander joint account with Mr B. The 
payment was to her account with another provider in the morning of 12 July 2019. Shed 
made a transfer to that same account earlier that day, and she says that account had been 
set up as an account payee for some time.
The payment of around £2,400 didnt go through and in the afternoon on the same day, Mrs 
B contacted Santander about the payment. Mrs B was taken through security and the 
payment cleared around 8pm the same day and the block on the account removed.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander about how the payment was handled. Santander 
didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint, it said the payment was subject to a fraud check. It says 
Santanders automated message tried to contact her about the payment, but it says the 
system returned unacceptable results and so it had to be referred to a colleague to call Mrs 
B.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs B referred her complaint to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator thought that Santander had acted 
reasonably, as its terms and conditions allow Santander to block payments to carry out fraud 
checks. Mr and Mrs B disagreed saying she remained unhappy that she wasnt contacted 
when Santander had concerns about the payment, and had she not contacted Santander the 
block could have remained on the account for a longer time. 
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me  an ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has provided its system notes and from what I can see, Santanders system 
received a payment request of over £2,400 around 7.48am from Mr and Mrs Bs account on 
12 July 2019. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs B had transferred money into an account that was set up as a 
payee on her Santander account. And I can understand why she was frustrated with the 
payment being blocked especially as shed sent a payment into the same account on the 
same day. But Santander as a financial service provider has a duty to ensure it carries out appropriate checks on payments, and any payment can be subject to further checks. And 
this is contained within its term and conditions.
Santanders system shows that the automated system tried to contact Mr and Mrs B about 
the blocked payment but returned a sim change and so the account was blocked. Mrs B 
says they didnt have a sim change and Santander didnt contact them when it should have 
done.
I appreciate Mrs Bs point and while it isnt clear why the automated message returned a sim 
change, I dont think it was unreasonable for the Santander to err on the side of caution and 
allow an automatic block on the account pending when a Santander colleague could confirm 
the payment details. Mrs B says that had she not contacted Santander then its unlikely it 
would have contacted her. 
But as Mrs B contacted Santander on the afternoon of 12 July 2019, I cant say what would 
have happened had she not contacted Santander. I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Santander wouldnt have contacted Mr and Mrs B to verify the payment. 
Mrs B has said when her payments have been subject to checks in the past, she was 
contacted by Santander but this didnt happen on this occasion. But Santander has provided 
evidence to show why Mr and Mrs B werent contacted automatically at the time the payment 
was stopped. And although by the time Mrs B called Santander, she hadnt received a call 
from Santander, thats not enough for me to say Santander wouldnt have contacted her. 
Mr and Mrs B also say the waiting times on the phone when they contacted Santander 
needs to be addressed. Mrs B says it around 45 minutes to complete the call, and she was 
at work at the time. Santander has said its agents attempt to answer calls as soon as 
possible but it cant control the call volumes. I dont find this unreasonable  as call volumes 
may increase at any time during the day. Further, it's not the role of this service to give a 
business direction on how they make their personnel decisions.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling but I have to base my decision on what 
actually happened and not what could have happened. In this case, the payment was 
completed on the same day. 
While I appreciate the inconvenience Mr and Mrs B went through by having to call 
Santander, that on its own isnt enough for me to say Santander had done something wrong. 
Santander was acting within its duty to carry out fraud checks and the automated system 
tried to contact Mr and Mrs B to query the payment but returned a sim change. And as the 
payment was released within the same day, I cant say that Santander acted unfairly.
So overall, I dont think Santander has acted unreasonably here, and I wont be asking it to 
do anymore. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B, but I hope my 
explanation goes some way in helping them understand why Ive reached my conclusions.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman