DRN-1028269
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a personal loan in 2004. Mr O says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think Santander 
gave Mr O clear enough information about the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any condition Mr O already had when the policy 
started. And Im not satisfied that Mr O was made sufficiently aware of this term during 
the sale.
Santander has said that Mr Os condition and the exclusion wouldve been discussed with 
him during the sale. And its said he wouldve been given documents which included the 
exclusion as well. But I havent seen any further evidence that Mr Os condition or the 
exclusion were discussed with him. And, while the exclusion is in the policy document 
and the flyer about the loan, I dont think that it was prominent enough in either to make 
Mr O sufficiently aware of it. So I dont think the exclusion was made clear to Mr O.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr O because hes told us that he was suffering from a 
medical condition at the time of the sale. Hes told us he was diagnosed with the 
condition when he was very young and hes been consistent about it throughout his 
complaint. So I think its likely he did have this condition at the sale of the policy.
Based on what Mr O has told us, I dont think hed have taken the policy if it had been made 
clear to him that any time off work as a result of his existing condition wouldnt have been 
covered by it. So I think hes lost out as a result of Santander not making the exclusion 
clear to him.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr O in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
- Pay Mr O the amount he paid each month for the PPI
- Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Alan Millward
 
Ombudsman