DRN-3903170
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Salary Finance Loan Limited, trading as
Salary Finance, surrounding his application for a personal loan.
What happened
Mr B applied to Salary Finance for a personal loan of £8,000. His application was accepted
with an interest rate of 9.9%, but when Mr B tried to accept the loan, he was told by Salary
Finance that there was a technical issue which meant the loan couldnt be completed.
Mr B chased Salary Finance on several occasions about the loan, eventually being told that
because the date the loan offer was valid until had passed before the technical issue had
been resolved, that he would have to apply for the loan again. Mr B did apply for the loan
again, and his application was again approved, but this time with the much higher interest
rate of 19.9%. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Salary Finance looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged there hadnt been a change
in Mr Bs circumstances between the two applications that should merit the higher interest
rate, so they agreed to offer Mr B the loan on the original terms. Salary Finance also offered
to pay £30 to Mr B as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr B
wasnt satisfied with Salary Finances offer, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the £30 compensation offer didnt
fairly compensate Mr B for the upset and inconvenience hed incurred here, so they
recommended that Salary Finance pay Mr B an increased amount of £100 compensation.
The recommendation put forwards by our investigator was accepted by Mr B. However,
despite repeated requests from our investigator, Salary Finance didnt accept or reject the
offer themselves. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 December 2022 as follows:
Where a business accepts that the events that led to a complaint werent fair, it would 
be expected by this service that the business would take the corrective action 
needed to put the complainant into the position they should fairly be in, and that they 
would pay compensation to the complainant  if appropriate  for any trouble or 
upset they may have incurred.
In this instance, Salary Finance have accepted that Mr B shouldnt have been denied 
access to the loan he applied for on the terms that were originally agreed, and 
theyve already taken corrective steps to issue Mr B with the loan at the originally 
agreed interest rate of 9.9%.
However, its clear to me that Mr B was also upset and inconvenienced by what 
happened here, not only by having to chase Salary Finance for the acceptance of the 
initial loan offer, but also by then being told he would have to reapply, through no 
fault of his own, and by receiving a subsequent loan offer on less favourable terms 
than hed originally been given.
 
Salary Finance initially offered Mr B £30 compensation in recognition of the trouble 
and upset hed incurred. And our investigator recommended that Salary Finance 
should increase the amount of compensation payable to £100. However, upon 
consideration of the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont feel that the £100 as 
recommended by our investigator does provide a fair level of financial compensation 
to Mr B for the obvious frustration and distress that hes experienced here.
As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour and instructing 
Salary Finance to pay an increased compensation amount of £300, which I feel more 
fairly compensates Mr B for what happened here.
In arriving at this increased compensation amount Ive considered the time and effort 
Mr B has had to expend trying to resolve this issue, as well as the anxiety and upset 
Im satisfied Mr B has experienced, both as a result of Salary Finances technical 
issues in regard to the first loan offer and also in regard to his receiving a second 
loan offer at a significantly less favourable rate than was originally the case.
Both Mr B and Salary Finance have confirmed that they accept my provisional decision. As 
such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the basis 
outlined above, and I confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Salary Finance must pay compensation totalling £300 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Salary Finance Loan Limited, trading 
as Salary Finance, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman