DRN-2774236
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P have complained that W Todd & Son Limiteds (WTS) actions led
to their commercial vehicle policy being cancelled without notice and P paying too much for
the time theyd been on cover. 
Mr F, a director of P, has complained on Ps behalf.  
What happened
Mr F bought a policy for P through WTS, a broker, on 22 May 2019. He bought a second 
policy for P on 31 May 2019. The insurer asked for information about Ps no claims discount 
(NCD) which Mr F had some difficulty getting from Ps previous broker. Because it hadnt 
received this information, the insurer sent P a letter saying the policy would be cancelled 
with seven days notice. Mr F said WTS told them to ignore any cancellation letters as the 
problem had been resolved.
Mr F provided some information to WTS who forwarded it to the insurer. The insurer
extended the timescale, but after not receiving the further information they required, the
insurer sent Mr F another letter telling him the policy would be cancelled on 5 July 2019.
In August 2019 Mr F called WTS to add some other vehicles to Ps policy. WTS told him that
the insurer had cancelled Ps policy in July 2019. Mr F said at this point he had vehicles
delivering across Europe which had to be parked up and in some cases he had to fly the
drivers home for other commitments. He was also unhappy to find Ps drivers had been
driving uninsured for a few weeks.
Mr F complained about WTS. He said it had stopped communicating with him and this had
led to the policy being cancelled, causing P a financial loss. He was also unhappy with the 
amount P had been charged. He said P paid £17,291.70 and thought they should receive a
refund of £10,567.54.
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought that
WTS had stopped communicating with Mr F and that had led to him not knowing that his 
policy would be cancelled. He thought that due to the problems WTS had caused, it was fair 
and reasonable that P should only pay pro rata for the time he had the policy. He 
recommended WTS refund P £10,542.96, plus interest. He also asked WTS to pay P £500 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
WTS didnt agree. It said P had been charged short term rates by the insurer, so it wasnt fair
for it to have to refund P on a pro rata basis. It said Mr F hadnt been able to provide the
information the insurer required and had given incorrect information when buying the policy.
So, it didnt think it was at fault for the policy being cancelled. It asked for an ombudsmans
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 December 2020. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline in their answer to Ps complaint. There doesnt
seem to be a dispute about the sequence of events, so Im not going to repeat it here.
Instead Im going to focus on whether WTS caused P a loss.
I can see that Mr F had some difficulty obtaining the information he needed from his previous
broker to provide to the insurer. On 20 June 2019 the insurer contacted WTS to say the
information Mr F had provided wasnt suitable for the type of policy hed taken out and in
order to continue with the policy it would require an additional premium of over £46,000. The
insurer suggested that P might like to cancel the policy instead. WTS replied to say that it
would put that to P and see what they said. WTS hasnt provided me with any record of any
further discussions in relation to this, although I have seen an email dated 24 June 2019
where WTS asked P for a number of other things.
The insurer sent notification to WTS that it would be cancelling Ps policy from 5 July 2019. I
cant see that WTS made any contact with P to notify them of this and I think it should have
done, given that all other administration had been issued via WTS. I can see that the insurer
also wrote to P to say the policy was being cancelled but Mr F said he contacted WTS who
told him not to worry about the cancellation letters. WTS hasnt provided any phone calls
between it and Mr F to show the discussion that took place, and on balance Im persuaded
by what Mr F has said. I think its likely Mr F would have taken action after receiving this
letter and he clearly didnt know his policy had been cancelled, as he called WTS in August
to add more vehicles to his policy. He also said he had no reason to think the policy had
been cancelled as his direct debit was processed as usual and other cancellation letters hed
received had been rescinded following discussions with WTS. So, I dont think WTS did
enough to let Mr F know the policy had been cancelled.
It seems from the information given by the insurer in the email of 20 June 2019, that Mr F
wouldnt have been able to provide the information, so the policy would always have been
cancelled. However, I think its likely, when given the option of paying the additional premium
Mr F would have chosen to cancel the policy himself, rather than waiting for it to be
cancelled.
This means that, while the policy would have most likely been cancelled, P wouldnt have a
record of cancellation against it. A cancellation can often increase the amount a policyholder
needs to pay for a policy. And if thats happened here, I think WTS should either speak to
the insurer to ask if they will change the way the cancellation is recorded or compensate P if
the insurer wont amend it. Id ask WTS to let me know if the insurer will change the
cancellation to show as being cancelled by P. If its unable to do so, Id ask Mr F to provide
evidence from his new insurer to indicate the effect of declaring a cancellation on the cost of
a new policy.
WTS also said that Mr F didnt make a fair presentation of the risk provided when buying his
policy. While he wasnt able to provide the information the insurer needed, I havent seen
enough to persuade me Mr F gave WTS incorrect information when he bought the policy. I
say this because I havent seen any record of the conversation from the sale, such as a
Demands and Needs statement or other fact-finding document.
As it seems the policy would always have been cancelled, Ive looked at whether the amount
WTS has charged P was fair. WTS has been very unclear in explaining what P has been
charged. From what I can see the total cost payable when P bought the two policies was
£66,106.21. This includes the non-refundable transaction charges applied by the credit
provider. The total cost of the premium paid to the insurer was £60,806.62. The insurer
refunded a total of £54,057.89, and confirmed it was on a pro rata basis. So, although WTSsaid short-term rates were charged by the insurer, Im more persuaded by the insurers
evidence that the refund was calculated on a pro rata basis. This breakdown shows the
costs charged by all the businesses involved with the policy, so when working out what P
should have paid its not simply a case of dividing the overall premium cost by the number of
days on risk.
The insurer took £6,748.73 in premium. P has been charged £5,299.59 by the finance
company in fees and WTS appears to have taken £4,826.60 in commission. P was also
charged a £50 admin fee and paid £250 as a deposit. I cant comment on whether the
amount taken by the insurer or the finance company is fair, as those are separate
companies. And, as I think the policy would always have been cancelled, either by Mr F or
the insurer, I dont think WTS was responsible for causing P a financial loss in the fees hes
been charged by other companies, because he would always have had to pay them when
the policy was cancelled.
I dont however, think its fair that P had to pay WTS commission in this particular case. I
say that because WTS didnt contact Mr F either to let him know the insurer had applied an
additional premium and give him the option of cancelling the policy or to let him know the
policy had been cancelled. I dont think its fair that P has to pay commission when it didnt
receive the service it should have done. I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for
WTS to refund P the £4,826.60 it deducted from the premium refund as commission. Due to
the time Ps been without that money, WTS should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per
year, calculated from the date it refunded the premium to the date it makes payment.
The account ledger Ive seen also shows Ps account to be in credit by £416.79. I havent
seen any justification for WTS keeping this. So, if WTS hasnt already refunded this amount
to P, I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund this money, plus interest at a rate
of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date it refunded the premium to the date it makes
payment.
I accept that having to park up a number of vehicles at a moments notice would have
caused P inconvenience. I agree with our investigator that £500 is a fair and reasonable
amount to compensate for this. Im not going to make any additional award for financial loss
for this, as I havent seen enough evidence of the costs involved in getting the drivers home
at short notice. 
Mr F, on behalf of P, accepted the provisional decision, as he felt the main issue was 
removing the cancellation from his record. 
WTS didnt agree. In summary it said:
It would refund the outstanding balance account of £416.79.
It didnt agree to refund the commission as P had agreed to the terms and
conditions and it had undertaken a large amount of work.
The policy was cancelled on a pro rata basis and no additional fees added  this 
could be amended now if required.
It was unsure if a record of cancellation exists.
It was ultimately Ps fault the policy was cancelled as they couldnt provide the
required information to the insurer.
P werent charged anything extra for having a cancelled policy as WTS was able to 
direct them to another insurer.
P didnt make a fair presentation of the risk when buying the policy and thats why the 
policy cancelled.
As I didnt see anything in the emails from WTS confirming whether or not the insurer wouldamend how the cancellation was recorded, I contacted the insurer through our investigator. 
The insurer didnt agree to changing how the cancellation is recorded and said if they had 
recorded the policy as being cancelled by P then they would have charged short-term rates, 
on both the premium P had been charged and the additional premium it would have charged 
for the policy to continue.
Due to the limited information available about what happened at the point of the sale, I 
offered to speak with both P and WTS to get their verbal testimony about the sale. WTS 
didnt take up this offer. P, in summary, felt that WTS had sold them an unsuitable policy. 
WTS, in its emails, set out that that P didnt make a fair presentation of risk and the only 
reason the policy was cancelled was because P wasnt able to supply the evidence to 
support the information theyd given about their NCD.
As Id received further information, I sent an email to both WTS and P on 29 March 2021 via 
our investigator. In that email I said (names have been redacted for the purpose of this 
decision):
WTS hasnt provided any evidence of the sales call or any demands and needs (or other fact
find). This is something Id normally expect to be provided with to show the questions that 
were asked when selling a policy and the answers given by the insured. What I have seen 
however, is a copy of the quotation WTS sent to P which lists each vehicle as having 3 years 
NCD.
This means that even if WTS did make the error, P had the opportunity to check the
information was correct before the sale and I havent seen anything to show they corrected 
it. This information was also repeated on the Statement of Fact and again P had the 
opportunity to correct it. So, even if WTS did make a mistake when selling the policy, I think 
P had an opportunity to check whether the information provided was correct before the sale 
completed. As such, Im not going to hold WTS responsible for all costs that flow from the 
cancellation of the policy because I think P had the opportunity to correct that information.
Ive also considered the insurers point that if P had cancelled the policy after being told they
would need to pay an additional premium they would have incurred much higher cancellation
costs. Ive checked the policy and if P had cancelled the policy they would have been
charged 50% of the premium, as well as 50% of the additional premium. I calculate that 
would have been about £50,000 as well as the other fees added by the finance company. I 
asked P what they would have done in this situation and theyve said they would have had 
no choice but to pay the additional premium and continue with the policy. So, by not letting P 
know they would either need to pay an additional premium or the policy would be cancelled, 
I think WTS took this option away from P and led to the policy being cancelled by the insurer.
I appreciate that WTS feels strongly that P also did not correctly disclose other information, 
such as a cancelled policy and as such any losses are their own fault. However, I havent 
seen enough information to persuade me its most likely this is the case. So, it remains that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for WTS to retain the commission from the sale.
In addition to this, I only think its fair and reasonable for a broker to keep commission when
theyve made it clear to the policyholder how much commission would be charged in the 
event the policy is cancelled. Thats because WTS has to ensure it treats its customers fairly 
and provides information thats clear, fair and not misleading. While the Insurance Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) doesnt require a broker to disclose the amount of 
commission unless its asked, I dont think its fair and reasonable for a broker to claw back 
that commission if the policy is cancelled when it didnt let the policyholder know what that 
cost would be when it sold the policy. Ive seen WTS terms of business on its website and while it says that commission will be retained, it doesnt say how much that will be, or give a 
percentage so the policyholder can work it out. As P werent aware of the amount of 
commission that would be retained when entering into the contract with WTS, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable for it to be retained upon cancellation.
I still think that WTS caused P unnecessary inconvenience in that they had to park up
vehicles at a moments notice. And I think £500 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate them for this.
Im not going to comment on the £416.79 (plus interest) any further, as thats been agreed.
As such I intend to require WTS to:
Refund £4,826.60 commission plus interest at 8% simple from the date of the refund 
to the date it makes payment.
Refund the outstanding balance of £416.79, plus interest at 8% simple from the date 
of the refund to the date it makes payment.
£500 compensation for the inconvenience.
P didnt respond to the email. However, WTS still disagreed. In summary it said:
It had already agreed to refund the outstanding balance but hadnt known where to 
send it to as P hadnt provided any instructions.
It had provided the point of sale documents and my provisional findings show I agree 
P made a misrepresentation. As such it would seek to recover any award I make 
from P.
If I dont think its WTS fault incorrect information was provided about the NCD then it 
must be Ps fault. Also, P still hasnt provided the information required to show the 
level of NCD they disclosed when buying the policy.
WTS earns commission at the point of sale and doesnt refund this under any 
circumstances. It said it might look to judicially review any decision I make which 
awards this. 
P could have asked about the amount of commission earnt by WTS when buying the 
policy but didnt.
The cancellation notice was sent by the insurer to P by recorded delivery and as 
such WTS isnt responsible for any inconvenience caused by P not being aware of 
this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings, although I will 
address the points WTS has made.
Im pleased that WTS has agreed to refund the outstanding return of premium and as this 
has been agreed I see no reason to comment on it further.
I havent made a finding on whether P made a fair presentation of the risk when buying the 
policy, as that is between P and the insurer. So, I dont accept that Ive agreed that P made a 
misrepresentation when buying their policy. 
Its unclear from the information I have as to who was responsible for P buying a policy that was unsuitable. P said they phoned and asked for a fleet policy and were sold one which 
was unsuitable. WTS said when buying the policy P said they had three years NCD but 
havent been able to evidence that. 
WTS has provided some documents from the point of sale, but I havent seen a Demands 
and Needs statement, fact finding document or sales script to show the questions WTS 
asked when selling the policy. However, I dont think I need to make a finding on what most 
likely happened when the policy was sold, because it wouldnt change what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
If P didnt provide WTS with the correct information when buying the policy, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me they did it deliberately. In fact, P have provided emails which show 
them trying to get evidence of their claims history from their previous broker, which I dont 
think its likely they would have done if theyd known theyd provided incorrect information. 
The insurer confirmed in an email that they would continue to offer cover at an increased 
premium. I still havent seen anything to show WTS put this offer to P or let them know the 
policy would be cancelled if they chose not to pay the additional premium. So, I think WTS 
made a mistake here, as it should have let P know their options. Mr F said that if WTS had 
told P about the additional premium then they would have no choice but to pay it for that 
year, in order for the cover to continue. Im persuaded by what Mr F said because Ps other 
options would be having a cancellation on their record or being charged around £50,000 to 
cancel the policy plus a similar cost to buy another one. 
Its not in dispute that the insurer wrote to P to let them know the policy was cancelled. 
However, P said they didnt think the cancellation applied because WTS had told them they 
would sort out the cancellation and to ignore any letters. I can see that all previous 
communication between the insurer and P had been through WTS. And that there had been 
previous threats of cancellation which had been extended following discussions between 
WTS and the insurer. 
I havent been provided with any calls between WTS and P, so its impossible to know 
whether WTS told P to ignore any cancellation letters. However, I think its unlikely P would 
have continued to send out drivers if they thought they werent insured, and they also called 
WTS in August 2019 to add more drivers on to the policy. I also understand that the finance 
provider wasnt made aware that the policy had cancelled until August 2019 and so the 
direct debit payments continued to be taken.
Even though the insurer cancelled the policy, I think WTS should have done more to make 
sure P was aware of it given that all other communication had been between WTS and P. 
And by not doing so WTS led P to believe that the cancellation letter wasnt valid. 
This means that I think WTS made some errors which have put P in a worse position than 
they should have been in. And its for me to decide what is a fair and reasonable way for it to 
put things right. In addition to the premium for the time they were on cover, P have been 
charged over £4,000 commission and around £6,000 in non-refundable finance fees, as well 
as having to buy a new policy and having a cancelled policy on their record. I dont think they 
would have had all these costs if WTS had let P know that the insurer would either charge 
an additional premium or cancel the policy, as P would have paid the additional premium.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for WTS to retain the commission for the sale, given its 
errors and that this isnt a cost P would have incurred if WTS hadnt stopped communicating 
with them. While there are also further losses, such as the non-refundable finance fees, Im 
not going to require WTS to pay these as well, because I do think P shares some 
responsibility due to not picking up that some information on the quotation and Statement of Fact wasnt correct. In deciding which costs its fair and reasonable for WTS to reimburse P 
for, Ive also taken into account that P would have had to pay a substantial additional 
premium if they had continued with the policy. 
Also, I would only think it was fair for a broker to retain the premium if it had made it clear to 
the policyholder how much commission would be charged in the event the policy is 
cancelled. Thats because WTS has to ensure it treats its customers fairly and provides 
information thats clear, fair and not misleading. While the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) doesnt require a broker to disclose the amount of commission unless 
its asked, I dont think its fair and reasonable for a broker to claw back that commission
if the policy is cancelled when it didnt let the policyholder know what that cost would be 
when it sold the policy. Ive seen WTS terms of business on its website and while it says 
that commission will be retained, it doesnt say how much that will be, or give a percentage 
so the policyholder can work it out. 
I appreciate P didnt ask about the level of commission - and if it had WTS would have 
disclosed it. But I dont think it being available on request makes the level of commission 
clear enough if a broker wants to retain it if a policy is cancelled. As P werent aware of the 
amount of commission that would be retained when entering into the contract with WTS, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for it to be retained upon cancellation.
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision and email of 29 March 
2021, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for WTS to reimburse P the £4,826.60 
commission, plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date the policy was cancelled to 
the date it makes payment, due to the time P was without money they should have had.  
I also remain satisfied that WTS mistakes caused P inconvenience as P had drivers working 
across Europe at the point they became aware the policy had been cancelled. If WTS hadnt 
made the errors it did, P wouldnt have had this inconvenience. To put this right WTS should 
pay P £500 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, in my provisional decision and email of 29 March 2021, my 
final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require W Todd & Son Limited to:
Refund P £4,826.60 commission plus interest at 8% simple from the date of the 
refund to the date it makes payment.
Refund P the outstanding balance of £416.79, plus interest at 8% simple from the 
date of the refund to the date it makes payment.
Pay £500 compensation for the inconvenience.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman