DRN-3751410
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
unfairly declined a vehicle theft claim. M also complains that Great lakes is not taking liability 
for the storage costs incurred. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Briefly, M took out a Motor Fleet insurance policy. In August 2021, Ms vehicle was stolen, so 
it made a claim on the policy. 
M gave permission for one its subcontractors, which Ill refer to as C, to use its vehicle. The 
vehicle in question was taken to Cs home address and parked on the road. The following 
morning, C came out to the vehicle to find that someone had got into the vehicle and caused 
damage to the ignition barrel and there were also signs of an attempt to pick the locks of the 
vehicle.
Due to the damage to the ignition barrel, C said the steering lock on the vehicle couldnt be 
removed and the vehicle was not in a drivable condition. C informed M of the incident and M 
arranged for a vehicle locksmith to attend and repair the damage. M said the earliest call out 
available was for 8:00 pm that day. M says C returned home between 4:30 pm to 5:00 pm 
and the vehicle was still parked up. At 8:00 pm, C and one of Ms directors went to meet the 
locksmith and found that the vehicle had been stolen. 
Great Lakes said despite knowing the vehicle had been targeted for an attempted theft and 
the locks and ignition barrel being damaged, there was no attempt to move the vehicle to a 
safe location. Great Lakes concluded that M did not take reasonable precautions to 
safeguard the vehicle and keep it in a good state of repair which is a breach of its policy 
condition. Great Lakes therefore declined Ms claim. 
M said the vehicle, which was heavily loaded, was locked and parked tightly in between two 
other vehicles. M was unable to drive the vehicle or move it due to the damage to the ignition 
barrel, so M didnt think anyone else could either. M said it did everything possible and feels 
that it has been treated unfairly by Great Lakes. 
M also complains about the storage charges incurred following the recovery of the vehicle. It 
says it wasnt informed by Great Lakes till around three weeks after the vehicle was 
recovered and had been in storage. It also says that even after it was informed, it couldnt 
collect the vehicle because the V5 registration document and vehicle keys had been sent to 
Great Lakes as per their request and M was told by the police and the storage company that 
M was no longer the registered keeper of the vehicle and therefore couldnt collect it. 
Our investigator recommended that Ms complaint should be upheld. She explained that in 
order for Great Lakes to rely on the reasonable care term, to reject Ms claim, they need to 
show that M had failed to take reasonable precautions to safeguard its vehicle. Our 
investigator didnt think that Great Lakes had shown this, and she didnt think M had failed to 
take reasonable precautions. She recommended that Great Lakes settles Ms claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms. She also considered the storage charges and said that 
these would resolve as part of the claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
I sent an email to both parties outlining my initial thoughts. In summary, I said that I didnt 
think Great Lakes had shown that M failed to take reasonable precautions to safeguard its 
vehicle. I referred to the test from the case of Sofi v Prudential Assurance Company
Limited [1993] 2 Lloyd's Law Rep. 559, which says that for an insurer to establish that a 
customer failed to take reasonable care, it must show that the customer recognised the risk 
to their belongings and courted that risk by taking precautions which they knew were 
inadequate (or no precautions at all) to mitigate the risk. In applying this test, I thought M 
took reasonable precautions in the circumstances by locking the vehicle after it discovered 
the initial theft attempt and calling a locksmith to repair the damage so it could move the 
vehicle. So, while I think M did recognise a risk, it took actions which it thought were 
reasonable in the circumstances to safeguard the vehicle.
I also considered the storage costs and said that having been contacted by the police, I 
didnt think Great Lakes did enough to recover the vehicle. 
Great Lakes responded to my correspondence and said that they didnt agree that by locking 
the vehicle and calling a locksmith M had taken reasonable precautions to safeguard the 
vehicle. But provided no additional reasoning on this point. And regarding the storage costs, 
they felt they had appropriately informed M of the recovery of the vehicle by the police and 
need for collection and therefore they were not liable for the storage costs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything M and Great Lakes have said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
The crux of this complaint centres on Great Lakes decision to decline Ms claim. The 
relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes have a responsibility to handle the 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if 
I think Great Lakes have applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner 
when declining Ms claim. Having reviewed everything available to me, I dont think they did, 
Ill explain why.
There is no dispute the theft of the vehicle took place.
The condition which Great Lakes have relied on in Ms policy says:
(4) You shall take all due and reasonable precautions to safeguard the Insured 
Vehicle and to keep it in a good state of repair
Great Lakes argues that M didnt take reasonable precautions to safeguard its vehicle 
following the discovery of an attempted theft, and therefore declined its claim. 
In order to apply an exclusion for reasonable care, an insurer has to, in effect, prove a 
policyholder has been reckless. The test for recklessness was laid down by the Court of Appeal in the case of Sofi v Prudential, as explained above. 
M said that following the attempted theft it ensured the vehicle was locked and a locksmith 
was booked to repair the damage to the ignition barrel because it couldnt move the vehicle 
in its current condition. It also explained that the driver checked on the vehicle when he 
returned home from work and at that time the vehicle was still there.  
It's difficult to know now exactly what happened and while Ive requested the drivers witness 
statements from Great Lakes to get a better picture of the circumstances, Ive not received 
them.
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not, given 
the evidence which is available and the wider circumstances.
It is not known whether the vehicle was locked or not when the driver discovered the 
attempted theft. On a balance of probability, given that someone broke in and there was 
evidence of an attempted theft, I think its more likely than not that the vehicle was left 
unlocked following the attempted theft. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for M 
to think the precautions it took were reasonable because by locking the vehicle entry couldnt 
be gained anymore, and also for the reasons explained above, the vehicle couldnt be 
moved. 
I dont think Great Lakes have shown recklessness and because of this, I dont think they 
were fair to apply the reasonable care condition to Ms claim.  
To put things right, I think Great Lakes should reconsider Ms claim under the remaining 
policy terms and pay M £200 for the inconvenience caused. 
Storage costs 
Great Lakes was notified by the police that the vehicle had been recovered and was in 
storage incurring daily storage costs. The polices letter, dated 11 November 2021, 
explained that the vehicle had be collected within 14 days from the date it was seized 
otherwise it would be disposed of. Due to the post being sent to Great Lakes previous office 
address, they said the letter wasnt received until 1 December 2021 but then notified M 
immediately so it could arrange to collect the vehicle. 
I have seen communication between Great Lakes and M which suggests that when Great 
Lakes notified M on 2 December 2021 that the vehicle had been recovered and to collect it, 
Great Lakes were still in possession of the V5 vehicle registration document and the vehicle 
keys. Great Lakes ought to have been aware that M wouldnt have been able to collect the 
vehicle without these items. 
M asked for the registration document and vehicle keys to be returned. Great Lakes 
provided a postal tracking reference to show that the items were returned to M on 11 
December 2021. M says it didnt receive the post, but in any event, it was informed that it 
was no longer the registered keeper and so couldnt collect the vehicle. As the vehicle wasnt 
collected, it was disposed of in line with the polices letter. 
Given the short timeframe to collect the vehicle, coupled with the delays in M becoming 
aware of the recovery and also the fact that Great Lakes were still in possession of the V5 
registration document and vehicle keys, I dont think Great Lakes did enough to recover Ms 
vehicle from storage. They should have been more proactive in resolving matters. I remain 
satisfied that they should take responsibility for the storage costs for that lack of proactivity.My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE, should reconsider Ms theft claim under 
the remaining policy terms and pay M £200 for the inconvenience caused. They should also 
pay any storage costs in relation to this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman