DRN-2168808
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) when he made a chargeback request.
What happened
Mr F bought four return flight tickets for his family in January 2019. On the day of the 
departure the flight was cancelled by the airline company whom I shall call X. The reason for 
this was an IT problem. X told the family to go home and that they would be contacted 
regarding a rescheduled flight. Mr F then contacted X and was told there were no seats 
available on any flight for that day.  And 
After speaking with X Mr F booked four business class outbound only tickets for two days 
later, and X agreed that the return flights would be extended by two days. X told Mr F he 
would receive a refund for the cancelled outbound journey. Mr Fs family used the flights two 
days later and returned on the rescheduled dates.
Mr F raised eight chargeback requests with AESEL, four for the business class outbound 
tickets and four for the return tickets. X provided Mr F with partial refunds for the 4 original 
outbound flights and AESEL advised Mr F to deal with X directly regarding the other tickets. 
In relation to the service AESEL provided to Mr F, they agreed that it had fallen below the 
level he ought to have received. For that they applied £100 to his account by way of 
compensation.
Mr F was unhappy with AESELs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator however thought that AESEL hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargebacks were all raised on the basis that the service Mr F had paid for was not 
received. Chargebacks are always raised under specific codes and I am satisfied that in Mr 
Fs case the correct codes were used. They were code 4554  Goods/Services not received.
AESEL have said that all the disputes were closed in Xs favour either due to not receiving 
supporting documentation from Mr F, or the evidence provided by X was considered enough 
to validate the charges. AESEL have confirmed that the four original outbound flights were 
partially refunded and part of the value of the tickets had been exchanged for the new flights 
which were then used. The four original return flight tickets were extended by two days and 
also used. 
So, the position here is that the Goods/Services were in fact received. The new outbound 
flights and the return flights were used. So, I cant say that AESEL are at fault for not taking 
matters further. I know Mr F believes AESEL should have fought his corner much harder, but 
I do not agree. AESEL did what they could under the Chargeback scheme and could do no 
more in the circumstances.
I also know Mr F is unhappy that the price for the four new tickets was much higher than it 
was when he made his booking earlier in the year and feels he ought to be refunded that 
sum. But flight ticket prices do change depending on when they are purchased. And so, I 
agree that this is an issue which ought to be taken up directly with X, and its not a matter for 
AESEL to deal with under the Chargeback.
In relation to the other issues Mr F complains about, AESEL have accepted that their service 
level fell below their usual standards in that they failed to return to calls as promised. They 
have also explained that correspondence which Mr F didnt receive was in fact sent. I have 
no reason to doubt Mr F when he says he didnt receive it but equally I have no reason to 
doubt AESEL who have produced copies of the documents sent. So, I cant say AESEL 
have been unfair here and I cannot hold them responsible for the non-delivery of the 
correspondence..
Mr F also believed that his credit rating had been adversely affected by this dispute but 
AESEL have produced evidence to show that the late payment markers were added to Mr 
Fs credit file prior to this dispute being raised with them and so cant be related to this issue. 
I agree that has to be correct. 
AESEL has accepted that it didnt get some things right and because of that it compensated 
Mr F with £100 for their failure to return the calls. Ive given this some further thought as to 
whether this is a reasonable amount and I think it is. 
So, although Mr F will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst AESEL have 
indeed made errors, I cant say AESEL has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has already paid Mr F £100 to settle 
this complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont 
require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman