DRN-3750138
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sky UK Limited unfairly asks him to repay lending it provided for goods 
he says he didnt receive. 
What happened
On 31 March 2021 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan with Sky to finance the purchase of a 
mobile phone, which was also to be supplied by Sky.
Mr P says that he wasnt at home when the device was meant to be delivered, but the 
package was taken in by a family member. He subsequently told Sky that when he returned 
home a few days later he found that the device wasnt in the package. Mr P raised the issue 
with Sky on 5 April 2021.
Sky wasnt persuaded by what Mr P had said as it thought there wasnt any evidence the 
package had been tampered with. It gave Mr P referral rights to this service, and Mr P 
subsequently asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. They accepted that Mr P had provided 
pictures of the package hed received which seems to show that itd been accessed. 
However, they also said that Sky had provided pictures of the package when delivered which 
they said showed that it had likely not been accessed or opened before the point of delivery. 
They suggested it was possible the package couldve been somehow accessed after it had 
been delivered but before Mr P ultimately opened it fully. Overall, they were persuaded that 
the device had most likely been in the package that had been delivered.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that no one else at his address wouldve accessed the package 
and suggested it couldve been accessed by the courier, or that the device might not have 
been in the package from the outset. He maintained that he hadnt received the goods he 
was meant to and had now had to buy an alternative device.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on the case, so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sky provided Mr P with a fixed sum loan to finance the purchase on an electronic device. It 
was also the supplier of the device, so it was responsible for its delivery. As well as the fixed 
sum loan to cover the cost, Mr P had an additional contract with Sky for the supply and use 
of the device, as well as associated services. 
Ive seen that the terms of Mr Ps fixed sum loan linked the other contract for the supply of 
the device. Given this, and as it appears that both contracts were sold as one package, in 
my view the contracts were intrinsically linked - the credit agreement actually sets out that it 
is a requirement for Mr P to also enter into a contract for the supply of equipment. As a 
result, Ill consider both contracts together in determining whether Sky has treated Mr P 
fairly. 
Mr Ps fixed sum loan has terms which seek to stop him setting off a claim under one 
contract against the other. This might apply in a situation where Mr P seeks to make a claim 
about the failure to supply the goods to him under the linked contract for goods and services. 
Ive thought about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says about contract terms, 
and Im also aware that it is for a court to decide if a term is unfair, but Im required to take 
into account relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable.  
Having carefully considered this, I dont think it would be fair to exclude Mr Ps right to set off 
a claim under one contract against the other. I think we can consider Mr Ps claim that Sky 
breached its contract with him by not supplying the goods. In any case there is a regulated 
credit agreement, under which Mr P is being charged for the goods, so I can consider 
whether Sky is acting fairly by asking Mr P to pay where there is a dispute about delivery.
As a result, Im able to decide whether I think, on balance, that the device in question was 
delivered to Mr Ps address. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is in this case), I make
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr P made a number of submissions to our investigator and he might find Ive not mentioned 
every point hes made. Thats simply because I dont find it necessary to do so in explaining 
what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. I can, however, assure him that Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said and submitted.
It seems both parties agree that a package was delivered to Mr Ps address. The couriers 
notes show that someone at the address had provided Mr Ps identification to receive the 
package. Mr P accepts he left identification with a family member to receive the package. He 
contends, however, that the device wasnt inside that package.
Sky has gone into detail regarding the process it follows in fulfilling an order like Mr Ps. That 
includes receiving the device directly from the manufacturer and then employing various 
security measures, such as factory surveillance, anti-tamper measures as well as a digital 
record of the whereabouts of the package. 
Sky hasnt provided any evidence relating to this specific device, but I can see from the 
pictures that Mr P provided that the weight of the contents of the box is recorded on the label 
at 0.85kg  a weight likely consistent with the device. So, given the process Skys explained 
as well as the level of security measures it seems to have employed to track and monitor the 
devices whereabouts, and the information on the boxs label, on balance I think the device 
was likely in the package which was delivered.
Additionally, Sky provided a picture of the package which was delivered to Mr Ps address, 
on what appears to be his doorstep. I think that picture shows that the package was 
undamaged, and it didnt appear to have been tampered with. 
Mr P told us that when he returned after a few days away, both the top and bottom of the 
package were loose to the extent that it had gaps. The pictures of the package that Mr P has 
provided show it having been opened, but I agree the bottom of the package looks very 
loose, like it couldve been accessed. Thats quite different to the condition of the package in 
the couriers delivery picture.Mr P refutes that the package couldve been accessed following its delivery, in his absence. 
He accounts for the difference in the appearance of the package due to the couriers picture 
being of lower quality. I disagree. I think that the picture Sky has provided from its courier is 
sufficiently clear and shows that the package which was delivered was unlikely to have been 
accessed prior to delivery. So, on balance, I think its likely the device Mr P ordered was in 
the package which was delivered to his address.
Taking all of the above into account, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Sky failed to 
provide Mr P with the device he was given a loan for. So, it follows that I think Sky has acted 
fairly by asking Mr P to repay the loan it provided him with.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman