DRN-3831986
The complaint
Mr Ts representative has complained, on his behalf, that Smith & Williamson Investment
Services Limited, trading as Tilney, gave him unsuitable advice in 1996 to begin
contributions to a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan instead of
opting for one of his in house options connected to membership of his occupational
pension scheme (OPS).
In particular, Mr T has said that he should have been advised to begin buying added years.
What happened
At the time of the advice, Mr T was 28 years old and employed as a qualified doctor, earning
around £30,000 pa. He was a member of the defined contribution NHS pension scheme,
which had a normal scheme retirement age of 60.
Tilney has said that theres limited documentation from the time of the advice, as it was
given by a predecessor firm, which it had since acquired. But it said that Mr T should instead
have been advised to contribute to the in house AVC scheme instead of the FSAVC policy.
It didnt think that buying added years would have been a suitable recommendation, as the
level of contribution which Mr T was making to the FSAVC policy wasnt sufficient for this.
Mr T disagreed, however, saying that the history and duration of the FSAVC contract was at
a sufficient level to have funded added years, and, suitably advised, this was the option he
would have chosen.
Mr Ts representative referred the matter to this service, where it was considered by one of
our investigators. He noted that Mr T wasnt married at the time of the advice, and had no
financial dependants. Mr T had also said that he had a clear path to an increasing salary.
The investigator said that buying added years was usually a more expensive way of
enhancing retirement benefits, was inflexible, and provided family benefits which werent
always required.
Further, Mr T would have needed to commit to a set percentage of his salary and so the
amount hed pay for added years would increase each time his salary increased.
On the basis that Mr T had himself said that the in house AVC was cheaper than the FSAVC
policy, the investigator thought that this indicated that he would have declined the more
expensive option of added years. Mr T might have been prepared to take the investment risk
of AVCs which was designed to produce the same outcome as added years, the investigator
said, and it was unclear as to whether Mr T would have been prepared to make the required
financial commitment of buying those added years.
Although the investigator noted the normal scheme retirement age of 60, he said that it
wasnt uncommon for doctors to continue working beyond that, in which case Mr T may in
any case have achieved 40 years scheme membership without needing to buy added years.
The investigator further said that, although he accepted that Mr T could more likely than not
have afforded to buy added years, he hadnt increased his FSAVC contributions over time, in
contrast to the notional increases in the cost of added years over the same period.
Mr Ts representative disagreed, however, saying that Mr T had himself confirmed that he
had sufficient income, both then and in the future, to buy added years, and that he was
intentionally drawn away from that option by the adviser.
It further said that none of the conditions in which an FSAVC policy might be deemed to be
appropriate, such as the expectation of regularly moving jobs, income not expected to rise
substantially or regularly, where the customer had a desire to retire early, or where the
customer required anonymity form their employer, applied here.
Although Mr T may not have increased his contribution over time, this service had previously
set out that this lack of escalation should be ignored in any loss calculation. But the adviser
could in any case have been considered to be negligent in not recommending, or reviewing
the option of, an increasing premium.
The lower cost of the FSAVC plan was also irrelevant, the representative said, as any loss
calculation would be based on the equivalent added years being bought with the same
premium. And it wished to reiterate that the scheme retirement age was 60.
In conclusion, the representative said that Mr T had now missed out on the opportunity to
buy added years as this had been withdrawn in 2008.
The investigator was unmoved, however, reiterating that added years would have been
regarded as the expensive option and that the enhanced benefit of that option, whilst now
known, couldnt have been anticipated at the time.
Had Mr T increased his FSAVCs over the years, this would, in the investigators view, have
been a clearer indication that he would have opted for added years, as this would have been
more aligned with the increase in added years contributions as his salary increased. But this
hadnt been the case, he said.
Mr Ts representative continued to disagree, saying that Mr T had commented that he had
simply followed the advice given, which had been incorrect. Mr T had also visited the offices
of the FSAVC plan provider since the initial recommendation, and had been advised to not
increase his contributions on the basis that although the return from the FSAVC policy was
still expected to be high, it may not be as high as had originally been anticipated.
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision dated 3 October 2022, in which I set out my reasons for 
upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I have some sympathy with the points made by Mr T and his
representative. Id firstly echo the observation made by the investigator that it doesnt seem
to be disputed by any party that Mr T ought to have been advised to choose one of the in
house options. The issue which remains is whether Mr T ought to have been advised, andwould then have accepted that advice, to buy added years as opposed to choosing the AVC
route.
I think the uncertainties around what Mr T might have done at the time if presented with the
options are validly set out by the investigator, but I have a slightly different take on what, on
a balance of probabilities, Mr T would more likely than not have done if suitably informed and
advised.
For example, Mr T was 28 at the time of the advice, and may not have had a family at that
point which might have benefited from added years. But the fact that he was relatively young
meant that this might of course change over the coming years.
Mr T may also have not increased his contributions over the years, but its far from clear that
this could be attributed to affordability issues. Its just as likely, if not more so, in my view that
he simply didnt revisit the matter in the absence of suggested reviews. And although Mr T
may have commented on the likelihood of the in house AVC arrangement being cheaper
than the FSAVC plan, I dont think this is indicative of affordability issues  rather, Mr T is
likely to have been commenting on the simple fact in support of the position that he should
have been pointed towards the in house options.
An annual salary of £30,000 in 1996 for a single 28 year old was not an insubstantial sum,
and in the absence of evidence to suggest that Mr T was significantly encumbered by
outgoings either then or in the future, I dont think it can fairly or reasonably conclude that
affordability of added years would have been an issue.
It would have been a greater financial commitment than investing in AVCs, but Mr T was
established as a qualified doctor and was on a career path which is arguably one of the
more predictable, both in terms of progression and likely salary increases. And on the basis
of a scheme retirement age of 60, it was unlikely, given the training he would have
undergone before becoming a member of the NHS scheme, that he would achieve his full 40
years maximum service by that age.
So my view is that Mr T was a very credible candidate for buying added years. I think the
proposition of the investment risk/reward of AVCs, as opposed to added years, appealing to
a 28 year old with more than 30 years to go until retirement is a good point, and the
unfortunate aspect here is that we dont know what was recorded about Mr Ts attitude to
risk at the time. But in the absence of this, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably conclude
that it would have superseded the appeal of the zero risk, likely affordable, and guaranteed
benefits which would have been provided by buying added years.
As such, I think its more likely than not that Mr T would have opted to buy added years in
this instance.
Putting things right
Im currently of the view that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put
Mr T, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Smith & Williamson Investment Services Limited should therefore undertake a redress
calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review methodology on an added years basis.
This involves using, in part, the Pension Review methodology as updated by the Financial
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should carried out as at the date of any final decision along these lines, and
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance withthe regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and
75% would have been taxed according to his/her likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
I am aware that on 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on changes to this
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27
September 2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current methodology in
FG17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its
review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the
methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
Nevertheless, the basic objective of the proposed amendments still remains to put a
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised
them to buy added years.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 during the consultation. But until
changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation
to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into force after the
consultation has concluded.
I think its fair for me to give Mr T the same choice.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. And, having reviewed the FCAs consultation and
its proposed updates to the methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed changes under
consultation would, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr T in
this case.
Therefore, if Mr T wishes to have his redress calculated in line with any new or updated
guidance and rules, I intend to ask Smith & Williamson Investment Services Limited to
undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as any new
rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due
compensation now in line with FG17/9). As I have set out above, it is not certain when any
updated rules and guidance will come into effect, but the FCA has said that it expects this
will be in early 2023.
As noted above, the FCA has stated that the aim of any updated guidance and rules would
remain the same as in FG17/9, which is to put consumers in the position they would be in if
they had bought added years.
This Service cant advise Mr T on whether or not Mr T should wait. The FCA has publishedsome information and answers to likely questions consumers might have about how redress
is calculated. I recommend that Mr T reads this information before he makes his choice.
This can be found here: https://www.fca.org.uk/consumers/pension-transfer-defined-
benefit/redress-calculations
Mr T should let me know in response to this view whether he wishes for Smith & Williamson
Investment Services Limited to calculate any compensation that may be owed to him:
a) in line with the guidance in FG17/9 (as recommended above)
or
b) in line with any new rules or guidance that are expected to come into force in early
    2023.
If I dont receive a response on this point, Ill assume Mr T doesnt wish to wait and Ill
continue to direct that compensation be calculated in line with FG17/9.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the outcome of the
consultation is published, Id expect Smith & Williamson Investment Services Limited to carry
out a calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Smith & Williamson Investment Services Limited hasnt responded to the provisional 
decision, but Mr Ts representative confirmed acceptance of my findings and that Mr T didnt 
wish to wait for any updated guidance to be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
Smith & Williamson Investment Services Limited, trading as Tilney, should undertake the 
above calculation, as set out in the provisional decision, on the basis of the current guidance 
(unless the complaint hasnt been settled before any updated rules or guidance, as set out 
above). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Smith & Williamson Investment 
Services Limited, trading as Tilney, to undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman