DRN-2734776
The complaint
Miss P complains about Vanquis Bank Limited and their decision to approve her credit card 
application.
What happened
In July 2015, Miss B applied for a credit card with Vanquis. This application was approved, 
and she was provided with a credit limit of £150.
But after the credit card had been given to Miss B, she fell into financial difficulty. She said 
she had to skip payments on other debts and borrow money from family members to 
maintain the minimum payments on the card during this time. So, she didnt think the credit 
card was affordable when Vanquis decided to approve her application. Because of this, she 
raised a complaint.
Miss B thought Vanquis failed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
the credit card was affordable to her at the time it was taken out. She explained she had 
outstanding debt at the time and felt that, if Vanquis had completed reasonable checks, they 
wouldve realised this and declined her application. So, she wanted Vanquis to refund the 
interest charges that had been applied to her account and a further 8% statutory interest.
Vanquis didnt agree. They thought theyd approved the Miss Bs application fairly and that 
the checks theyd made were proportionate. They explained theyd assessed the income 
information Miss B had provided against her credit file and from this, they thought the £150 
credit limit was affordable. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss B 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained the credit limit 
given to Miss B was low compared to the annual income she declared. So, he thought the 
checks Vanquis had made at the time were proportionate. And he also thought Vanquis 
decision to approve the application was fair based on the information they had available to 
them at the time. He recognised the credit file Vanquis used didnt report all the outstanding 
debt Miss B had, but he explained this is because lenders dont always report to each Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA). And after reviewing another credit file provided by Miss B, he 
didnt think it provided information that wouldve meant Vanquis definitely wouldve declined 
the application. 
He explained Vanquis offered credit to those with lower credit ratings to give them an 
opportunity to build their rating. And as Miss Bs outstanding debts were relatively low, and 
there were no recent adverse markers on her file, he couldnt say Vanquis acted unfairly or 
wouldve definitely changed their decision. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Miss B didnt agree with this view. She maintained her opinion that Vanquis shouldve asked 
to see payslips or bank statements and that if they had, they wouldnt have approved the 
application. She also didnt think it was fair for Vanquis to target customers with lower credit 
ratings. As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss B. Ive no doubt Miss B 
did encounter financial difficulty after the credit application had been approved. And I can 
appreciate how stressful and upsetting this wouldve been to handle and rectify. Because of 
this, I can understand why Miss B would attribute some of this to the credit card, and the 
decision made by Vanquis. But for me to say Vanquis have done something wrong, Id need 
to be satisfied they failed to complete checks that were proportionate to the credit limit they 
approved. Or if I think the checks were proportionate, Id need to see Vanquis failed to 
assess the information these checks produced fairly and reasonably. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case. 
The actions lenders such as Vanquis are obliged to take when approving credit applications 
are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). This explains there isnt a set number of checks a lender has to make before 
deciding to lend. Instead, it explains the checks must be proportionate to the amount they 
are lending. So, Ive considered whether I think the checks Vanquis made were 
proportionate.
In this situation, the £150 credit limit Vanquis approved was relatively small compared to the 
£16,000 annual income Miss B declared. Ive seen Vanquis completed a credit check in 
order to understand Miss Bs other financial commitments and outstanding debts and then 
used this information alongside the information Miss B declared in her application. 
The limit Vanquis approved was lower than Miss Bs monthly income. And the minimum 
monthly payment Miss B would be required to make would only be a percentage of the limit. 
Because of this, I think the checks Vanquis made were proportionate to the limit they 
approved. I understand Miss B doesnt agree with this and I have considered her comments. 
But Id only expect Vanquis to complete further checks, such as proof of payslips of bank 
statements, if the limit was much higher in comparison to a customers annual income. So, I 
dont think they did anything wrong in terms of the number of checks they completed.
Ive then considered whether I think Vanquis assessed the information these checks 
provided fairly and reasonably. 
Miss B listed her employment status as employed full time, with an annual income of 
£16,000. The credit file Vanquis had show one other outstanding account, with a balance of 
£100. And the credit file showed no defaults or County Court Judgements (CCJ). So, from 
the information Vanquis had available, Miss B looked as though she was managing her 
finances well. And the limit of £150 was affordable when considered against Miss Bs annual 
income and her outstanding debts. Because of this, I think Vanquis assessed the information 
they had available to them fairly, and their decision to lend was reasonable. So, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
But I am aware Miss B did have other accounts that hadnt been reported to the CRA 
Vanquis used. Lenders dont always report credit file information to all CRAs, and it looks as though this was the case in this instance. But I cant say this was the fault of Vanquis. And I 
wouldnt have expected Vanquis to have used multiple CRAs when assessing Miss Bs 
credit file. Even so, for completeness, Ive thought about whether I think its likely Vanquis 
decision to lend may have been different if theyd have used another CRA to assess Miss 
Bs credit file. And I dont think it would.
Although Miss Bs file showed she had a higher amount of outstanding credit, it also showed 
that in the previous two years before the application, Miss B was managing these accounts 
well. This is because there had been no recent defaults or CCJs, or other adverse credit 
markers. As Vanquis offer credit to customers with a lower credit rating who may not be 
approved elsewhere, I dont think I can fairly say there was enough information to say 
Vanquis wouldnt, or shouldnt, have offered the credit. Even though Miss B did have more 
outstanding debt, the limit Vanquis offered was small and wouldnt have impacted the size of 
Miss Bs debts significantly.
Im also aware Miss B has referred to credit limit increases, which she ignored. Ive seen no 
evidence to show a credit limit increase was offered. And Ive seen from Miss Bs statements 
that no increase was ever applied to the account. So, this isnt something Ive considered 
further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help 
alleviate any financial difficulty she may still find herself in. But I hope this decision goes 
some way to explaining why the checks Vanquis completed were proportionate, and how 
Vanquis assessed the information they had at the time of the application fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman