DRN-2812212
The complaint
Mr P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc completed repairs poorly, following a subsidence 
claim on his home insurance policy. He says this has caused significant damp issues, and 
he believes the subsidence related movement is still ongoing.
Mr P is represented by his surveyor, Mr S.
What happened
In 1999, Mr P made a successful subsidence claim. Vegetation was removed, and Allianz 
undertook crack repairs and redecorations. 
Mr P went on to report further issues at the property. In 2003, Allianz accepted the property 
was still suffering from subsidence. However, Allianz also said a major factor was the lack of 
connection between the different types of construction, where the two extensions adjoin the 
original property. It said that such differential movement wasnt covered. Nonetheless, in 
2004, Allianz undertook structural repairs to the left flank wall. This was after Mr P had 
completed some private works, to resolve the damp issues at the property.
In 2016, Mr P contacted Allianz again. He thought the property was still moving due to the 
appearance of some cracks and gaps. The property was also suffering from further damp. 
Allianz undertook level monitoring and damp investigations. 
Allianz concluded the monitoring readings showed no significant movement. It also said the 
damp investigations found the damp issue was a long-standing problem that related to the 
construction and build of the property, not its previous repairs. Mr P complained about 
Allianzs further claim decision.
In February 2019, Allianz responded to Mr Ps complaint. It maintained its claim decision, but 
it offered him £150 compensation for delays. Mr P referred his complaint to this service, and 
it was considered by one of our investigators. He upheld the complaint in part. However, 
because Mr P remained unhappy, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Theres been a significant amount of exchanges between Mr S, Allianz, and our investigator. 
I wont repeat all those exchanges here, as both parties are aware of the history of the claim, 
this complaint, and our investigators findings. However, Ill focus on the key issues, as 
I understand them, within my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to have 
happened, based on all the evidence thats available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I have carefully considered all of Mr Ss submissions. However, its not our role to comment 
on every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where I havent directly commented on a point, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. As explained by our investigator, this is simply a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service, its remit, and our roles in it. 
I will set out my findings under the following six headings: 2016 claim  subsidence or 
heave; 2004 re-render; poor previous repairs; internal damp; surveyor fees; and 
compensation.
2016 claim  subsidence or heave
The policy covers subsidence and heave. The policy terms define these insured events as 
follows:
- Subsidence: Downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings (other than 
by the action of made up ground settling or by structures bedding down within 10 
years of construction).
- Heave: Upward movement of the ground beneath the buildings as a result of the soil 
expanding.
Allianz undertook monitoring from March 2017 to January 2018. It says the results show the 
property isnt suffering from any ongoing downward movement, and the cracking is due to 
lateral and thermal movement. Allianz says its not responsible for determining the exact 
cause of such movement, as its not covered under the policy. Generally speaking, this 
service expects an insurer to undertake sufficient investigations to confirm or rule out 
subsidence or heave, and where its done so, it doesnt need to go on to investigate 
uninsured causes.
The readings were taken from eight points, on six dates. The most movement was recorded 
at point 6, during the last two readings. However, the loss adjusters considered these to be 
rogue readings. It said if there was such movement at point 6, then points 5 and 7 would 
have moved too. The loss adjusters said the screw at point 6 could have been knocked.
Excluding the last two readings at point 6 (which were 6.5mm and 7.2mm), the movement 
across the eight points ranged from -3.5mm to 1.5mm.  
Based on the monitoring readings, visual examination, and spirit level assessment; the loss 
adjusters didnt consider the damage to be from foundation movement. It said the left-hand 
elevation appears to receive the afternoon sun, and it concluded the cracking in this area 
was likely being caused by thermal movement. 
In respect of the fracturing within the bedroom, the loss adjusters noted the roof trusses are 
suffering from age related deflection and it said this would put additional stress on the ends 
of the pitched roof in the form of lateral movement. It said this could be the reason for the 
cracking. It also noted that the ceilings are constructed using lath and plaster, and it 
concluded the fracturing was likely related to age, wear and tear.
The loss adjusters say, other than the last two readings at point 6, the readings throughout 
the property were fairly consistent. So, it says it can be satisfied the movement is uniform 
seasonal movement. The loss adjusters concluded different parts of the property werent 
moving at different rates, or at least, the differential movement that was recorded wasnt 
indicative of subsidence or heave.Mr S disputes the last two readings at point 6 were due to the screw being knocked. He says 
it was protected, due to its location in an alcove. He also says the readings were significantly 
high on both occasions, so it wasnt a single rogue reading. Mr S says its unlikely the screw 
was knocked on both occasions. However, its my understanding that the readings show the 
level of movement from that points first reading, and the screw isnt reset each time. So, if 
the screw was knocked before the fifth reading, this false movement would have also been 
included in the sixth reading. Therefore, the screw being knocked before the fifth reading 
would have affected both readings. The movement between the fifth and sixth reading at 
point 6 was 0.7mm, which is relatively consistent with the pattern of the other readings. 
Importantly, on balance, Im persuaded if the last two readings at point 6 were accurate and 
foundation movement was occurring, then similar movement would have been recorded at 
points 5 and 7 during the last two readings too. I say this due to their location in relation to 
point 6. However, the last two readings at points 5 and 7 only ranged from -0.4mm to 
1.3mm. Overall, I find the loss adjusters conclusions to be persuasive. 
Mr S believes the building is still moving. He says the crack fault line is like an earthquake 
and is shown to be occurring across the full width of the bungalow from the major crack to 
the flank wall, across to Point 6 and then through the Lounge to the opposite flank wall.
The loss adjusters reported 0.5mm external cracks on the left flank wall, and internal cracks 
ranging from 0.5mm to 2mm in the areas Mr S has referred to as a fault line. It reported the 
lounge door was sticking, and there were gaps in the two side windows within the bay. As 
such, its not disputed theres movement at the property. 
However, having carefully considered the arguments made about the readings, on balance, 
Im not persuaded the movement is subsidence or heave related. Mr S hasnt said anything 
that leads me to believe the loss adjusters interpretation of the readings are flawed, or the 
range or pattern of the readings shows ground movement is still ongoing.
2004 re-render
Its not disputed that before Allianzs 2004 repairs, Mr P undertook private works to address 
the damp problem at the property. He appointed a damp proof specialist, lowered the 
perimeter ground levels, removed the render from all the elevations, and inserted a 
chemically injected damp proof course (DPC).
Mr S says Mr P re-rendered the rear and right elevations, and the right-hand side of the front 
elevation up to the porch. He describes this as zone 1. He says Allianz re-rendered the left 
elevation (where it had installed a render system over its structural repairs), and the left-
hand side of the front elevation including the porch. He describes this as zone 2. Mr S 
points towards all the damp issues being in zone 2. However, Allianz says its rendering 
works were limited to the left flank wall, and it didnt do works to the front elevation.
Both parties have pointed towards the repair schedule to support their arguments. Ive seen 
the initial February 2004 schedule. A priced version and an unpriced version were provided 
to Mr P, but the items listed are the same on both versions. Ive also seen an updated 
unpriced schedule, that was provided to him in January 2005.
Mr S says the left elevation is 14m2. All the schedules Ive seen only include rendering and 
paint to 14m2, albeit two coats of each. Therefore, in my view, all these documents support 
Allianz only rendered the left flank wall. The initial schedule, dated 24 February 2004, followed a site meeting on 12 February. Mr S 
says it was agreed during the site meeting, that the rendering to the left flank wall would be 
extended around to the left-hand side of the front elevation. However, if that was the case, 
I consider it likely that the schedule produced shortly afterwards would have accurately 
reflected the arrangement, by the area listed being larger than 14m2.
Mr S also says the loss adjuster agreed to extend the rendering around to the front elevation 
as Mr P had already removed the render from the left flank wall. He points towards the initial 
schedule, which included hacking off 14m2 of render. This item was listed twice. However, 
whilst I accept Mr P saved Allianz some costs, as the existing render would have needed 
removing to facilitate its structural repairs; Mr P needed to remove the render due to the 
damp problem that he was responsible for. Therefore, in my view, it doesnt necessarily 
follow Allianz would have undertaken re-rendering beyond the left flank wall, in lieu of 
hacking off the old render on the left flank wall.
I consider it likely that hacking off was included on the initial schedule by mistake, given it 
wasnt included on the updated schedule. I also consider it likely that it was listed twice in 
error, or because there were two render coats on the property (as noted in some 
correspondence).
Allianz has also highlighted an April 2004 letter from its loss adjusters. This explains Allianz 
will render the left elevation and its rendering will stop at each corner with angle beads, 
allowing Mr Ps own render to continue around the property as necessary. In my view, 
Allianzs letter supports its rendering works were limited to the left flank wall.
Mr S says the commentary in this letter was overtaken by events on site. He points towards 
a variation of works order dated July 2004. This was provided to Mr P in January 2005, with 
the updated schedule. The variation order describes the additional works as Additional 
rendering, structural straps, ceiling repair.
However, the updated schedule still details the rendering as 14m2. When compared with the 
original schedule, the additional items are the bedroom ceiling, damp treatment, structural 
straps, and a batten render system. So, on balance, I consider it likely that the Additional 
rendering comment on the variation order was referring to the batten render system that 
wasnt included on the original schedule. I consider it likely that, if rendering had been 
extended beyond 14m2, the increased area would have been noted on the updated 
schedule.
Ive also seen a complaint letter that Mr P sent to Allianz in November 2004. In this letter, he 
references issues with the render and stop bead to the flank wall. He makes no mention of 
these works also being carried out to the front elevation. Again, in my view, Mr Ps letter 
supports Allianzs rendering works were limited to the left flank wall.
Mr S also points to a photo of the re-rendering works in progress. This photo shows the front 
elevation, with the rendering in progress on the left-hand side, up to and including the porch. 
He says the photo shows the scratch coat and bellmouth stop bead, which provided Mr P 
with a datum line for his own rendering works moving eastwards. He says that Mr Ps 
rendering works hadnt started yet, because it wasnt appropriate to have different 
contractors on site at the same time, being managed by different clients. 
Whilst I accept the photo provided by Mr S shows the re-rendering in progress on the front 
elevation, up to where he says Allianz completed these works on the front elevation, this 
alone doesnt persuade me that Mr Ss and Mr Ps recollections are accurate. The photo 
could have been taken part way through Mr Ps works, and Im not persuaded the other 
information supports what they say. Having carefully considered all the information and arguments presented, on balance, Im 
not persuaded Allianzs re-rendering extended beyond the left flank wall.
Poor previous repairs
Mr S says the cracks have reappeared in the same place as before. He says this is evidence 
of poor workmanship in respect Allianzs 2004 structural repairs to the left flank wall.
Mr P says a certificate of structural adequacy (CSA) wasnt issued by Allianz after the further 
2004 repairs. Mr S says if Allianz is confident that those structural repairs are compliant with 
the relevant regulations and codes, then theres no reason for it not to issue a new CSA. He 
says a retrospective CSA can be issued for less than £400. However, Im unable to make a 
finding on whether a CSA was issued, or on whether one should reasonably be issued 17 
years later. This is because a separate complaint has been referred to Allianz about the 
CSA, and its yet to be considered. But in any event, whether a CSA was issued or not, 
doesnt influence my findings on this part of the complaint. 
Mr S says photos taken during the 2004 works show the structural repairs to the left flank 
wall werent executed correctly, before being covered up with the render system. He says 
they show incomplete brick repairs; incomplete bed reinforcement and resin; insufficient 
fixings to lateral restraint straps; vertical rods fixed to the surface of the brickwork; and 
restraint straps in friable brickwork, which havent stitched together the open joints.
Allianz has accepted that the render system it installed on the left flank wall wasnt compliant 
with good practice, so its offered to cover the cost of removing the battens and installing an 
appropriate render system to this area. Mr S points towards the responses of two builders 
who were asked to quote for the works. In view of the 2004 repair photos, neither builder 
considered the 2004 repairs had been completed correctly and both said the wall should 
have been rebuilt. Both builders declined to quote for installing a new render system 
because they didnt consider such works would resolve the issues. They estimated 
rebuilding the wall would cost between £65,000 and £80,000.
Mr S says that, in 2004, Allianzs contractor recommended the property be demolished and 
rebuilt. So, he doesnt consider it unreasonable for the left flank wall to be demolished and 
rebuilt in order to overcome incomplete structural repairs, and to resolve the damp issues. 
However, Ive reviewed the correspondence from that time, and the recommendation was 
due to the property being poorly constructed, not due to damage caused by subsidence. 
Allianz was quite clear it was only responsible for the subsidence damage, and not for 
remedying pre-existing issues.
Allianz has also highlighted that the 2004 photos may only show a snapshot of the repairs in 
process, and they dont necessarily reflect the completed repairs. Allianz has also noted its 
repairs were limited to the subsidence related movement, and it says theres no evidence 
those repairs have failed given the level monitoring results. Overall, I consider Allianzs 
observations here to be reasonable. 
Mr S is also concerned that the current render system is providing lateral restraint, and once 
its removed, the friable, porous and unstable wall will spread-eagle. Hes also of the view 
that black mould growth will likely be found, and the brickwork will have deteriorated due to 
the level of dampness caused by the render system. However, at this stage, his concerns 
havent been proved. The condition of the wall wont be known until the render system is 
removed.I can only determine the complaint brought to us, based on the information thats available at 
the time of my decision. This service cant leave a case open indefinitely, and nor is it our 
role to act as a claim handler whilst works or investigations are ongoing. 
I havent seen anything at this time that persuades me the structural repairs to the brickwork 
have failed, or that they werent suitable bearing in mind what Allianz confirmed its liability 
was limited to. I also havent seen anything at this time, that would reasonably lead me to 
conclude the wall needs rebuilding due to the previous subsidence or Allianzs structural 
repairs, or due to damp damage since caused by Allianzs render system.
Allianz would like Mr P to take photos of each phase of the works when replacing the render 
system. It says if the suggested black mould or any other repair related defect is a factor, 
then Mr Ps contractor should confirm the adverse findings in writing. I consider Allianzs 
offer to consider future discoveries, once the render system is removed, to be fair. 
Understandably, Mr S is concerned about further delays should further submissions need to 
be made to Allianz. I would expect Allianz to respond promptly. But ultimately, if Mr P isnt 
happy with how Allianz responds, hes free to make a further complaint about that matter.
At this time, Allianz has confirmed that it will cover the full costs relating to the removal of the 
render system on the left flank wall, and the cost of a suitable replacement render system to 
that area. However, neither party has provided costings, so Im unable to decide what the 
settlement should be.
Allianz wants to produce a schedule of works, in addition to Mr P providing quotes. However, 
due to the damp and construction issues at the property, it prefers to cash settle rather than 
undertaking the work. Whilst I understand why Allianz prefers not to do the works, if Mr P 
cant find a builder thats willing to replace the render system Allianz installed, or for an 
amount Allianz is prepared to pay, Allianz will need to do the works. If Allianz cant 
guarantee its work due to issues not related to its subsidence repairs, this can be 
documented in case of future problems or disputes.
Ultimately, if a cash settlement cant be agreed once Allianz has produced a repair schedule, 
or if an agreement cant be reached about the terms of Allianz undertaking the work, a 
further complaint can be made to determine that matter.
Its been highlighted that replacing the render system will affect a new boiler system, thats 
housed in a newly built boiler room adjacent to the left flank wall. If so, it follows that Allianz 
will be responsible for the related costs. Allianz will also be responsible for any alternative 
accommodation costs if the property isnt habitable during the works to its render system, 
and for any storage costs that are required to facilitate those works.
Allianz would like accommodation and storage costs to be agreed in advance. I consider this 
to be reasonable. If an agreement cant be reached about whats required in respect of the 
boiler, alternative accommodation, or storage, a further complaint can be made.
Mr S also says Mr Ps current insurance may be affected if the property is left unoccupied for 
a period. If thats the case, Mr P needs to make those points to Allianz so it can consider its 
position. I cant comment at this stage, given I dont know the period the property will be 
unoccupied for, or how Mr Ps current insurer will respond.  Internal damp
Mr S says Allianzs previous works are the cause of all the damp issues at the property, and 
he points towards the damage in zone 2. Allianz says its rendering works were limited to the 
left flank wall, and it argues that the presence of damp in other areas supports theres an 
underlying damp issue at the property which its not responsible for.
As decided above, Im not persuaded Allianz did all the re-rendering in zone 2. However, Ive 
considered Mr Ss other conclusions; a damp report commissioned by Allianz; and a report 
from a jointly appointed independent third party (which was paid for by Allianz, on the 
recommendation of our investigator).  
Mr S says theres rising damp in the property due to the bridging of the chemically injected 
DPC by the render system on the left flank wall. Allianz accepts the render system wasnt 
compliant with good practice. However, I havent seen that Allianz accepts it bridged the 
DPC, or a report from someone other than Mr S that confirms this to be the case. In my 
view, the other reports simply acknowledge Mr Ss assertions based on the photos hes 
provided of the works in progress.
Allianz has questioned how the photos of the works in progress show the EML (which is part 
of the render system) bridged the DPC. Allianz says the photos dont show where the EML 
was cut back and finished in relation to the ground. I consider Allianzs observation here to 
be reasonable. Based on everything Ive seen, I also consider it likely that Mr P had the 
support of Mr S during Allianzs works. So, I consider there to be a reasonable question 
about why the photos of the alleged issues werent raised with Allianz at the time. 
Mr S also says the bellmouth stop bead has bridged the DPC. He points towards a complaint 
Mr P raised in November 2004. He says the bellmouth stop bead was required to be fitted 
150mm above ground level, and Allianz were notified in the 2004 complaint that it hadnt 
been installed correctly, because the fall in ground level hadnt been taken into account. 
Mr S says the scratch coat and black rendered plinth also bridged the DPC before the 
application of the bellmouth detail.
Ive seen Mr P complained to Allianz in November 2004, that the bellmouth stop bead hadnt 
used the new DPC as a datum level. He said a sloping bead (rather than a stepped bead) 
had been fitted, and this terminated 150mm below the proposed finished ground level. In 
response, Allianz said the bellmouth stop bead had followed the line of the land, 150mm 
above the existing unmade ground level. Allianz also said that aspects relating to the 
bellmouth stop bead were discussed with Mr P on site. 
Its evident that Mr P was unhappy with the position of the bellmouth stop bead in relation to 
the new DPC and his intended external ground level. I also consider Mr P ought reasonably 
to have been aware of the importance of the new DPC not being bridged, given the original 
DPC being bridged was considered to have caused the previous damp issues (as per the 
findings from the installer of the new chemically injected DPC). In my view, his complaint 
shows he understood there to be an issue, but I havent seen he pursued his complaint 
further or rectified the issue himself. 
Mr S points towards a different letter that was date stamped by our service in 2004, and hes 
provided a case reference number. However, our service doesnt retain records indefinitely, 
and Ive not been able to locate a case from the reference number provided. In any event, 
the letter was simply from Mr S to Allianz, about him referring his unpaid fees to the small 
claims court. The letter didnt make any reference to the bellmouth stop bead.I acknowledge that Mr Ps November 2004 complaint letter noted this service had been sent 
a copy. However, nothing has been produced that shows our involvement in that complaint. 
Ive not seen anything that shows Mr P followed up his concerns about the bellmouth stop 
bead. So, I can only reasonably conclude that Mr P accepted Allianzs response reflected 
the on-site discussions, or he chose not to pursue the matter further. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably decide Allianz is responsible if the bellmouth stop bead, or the related 
construction details, have since caused a damp issue.
Mr S also says theres interstitial condensation due to the type of wall construction and the 
omittance of vapour membranes. As I understand it, Mr S considers this to be a dominant 
factor in respect of the damp issues. He says it isnt appropriate to apply a non-compliant 
rendered cladding system to a solid brick wall which has an unventilated and uninsulated 
cavity, preventing the structure from breathing. Hes of the opinion that damp moisture is 
bridging the cavity, via the horizontal battens.
Mr S also says, due to Allianzs delays after the render had been removed from the property, 
it was left exposed to the elements for over a year. He says once the new render had been 
applied on the left flank wall without the benefit of a ventilated cavity, it had no means of 
drying out externally and it therefore had to dry out internally. 
Allianz commissioned a damp survey, and in terms of interstitial condensation, the surveyor 
concluded the damp readings didnt show a correlation between the conditions in the void 
behind the render system and those in the bedroom next to the left flank wall. He noted it 
wasnt certain what level of ventilation was being achieved behind the render system. He 
also noted the highest moisture had travelled was 800mm. 
The surveyor has explained to our investigator, via Allianz, that moisture readings taken from 
the brick structure gave damp readings to the lower wall and dry readings to the upper wall. 
However, he noted damp timber battens were found in both areas. He thought the battens 
were having a significant influence on the voids natural ventilation, which was allowing 
persistent elevated atmospheric moisture levels to develop. He explained the readings 
suggest a strong correlation between the exterior conditions and those in the void, but 
theres no correlation between the void conditions and those in the bedroom. 
On balance, Im more persuaded by the surveyor who conducted the damp survey than the 
theory Mr S has offered. Its accepted theres high moisture levels in the cavity due to the 
high damp readings from the low and high battens. However, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that if those high moisture levels had caused internal damp, then high damp 
readings would have been present in the brick structure at both high and low levels.
Mr S also says theres penetrating dampness due to the detail around the TV aerial bracket, 
and porous render. However, Allianzs damp surveyor noted that if rainwater ingress was a 
significant factor, high moisture levels would have been found in the brick structure in the 
upper wall areas. Again, I consider his conclusions to be reasonable.
Allianzs appointed surveyor also completed an invasive survey and identified defects at the 
base of the wall in respect of the original slate DPC. He thought this was the primary issue. 
He thought the high moisture readings from the lower parts of the wall related to rising 
ground and surface water. Allianz has questioned why Mr P didnt refer the damp issue to the installer of the chemically 
injected DPC, and Ive seen the works came with a 20-year guarantee. Allianz considers this 
would have been the logical step, when the damp started to return. It says such action would 
have clarified whether the DPC works had failed, or whether the DPC had been bridged by 
Allianzs remedial works. I agree with Allianzs observations here. Mr P could have taken 
further steps, which would have helped clarify the cause of the current issues. Given the 
guarantee, I consider Mr P ought reasonably to have contacted the installer of the DPC 
when damp started to reappear (which Mr S estimates to be between 2010 and 2012). 
However, no such action was taken.
Mr S says Allianz used absorbent plaster in the bedroom next to the left flank wall, that isnt 
compliant with the chemically injected DPC. Allianz questions why Mr P didnt raise this at 
the time of the works, or soon after when complaining about other matters. In my view, its 
not clear from the schedules whether the plastering in question was completed by Allianz. 
But in any event, the DPC installer quoted for plastering using a specific plaster type and 
referred to its re-plastering specification. So, on balance, Im persuaded that Mr P ought 
reasonably to have understood the importance of the plaster type, and ensured any 
plastering Allianz undertook complied with his private works. 
The jointly appointed independent surveyor explained there are three potential causes of the 
elevated moisture levels: rising damp from below ground moisture; penetrating damp via an 
external wall; and condensation. In terms of rising damp, he noted the polythene membrane 
to the floor doesnt connect to the DPC, leaving an area for ground moisture to rise through. 
In terms of penetrating damp, he said there doesnt appear to be any significant damage 
which is usually associated with this (such as staining or defective plaster). In terms of 
condensation, he considered this to be a significant factor. He highlighted areas in the 
bedroom, porch, and lounge. He thought these areas were showing typical signs of 
condensation dampness due to being unventilated.
The surveyor concluded that rising damp, penetrating dampness, and condensation are all 
contributing towards the elevated dampness within the property. However, he thought that 
condensation was the dominant problem. He noted the render system to the left flank wall 
hadnt been completed in accordance with best practice. He said this may be contributing 
towards the inherent damp issues and be making the pre-existing dampness worse.
Mr S has argued that both reports support some of his own conclusions, but both also failed 
to consider, and take account of, some issues. He says the slate DPC is irrelevant following 
the chemically injected DPC; and reference to the polythene overlaying the solid concrete 
floor and screed is incorrect as its not a damp proof membrane, which he says would be 
under the screed in accordance with good building practice.
Having carefully considered all the arguments presented, on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Allianzs works are the main cause of the ongoing damp at the property. Mr S has offered his 
own theory about interstitial condensation, but in my view, his theory hasnt been shown to 
be true in the case of Mr Ps property. 
Mr S says the chemically injected DPC solved the previous damp problem. However, Ive not 
seen anything that shows these works were completely successful (such as a report from 
the installer), and Im not persuaded the damp is limited to the areas where Allianz 
completed subsidence repairs.
I also consider it reasonable to place some weight on the actions Mr P took when identifying 
the bellmouth stop bead issue in 2004, or upon first realising the damp was starting to 
reappear (which was some time before contact was made with Allianz).Having said that, its accepted that Allianzs render system on the left flank wall wasnt good 
practice; and as per the independent surveyors report, I accept it may be contributing to the 
damp issues. In view of that report, Allianz has offered to cover a third of the cost of putting 
right the internal damp damage. Given my conclusions above, overall, I consider Allianzs 
offer to be fair and reasonable. Allianz has also agreed to cover the cost of repairing its 
invasive investigations, and I understand Mr P accepted an £850 offer. 
To be clear, Im deciding that Allianz needs to cover a third of the internal damp damage in 
only the rooms next to the left flank wall. I understand these rooms to be the bedroom and 
bathroom. Allianz doesnt need to contribute to putting right damp damage in the porch or 
lounge. Mr S says the bedroom carpet is damaged too. So, I consider Allianz should also 
cover a third of its replacement cost. Apart from replacing the render system on the left
flank wall, Mr P is responsible for resolving the causes of the damp issues.
If alternative accommodation or storage is required to facilitate the internal damp repairs to 
the rooms next to the left flank wall, Allianz should pay a third of these costs.
If the parties cant agree on the scope of works for putting right the internal damp damage or 
the cash settlement, or whether alternative accommodation or storage is required, a new 
complaint can be made. I cant decide those matters here, as no scopes or quotes have 
been produced so far. 
Surveyor fees
Mr S says Mr P was forced to employ the services of a chartered building surveyor to defend 
his position. Generally speaking, if a policyholder seeks their own professional opinion which 
leads to a change in the insurers position, we would expect the insurer to cover the fees the 
policyholder incurred, providing those fees are reasonable. This would usually be a fee for a 
one-off report. However, we generally dont consider an insurer needs to cover the ongoing 
fees a policyholder incurs, if they decide to be professionally represented during their claim 
or complaint. Mr Ps policy doesnt cover such fees unless otherwise agreed, and 
professional representation isnt required to bring a complaint to this service.
Other than offering £150 for delays, Allianz rejected Mr Ps complaint. Allianz sent Mr P its 
final response letter in February 2019. Allianzs letter explained Mr P could submit his own 
specialist report if he wished to dispute its findings, and it confirmed he could refer his 
complaint to our service.
Mr S produced a report in July 2019, and the complaint was referred to our service. Mr Ss 
report was also provided to Allianz, which prompted Allianz to instruct its appointed damp 
surveyor to conduct a detailed moisture survey of the left flank wall. Allianz initiated these 
steps in October 2019, and Mr P agreed to the moisture survey in November 2019. The 
moisture survey was completed in February 2020. In the meantime, Mr S provided two 
further supplementary reports in December 2019 and January 2020. 
Allianz has offered to cover Mr Ss £850 fee for his July 2019 report. I consider this to be fair 
given the July 2019 report prompted the further moisture survey. However, when Allianz 
made the offer in November 2019, it told Mr P it wouldnt be covering any more fees for 
further reports from Mr S, or for his attendance at site meetings.
Mr Ss December 2019 and January 2020 reports werent requested by either Allianz or our 
service. Allianz were already investigating further. Im satisfied that following the July 2019 
report, Mr S had taken on the role of representing Mr P in his complaint, which as noted 
above, isnt a cost I consider Allianz to be responsible for. Mr S went on to attend site during the further moisture survey and the independent survey, 
and hes also provided information to our investigator by way of further reports and emails. 
However, much of the information provided hasnt influenced matters, and/or its been a 
repeat of arguments or information already available to us. 
Given the nature of the issues being considered, and the implications for Mr P, I understand 
why hes engaged the services of a surveyor to represent him. However, any fees Mr S has 
charged Mr P in relation to his continued involvement after the matter was referred to our 
service, isnt something I can reasonably decide Allianz should pay for.
Compensation
I dont doubt the impact the ongoing situation is having on Mr P and his family. Its clear the 
conditions within his property are cause for concern and would be distressing.
However, what Im considering here, are the actions Allianz took on being made aware of 
the further issues, when it was contacted in July 2016. I understand the following to be a 
broad overview of the timeline:
- July 2016  loss adjusters visited
- October 2016  ground and drain investigations
- January 2017  initial moisture survey
- March 2017 to January 2018  level monitoring
- March 2018  follow up moisture survey
- June 2018  Allianz declined any liability
- June 2018 to February 2019  further exchanges
- February 2019  Allianz provided its final response 
Overall, I consider it likely the level monitoring could have started much sooner than it did. In 
my view, eight months following the loss adjusters initial visit is a relatively long period of 
time. I also consider it likely that Allianz could have concluded its findings, after the level 
monitoring was completed, quicker than in five months.
Furthermore, as identified by our investigator when reviewing Allianzs file, it had accepted in 
January 2018 that the render system it installed wasnt good practice. But it wasnt until our 
investigator questioned this point, that Allianz confirmed it was willing to cover the costs of 
rectifying the work.
However, Allianz has also undertaken relatively thorough investigations, covered the cost of 
an independent report, and offered to contribute to the internal repairs based on that report. 
Allianz has also confirmed it will consider further submissions from Mr P if issues relating to 
its previous structural repairs are found when the render system is removed. So, whilst I do 
accept Allianz could have done some things differently, overall, Im persuaded that it has 
endeavoured to treat Mr P fairly since he made contact in July 2016. Ultimately, Ive not 
been persuaded Allianz is responsible for all the issues the property is experiencing.
Our investigator recommended £800 compensation, in total, for how matters were handled 
by Allianz. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, overall, I consider this amount to be fair. 
Therefore, if the £150 offered by Allianz in its February 2019 final response has already 
been paid, a further £650 would be due.Mr S says Mr P has recently received a £1,450 payment from Allianz, which it described as 
£850 for the intrusive investigation repairs and £600 compensation. Hes questioned this 
sum given our investigator recommended £800 compensation. If Mr P accepts my final 
decision, Allianz will need to ensure the correct awards have been paid. 
  
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Mr S, but for the reasons set out above, I only uphold this 
complaint in part. My final decision is Allianz Insurance Plc should:
- cover the cost of replacing the render system on the left flank wall (including costs 
relating to the boiler, if impacted), or undertake these works itself (if an agreement 
cant be reached about the scope of works required, the cash settlement, or the 
terms of Allianz doing the work, a further complaint can be made);
- cover alternative accommodation and storage costs if required due to replacing the 
render system on the left flank wall (costs to be agreed in advance, and if an 
agreement cant be reached about the need for, or cost of, alternative 
accommodation or storage, a further complaint can be made);
- cover 33% of the internal damp repair costs, limited to the rooms next to the left flank 
wall, including 33% of the replacement bedroom carpet (if an agreement cant be 
reached about the scope of works required or the cash settlement, a further 
complaint can be made);
- cover 33% of the alternative accommodation and storage costs if required due to the 
internal damp repairs to the rooms next to the left flank wall (costs to be agreed in 
advance, and if an agreement cant be reached about the need for, or cost of, 
alternative accommodation or storage, a further complaint can be made);
- consider further submissions from Mr P about the adequacy of the previous structural 
repairs, or the condition of the wall due to the damp conditions created by the render 
system (should such issues be found when the render system is removed); 
- pay Mr P £850 to rectify the intrusive investigations, if not yet paid; 
- pay Mr P £850 for Mr Ss July 2019 report, if not yet paid; and
- pay Mr P £800 compensation, in total, as recommended by our investigator.
I make no other awards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman