DRN-2432447
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a Current Account with Tech Pack (CATP) by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in May 2016.
What happened
Mr P took out a fee free account in October 2001.
He upgraded to a fee-paying Current Account Plus in October 2010.
Barclays migrated Mr P to a CATP in May 2016.
Mr P says the CATP was inadequate, he didnt need it and Barclays didnt give him the 
opportunity to close the account.
Barclays says it notified him of the migration to the CATP in advance and told it him after 
that the account change had happened. Barclays says Mr P was aware of the how to close 
the account but did not request to do so.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagrees, so it comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must clarify, as our adjudicator did, that this case is about the sale of the CATP 
only, and if Mr P wishes to complain about the sale of the Current Account Plus, he would 
need to raise a separate complaint with Barclays.
Mr P sent this service several call recordings which I have listened to carefully. I note his 
frustration with the service he appeared to be receiving, but all these calls took place before 
the sale of the CATP.
The only evidence I have of the migration is the copies of the two letters Barclays says it 
sent to Mr P, one before the migration and one after. Mr P says he doesnt recall receiving 
the letters.
Ive looked at the letters carefully and they do seem to have been sent to Mr Ps correct 
address in 2016. Barclays has no record of any letters being returned. And its unusual for 
mail to be sent and not delivered. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr P received at 
least one of the two letters.
I also think the letters are clear that a change is happening, they explain his options, 
including to move a fee free account if he wishes; and the letters tell him what to do if he 
wishes at any time to close his account. In my view, it was then for Mr P to decide what to do 
going forward.
So, although I know Mr P will be disappointed, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong in 
migrating him to a CATP in 2016, and so I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman