DRN-3131344
The complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly declined 
his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W were on holiday when they were offered the chance to win something 
in a competition using a scratch card. They were told theyd won a prize and went to collect 
it, but in fact they attended a sales presentation by a company marketing a holiday club, that 
Ill call Club C. They were told the benefits of Club C membership included cheap holidays 
and flights, and that they would be given a cashback certificate entitling them to claim £5,900 
if they took out membership. The total cost was £5,900 and they paid £2,950 using Mr Ws 
NatWest credit card, and the rest was paid by bank transfer. Although the membership was 
taken out in the names of Mr and Mrs W, as the deposit was paid on Mr Ws credit card, the 
complaint has been brought in his name.
Mr W has said Club C didnt provide what was promised, in particular the cheap holidays 
were expensive, the availability was poor and no cashback was ever received. He has 
explained that he didnt make any use of the membership and, in October 2012, Club C was 
wound up following a petition brought by the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and 
Skills (the Petition). Mr W says either the benefits of Club C membership and the cashback 
scheme were misrepresented or there was a breach of contract, as he didnt get what he 
was promised.
As Mr W used a credit card to pay for half of the membership cost, he asked NatWest to 
refund the full purchase price, as he felt it was jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under s.75 CCA. But NatWest turned down Mr Ws claim. It said that the 
claim had been brought too late as any claim had to be brought within six years of the date 
of sale, but Mr W had first complained in January 2017. That meant he was around eight 
years too late to bring a claim. Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr W brought his 
complaint to our service.
NatWest maintained its position that the complaint had been brought too late, but it also said 
it was unable to trace the credit card payment Mr W had made, as the account was no 
longer open and it was struggling to find information about past transactions. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said that, without evidence a NatWest credit card 
was used, it wouldnt be possible to say NatWest had to answer the complaint.
After this Mr W was able to find an old receipt. It was dated 13 August 2002 and gave a card 
number that related to a NatWest credit card. In light of this NatWest accepted that payment 
was made using one of its cards, but it maintained that the complaint had been brought too 
late.
After the new evidence had been presented, our investigator considered the complaint 
again. She thought, based on the time limits set out in law, Mr W had brought any claim for 
misrepresentation too late. But she also considered any possible claims for breach of 
contract, and thought NatWest needed to consider a breach of contract from 3 October 
2012, when Club C was wound up following the Petition referred to above. NatWest 
disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered again by an ombudsman.
Having considered the complaint, I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I didnt 
think this complaint was one that should have been upheld, so I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I thought that and I invited both parties to respond.
In my provisional decision I noted that Mr W has brought a complaint under s.75 CCA. That 
provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Mr W has said that Club C misrepresented the nature and benefits of the membership as 
well as breaching its agreement. But for s.75 CCA to apply to Mr Ws claim, it needs to be 
shown that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. So I thought it was 
important to first set out what Mr W agreed to, with which business and whether he had any 
cause of action against those businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I 
then looked at whether that is something NatWest needs to consider given the relationships 
between the parties. Finally, if I found NatWest had to consider any claim, I had to think 
about whether it had properly considered that claim.
NatWest had also said that this complaint was brought too late under our rules. In summary, 
our rules say that a consumer can bring a complaint to a business within six years of the 
event happening, or three years of when a consumer realised they had a reason to 
complain. But the rules NatWest referred to set out the time limits within which a consumer 
needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial activity. Here the complaint I 
considered was that NatWest unfairly turned down Mr Ws claim about a regulated credit 
agreement, which it did in 2017. That issue was referred to our service in time.
The agreements
I looked at the available documents to see what Mr W agreed to buy and from which 
business. Unfortunately due to the passage of time it wasnt entirely clear precisely what the 
arrangements were, so I decided what I thought most likely happened based on the 
information available.
I explained that I had seen a number of documents relating to a number of different 
businesses. They included:
 
a Club C Gold Card Membership application dated 13 August 2002 stating that the 
vendor was Business L, the cost was £5,900 and that was broken down into two 
payments of £2,950, one by card and one by bank transfer
Mr Ws credit card statement from September 2002 that shows a payment of 
£2,992.38 to Business L on 13 August 2002
a letter from Business L from August 2002 talking about an agreement with Club C
a letter from Business L from August 2002 explaining that it will issue a RECLAIM 
certificate for £5,900
a reclaim euro certificate for £5,900 from December 2002 issued by Business R
a letter from Business L from August 2002 that explained that Mr and Mrs W were 
entitled to complimentary accommodation and flight vouchers with Business Va letter from Business V from November 2002 stating that Mr and Mrs W didnt 
qualify for a holiday due to its criteria
an email from Business L from August 2002 explaining how Mr W could access the 
Club C website
an email from a travel agent from September 2002 explaining that it was the travel 
agent for Club C
a letter from Business A to Mr and Mrs W dated October 2002 discussing the 
Business A membership bought through Business T
a letter from Club C from October 2002 stating that Mr and Mrs W had Club C 
Sapphire Membership from 23 October 2002 to 20 October 2012 and this was 
marketed by Business T
a SAPPHIRE PACK TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP that talks about Business L and 
Club C
a letter from Club C from December 2003 saying that the annual subscription was 
overdue
From the above, I thought it is most likely that on 13 August 2002 Mr W used his NatWest 
credit card to pay Business L for a number of different things. He obtained membership to 
Club C, was entered into a cashback scheme and was given accommodation and flight 
vouchers from Business V. It is also possible that Mr and Mrs W entered into another 
agreement with Club C or Business T in October 2002, but as I couldnt see that Mr W used 
his NatWest credit card on that occasion, anything purchased then was beyond the scope of 
this decision.
Having seen Mr Ws credit card receipt, I saw that he paid slightly more than the deposit 
price set out on the contract (£2,992.38 instead of £2,950). I wasnt entirely sure why he paid 
more, but I dont think it makes a difference for the purpose of this decision.
What I didnt have is a clear written agreement between Mr W and Business L setting out 
everything agreed and what was paid for. I said this because I thought in August 2002 Mr W 
signed up for Club C membership, cashback and something with Business V, but the only 
document that contains written terms is the SAPPHIRE PACK TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP. 
That makes no mention of the cashback offer or any deal with Business V and, although it 
refers to both Business L and Club C, it appeared to be for a different level of membership 
(sapphire instead of gold). So I needed to consider everything Mr W was told as well as all of 
the other evidence available to work out what the arrangements were between the parties.
I saw that the document titled SAPPHIRE PACK TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP was signed 
by both Mr and Mrs W. Although they applied for GOLD CARD membership, I thought it 
was likely that this document applied to the August 2002 sale. I said that because it is the 
only document that mentions both Club C and Business L and I couldnt see that Business L 
was involved in anything that happened in October 2002. Some extracts from the document 
include:
 
[BUSINESS L] ACT AS MARKETERS FOR [CLUB C].
[CLUB C] ARE EXCLUSIVELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE  REDEMPTION OF THIS 
PROMOTION AND UNDERTAKES TO SUPPLY LUXURY ACCOMMODATION TO 
SLEEP UP TO SIX PERSONS AT SELECTED HIGH QUALITY RESORTS.
YOUR ACCOMMODATION CONSISTS OF TWO WEEKS PER YEAR, YOUR 
INITIAL MEMBERSHIP IS FOR 2 YEARS AND 11 MONTHS . AT THE EXPIRATION 
OF THIS MEMBERSHIP YOU MAY EXERCISE YOUR OPTION TO ENTER INTO A NEW CONTRACT DIRECT WITH [CLUB C] FOR A PERIOD OF SEVEN YEARS 
AND ONE MONTH.
THE ADMINISTRATION FEE WHICH IS CURRENTLY £55 MUST BE RECEIVED 
BY [CLUB C]. THIS MUST BE PAID ANNUALLY FROM YOUR MEMBERSHIP 
START DATE. THE ADMINISTRATION FEE IS ONLY PAID IF YOU INTEND TO 
USE THE HOLIDAYS IN THE FOLLOWING YEAR
MEMBERSHIP CARDS AND PACKS WILL BE DISPATCHED BY REGISTERED 
POST DIRECT TO THE MEMBER WITHIN TWENTY EIGHT DAYS OF RECEIPT 
OF CLEARED FUNDS BY [CLUB C]
THE MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION THAT WE HAVE SIGNED IS A PRIVATE 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN OURSELVES AND [BUSINESS L].
I thought the documents available show that Mr and Mrs W bought membership of Club C, 
and they suggest that was from Business L. And Mr W made payment to Business L, not 
Club C.
Once the membership was started, there was some sort of relationship between Mr and 
Mrs W and Club C, who ran the membership and its benefits. I said that because in 
December 2013 Club C, and not Business L, chased for payment of the membership fee. 
And the terms of membership say the fee must be received by Club C.
The terms of membership state that the application was a private agreement between Mr 
and Mrs W and Business L. So I thought there was a contract between Mr and Mrs W and 
Business L for it to procure membership to Club C. They paid for this partly using Mr Ws 
NatWest credit card and partly using a bank transfer. Membership was arranged as set out 
under the agreement.
I also thought that at the same time Business L was entering into a contract in its own name, 
it was also acting as an agent for Club C. I thought there was a contractual relationship 
between Club C and Mr and Mrs W  once they had paid for membership it was supplied by 
Club C and it provided them all of the benefits of membership. But Mr and Mrs W didnt have 
any dealings with Club C directly, so I thought the only way it could have entered into a 
contract with them was through the use of an agent.
In short, Business L approached Mr and Mrs W, marketed a package of holiday benefits, 
including Club C membership, and took payment from them. But the actual Club C 
membership, and the associated benefits, appeared to be supplied by Club C after 
Business L took payment. So I thought there were two contracts, one between Mr and 
Mrs W and Club C and one between Mr and Mrs W and Business L. Similarly I didnt think 
Business L was supplying Mr and Mrs W with the benefits available under the cashback 
scheme or from Business V, that was done by Business R and Business V. But I thought 
Business L procured Mr and Mrs W entry into the cashback scheme and Business V 
scheme, again acting as those businesses agent. For this package of things, Mr and Mrs W 
paid a total, undivided sum of £5,900 to Business L.
 
In 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills petitioned for a number of 
businesses trading under the name Club Class to be wound up. Ive seen a copy of the 
Petition that was presented to the Court. It names a number of companies that were linked 
with the principal activity of selling membership to Club Class. The Petition alleged that the 
companies were linked by the involvement of the same individuals, but the overall structure 
of the group was difficult to penetrate and that meant the controlling parties had remained 
hidden. The Petition was presented on the basis that Club Class was involved in misleading customers, including making misleading representations about how it could help people out 
of existing timeshare obligations and presenting a complex and possibly insolvent cashback 
scheme. Club Class was wound up by the Court in October 2012. Neither Club C nor 
Business L was named in the Petition, but from what Id seen, I thought Club C was part of 
the Club Class group, albeit that it might not have been used as a trading name by 2011. So 
I thought it was likely that it was one of Club Cs successor businesses that was wound up in 
2012.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt get what theyd been promised by taking out Club C 
membership. And they say Club C was wound up in 2012, so there was a breach of their 
agreement. But I thought it was clear that anything offered by Club C to its members was 
provided by Club C and not Business L. In other words, I couldnt see that Business L could 
be held responsible for a breach of contract due to Club Cs failures. And I didnt think Mr 
and Mrs Ws contract with Business L was breached by Club Class being wound up in 2012. 
I thought the agreement between Business L and Mr and Mrs W, so far as Club C 
membership was concerned, was simply to arrange membership. Its possible Mr and Mrs W 
have a claim for breach of contract against Club C, but for the reasons set out below, I didnt 
think that is something NatWest had to answer. Similarly, I didnt think Business L had 
breached any contract it had with Mr and Mrs W when the cashback wasnt paid or Business 
V didnt provide the holidays expected.
But Mr W has said that Business L told him things about the benefits of Club C membership, 
the cashback scheme and Business V holidays when he decided to take it out. These 
representations may have been false, and its possible that they could have induced Mr and 
Mrs W to enter into an agreement with Business L for the things it provided, as well as with 
the other businesses for the specific benefits. So I considered those representations, and 
whether I thought there was something further that needs to be considered by NatWest.
Were NatWest jointly responsible for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, where a debtor has a claim against a supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the 
creditor. So here, Mr W (the debtor) is asking NatWest (the creditor) to answer his claim (on 
his and his wifes behalf) for misrepresentation and breach of contract over the problems I 
set out above.
In my provisional decision I noted that this doesnt apply to every claim Mr W may have. 
NatWest are only responsible for claims where there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place. This is set out more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there 
have to be arrangements in place so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the 
credit card. In Mr Ws case, he paid Business L directly, so it wasnt in dispute that NatWest 
could be held jointly responsible for any claim of a breach of the contract with Business L or 
of a misrepresentation that led Mr and Mrs W into entering into an agreement with 
Business L.
But I didnt think NatWest had to answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C, 
Business R or Business V. That is because anything supplied by those businesses was 
outside of the arrangements between Mr W, NatWest and Business L. Under the CCA, its 
possible NatWest would have to answer a claim if it could be shown either Club C (or 
Businesses R or V) and Business L were associates (s.184 and s.187 CCA). But nothing Id 
seen made me think they were associates under the Act, nor were Business L mentioned as 
a linked company in the Petition referred to above. It follows I didnt think NatWest needed to 
answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C, Businesses R or V as there wasnt a 
DCS agreement in place.But Mr and Mrs W did enter into an agreement with Business L directly as set out above. 
And I didnt think it was in dispute that there is the right sort of DCS relationship, so NatWest 
could be jointly liable for any claim for Business Ls breach of contract, or for 
misrepresentations made that induced them to enter into the contract with Business L.
Had NatWest properly considered the claims?
NatWest has previously said it wouldnt consider Mr Ws claims as they were brought too 
late. Our investigator agreed with that for the misrepresentation claim, but thought the 
breach of contract claim was brought in time. But for the reasons set out above, I didnt think 
NatWest needed to consider the breach of contract claim, so I didnt need to think about 
whether it was brought in time. Further, having considered the misrepresentation claim, I 
broadly agreed with NatWest that it was brought too late and thought it acted fairly.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 of the Limitation Act (LA) 
or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
Here Mr W brought a like claim against NatWest under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought 
under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr W had six years from the 
date on which the case of action accrued to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So in Mr Ws case, that was when he could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against NatWest. I thought 
that was the date he entered into the agreement to buy the package of things from 
Business L, so 13 August 2002. It was on that date that, on his case, he entered into an 
agreement based on the misrepresentations of Business L. He says, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, he wouldnt have bought the Club C membership. And it 
was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he used his NatWest credit card to pay the 
deposit. It follows, I thought the cause of action accrued on that date, so he had six years 
from then to bring a claim against either Business L or NatWest. But he didnt contact 
NatWest about this until 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA.
I also thought about s.14A LA. It deals with negligence claims and in certain circumstances 
extends the time in which a claim can be brought. It is titled Special time limit for 
negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of 
accrual. In summary, it states that in an action for damages for negligence, a claim must be 
brought either within six years from the date of the cause of action accruing or from three 
years from the date the claimant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the facts about 
the damage that gave rise to a claim, whichever was the later.
I didnt think s.14A LA is of any help to Mr W as it deals with claims involving negligence. 
Having considered the nature of the sale, I didnt think Business L owed Mr and Mrs W the 
duty of care needed to give rise to a claim in negligence. So I didnt think the limitation period 
for Mr W to bring a claim against NatWest can be extended.
 
It followed that I thought NatWest fairly considered the things it needed to when assessing 
the s.75 CCA misrepresentation claim and when it said it was brought too late.
In conclusion, I didnt think there were the right sort of arrangements in place for NatWest to 
be responsible to answer Mr Ws breach of contract claim and I thought he brought his misrepresentation claim too late. It followed, that I thought NatWest acted fairly in turning 
down the claim.
Neither Mr W nor NatWest responded with anything further for me to think about before I 
issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I sympathise with the position in which Mr W has found himself, for the reasons set 
out above I still think NatWest acted fairly in turning down his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman