DRN-3029686
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
loan in 1995. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive looked at all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
There isnt a lot of information available about either the loan Mr B took out or where the 
cover came to be sold. Neither party can tell me whether this was secured borrowing or 
unsecured borrowing. So, I have considered both possibilities. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether it would have been made clear to Mr B 
that the PPI was optional, and he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. I have been 
provided with sample copies of both a secured and unsecured loan application form that 
would have been used by Nationwide at the point of this PPI sale. I can see from both forms 
that PPI is set out as a separate financial product and is referred to in both instances as 
optional. It follows then that I think the cover would have been presented as optional by the 
person selling cover to Mr B. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Thats because I havent seen anything to suggest 
Nationwide took account of Mr Bs personal circumstances before it recommended PPI. So, 
Nationwide had to give him enough information about the cover so Mr B could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. 
I accept its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr B wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I must look at 
what Mr B would have been likely to do if the sale had proceeded as it should have done. 
So, if the borrowing was secured on his property, I can see Mr Bs loan repayments would 
have been covered for up to 24 months if he was off sick from work. And if the borrowing 
was unsecured, he could have been covered for the full term of the loan. If hed been made 
redundant, hed have been covered for 12 months regardless of whether the loan was 
secured or unsecured. 
I understand Mr B had less than six months sick pay from his employer if he was out of work. 
He had some savings of around £1,000. So, it looks to me as though the cover would have 
lasted for longer than Mr Bs existing means at what would have no doubt been a difficult 
time for him if he was out of work. I understand Mr B said he was entitled to a death in 
service payment. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death, and 
not if he was off sick or if he lost his job. 
I understand Mr B was in good health when the cover was sold. So, I cant say he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Contrary to 
the submissions made by Mr Bs representative, there were no additional restrictions around 
back or mental health problems. I havent seen anything unusual about his employment 
circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
Those representing Mr B believed Mr B had been sold a single premium policy and he had 
to pay interest on the cost of his premiums. However, the evidence Ive seen suggests this 
was a regular premium policy, so there were no interest charges and it could have been 
cancelled at any time without financial penalty. 
So, with all these things in mind, I dont think Mr B would have declined the PPI even if 
Nationwide had given him more or better information about it. 
Mr Bs representative also raised several what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman