DRN-3726930
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) will not refund payments she says she 
made to a fraudulent investments trading company.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Ms B says she has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.  She says 
she thought she was making several payments to a legitimate investments trading company, 
which I will refer to as Company I in this decision.  Ms Bs payments were made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as Merchant W.  The payments were made using Ms 
Bs HSBC Visa debit card and were for the following amounts:
Date Merchant Amount
25 June 2020 Merchant W £1,010.01
26 June 2020 Merchant W £1,010.00
29 June 2020 Merchant W £550.00
21 September 2020 Merchant W £1,860.00
5 October 2020 Merchant W £2,000.00
Ms B raised the above with HSBC asking it to refund the money she lost.  As this did not 
happen, she raised a complaint which she referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Ms Bs complaint and did not uphold it.  As Ms B did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Ms B).
Based on the evidence before me, it appears that the merchant Ms B made her payments to 
(Merchant W) was a cryptocurrency exchange.  The service Merchant W provided Ms B was 
the purchase of cryptocurrency.  Because of this, if HSBC had raised a chargeback claim  I 
am persuaded it would have likely been unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged 
scammer (in this case, Company I) were not a party to the card payments, so Ms B had no 
valid claim against the legitimate merchant (Merchant W) she paid; this company provided 
the service as intended, which was to purchase cryptocurrency.  The subsequent 
conversion/transfer of the funds would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim.
It follows then that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably by not raising a chargeback on Ms Bs 
behalf, as Merchant W would have likely been able to defend any claim successfully.
I acknowledge the point Ms B raises that although she authorised the payments, she did not 
know she was being scammed at the time.  However, this point makes no difference to what 
the likely outcome would have been had HSBC raised a chargeback  for reasons I have 
already given.
Ms B argues that HSBC should have stopped her payments as they were unusual for her 
account.  Having considered the amounts involved and pattern of the payments, I am unable 
to agree with Ms B.  I do not find the payments so unusual or out-of-character that HSBC 
ought to have intervened and questioned Ms B before releasing them.  Nor do I find there 
are any other reasons as to why HSBC should have stopped the payments, such as, for 
example, regulatory warnings published about Merchant W.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman