DRN-2864029
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him. He also says 
the interest on the loan was very high and when he applied for the loan, he was led to 
believe it had a six-month term.
What happened
L2G lent Mr E a loan for £500 repayable over 18 monthly instalments of £114.28. By the end 
of the loan, Mr E would have repaid over £2,000 towards the loan. When he complained to 
L2G it didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr E referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that L2G was wrong to lend to 
Mr E as it should have seen that hed struggle to repay the loan. L2G disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that L2G should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to say that L2G was required to establish whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I have taken these factors into account when 
thinking about Mr Es complaint.
This was a high interest loan and by its nature, its interest rate is higher than a mainstream 
bank. There is no cap on the interest rate a lender like L2G can charge on its product and 
while I understand that Mr E feels the interest rate was too high, Im mindful that he signed 
an agreement which stated the amount being borrowed and the interest that would be 
charged on that borrowing. That agreement also had the term of the loan and what Mr Es 
monthly repayments would be. Given this, I think Mr E had sufficient information about the 
loan, its term and associated charges. I havent seen evidence to show L2G acted unfairly in 
relation to these issues.
Turning to the lending decision. L2G provided evidence to show that Mr E declared £1,600 
as his monthly income as only £153 for his living costs and credit commitment. L2G says it 
verified his income using an online tool and estimated his living costs through the figures 
from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). L2G worked out that Mr Es income was around 
£840 and his living costs including credit commitments were around £565.
I think the results of L2Gs checks here were concerning, the income it verified was almost 
half of what it says Mr E declared and the expenses were also significantly more than Mr E 
had declared. I think Mr Es income was low and L2G ought to have known that a consumer 
may struggle to repay a loan from a low income. Also, the result of the credit search showed 
that Mr E was over the credit limit on his active credit card. Taking these factors together, I 
think L2G should have taken its checks further and as it didnt do that, I dont think it did 
enough before lending.
Im aware that Mr E provided copies of his bank statements to L2G after he raised his 
complaint and so L2G would have seen that Mr E was borrowing from three other high cost 
lenders. Mr Es average income over two-month bank statement period was around £914 
and he was repaying more than a third of that income to unsecured credit. So had L2G 
carried out further checks, it would have confirmed that Mr E was likely to struggle to repay 
the loan and as a responsible lender wouldnt have lent.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr E, L2G should;
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Mr E as payments towards the capital amount of £500,
if Mr E has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, L2G should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr E,
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Es credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as stated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman