DRN-3237825
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined his motor insurance claim 
after sending him a cheque as settlement.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat everything here. Instead 
Ill provide an overview of the key events, and then Ill focus on giving my decision and the 
reasons for it. 
In May 2021 Mr A made a claim under his motor insurance policy after his brakes failed 
whilst he was travelling downhill, causing him to collide with a wall. 
AXA logged the claim and moved Mr As vehicle into storage. The storage facility inspected 
the vehicle and AXA also arranged for an independent engineer to carry out an inspection. 
On 1 June 2021 AXA wrote to Mr A to let him know it was paying him £7,500 minus his £150 
excess to settle the claim. Mr A contacted AXA to decline the settlement; he explained that 
hed never discussed this with anybody or agreed to it. AXA agreed to cancel the payment 
and look into the claim again.
On 24 June 2021 AXA spoke to Mr A to let him know his claim had in fact been declined. It 
said that the accident was caused by faulty brakes on his vehicle, which was excluded under 
his policy as a mechanical failure. Mr A raised a complaint as he believed his claim has been 
accepted as hed previously been sent a payment for it. He also didnt agree with the reason 
the claim had been declined  as he said the part which the engineer had said caused the 
mechanical failure is a non-serviceable part. Mr A also highlighted the fact that the policy 
says that tyres are also excluded under the policy, unless they cause an accident. Mr A has 
questioned why the mechanical failure, which caused an accident, isnt covered.
AXA looked into Mr As complaint. It accepted that it shouldnt have sent Mr A the claim 
settlement payment  but it explained this was caused by a human error. It paid Mr A £250 
compensation to apologise for the confusion this case. AXA didnt uphold the part of the 
complaint about the declined claim  and it again reiterated that the claim was fairly declined 
as mechanical failure is excluded under Mr As policy. As Mr A didnt agree with this, he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought AXA 
had fairly identified that it made an error with prematurely sending Mr A a payment for his 
claim. She also thought the claim had been declined fairly and in line with the terms of the 
policy. Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision as the final stage in our process. 
I should note that since Mr A referred his complaint to this service, hes raised further 
complaint points about the way AXA looked after his vehicle whilst it was in storage. As this 
hasnt been raised with AXA yet, so it hasnt had a chance to respond to that point, I havent 
considered it here. Mr A will need to make a separate complaint to AXA in the first instance, 
which he can refer to this service if he still needs to after AXA responds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr A but I agree with the outcome our investigator 
reached, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
- Its clear that AXA got things wrong when it sent Mr A a letter explaining that it was 
sending him the claim settlement, followed by a cheque the next day. The letter 
refers to Mr A having already discussed this with AXA, and agreeing, which Mr A 
says he didnt. As agreeing a total loss valuation is usually a longer process than the 
insurer simply settling the claim, Im persuaded that this was more likely an 
administrative error, as opposed to AXA having accepted Mr As claim and deciding 
to pay out immediately. I do think this couldve been avoided if AXA had taken more 
care with the handling of Mr As claim, particularly the engineers report, which AXA 
says it mistook as an instruction to pay the claim. But I think that the £250 AXA has 
paid Mr A adequately reflects the inconvenience this caused.  
- Ive reviewed the two engineers reports and its clear to me from them  as well as 
from Mr As own testimony  that there was a problem with the brakes on his vehicle 
which caused it to collide with the wall. Mr A explained that the brake pedal could be 
pushed all the way to the floor without the brakes engaging, and one of the reports 
says brake fluid contaminated and possible fluid leaking from master cylinder, 
limited pedal resistance. So Im satisfied that there was a mechanical fault with the 
brakes on Mr As vehicle  and whilst I know its frustrating as Mr A couldnt 
necessarily have prevented this  that doesnt mean I can overlook this fact. 
- Ive gone on to consider what the mechanical failure means for the declined claim, so 
that I can decide whether AXA has acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. 
Having looked at the policy document I can see they state the following:
You are not covered for the following: 
Loss of use, loss of value, wear and tear, mechanical 
or electrical failure, breakdowns or breakages.
- So having considered the information Ive seen supporting the fact that Mr As car 
had a mechanical fault, in conjunction with the policy document, I dont think AXA 
has unfairly declined Mr As claim.
I do realise my findings will be disappointing for Mr A because its clear he feels very 
strongly about his complaint. But I hope he understands the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sam WadeOmbudsman