DRN-2193534
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr N have complained about the service they received from their insurance 
broker, Reid Briggs and Co Ltd (Reid Briggs), in relation to their purchase of a commercial 
insurance policy. 
Theyre unhappy that Reid Briggs failed to notify the underwriter about a claim the previous 
owner made for landslip which resulted in their policy being avoided by the insurer.
 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr N contacted Reid Briggs in 2017  through a representative  to enquire about 
taking over the existing policy at the property as they were in the process of buying it. They 
specifically asked if the current policy included cover for damage caused by the cliffs behind 
the property. Reid Briggs advised it wasnt possible to transfer the policy but said it could 
seek a quotation for them to start their own policy.
Mrs A and Mr N didnt contact Reid Briggs again until December 2018  at which point their 
purchase had completed so they needed immediate cover. Reid Briggs approached the 
same insurer who covered the previous owner  but that insurer wouldnt provide flood cover 
 which Mrs A and Mr N required. Reid Briggs arranged cover for Mrs A and Mr N, through a 
different insurer, which included both flood cover and cover for damage caused by landslip.
Mrs A and Mr N made a claim to their insurer for damage caused by a rockfall on 
13 December 2018. The insurer initially accepted the claim, but later discovered there had 
been a previous claim for damage caused by a landslip in 2013. It said Mrs A and Mr N were 
aware of this claim yet failed to declare it when completing their statement of fact through 
Reid Briggs. The insurer said it would not have offered a policy if it was made aware of the 
previous claim. So, it avoided Mrs A and Mr Ns policy and has asked them to repay around 
£10,000 to cover its outlay on the claim.
Mrs A and Mr N have argued that they told Reid Briggs about the previous owners claim. 
Theyve also said it would have been aware of the claim as it was the broker for the previous 
owners policy too. Theyve said they made it clear in 2017 that cover for landslip was 
important, so they feel responsibility for notifying the insurer should rest with Reid Briggs.
Reid Briggs argues that each risk is assessed on an individual basis and that it is the clients 
(in this case Mrs A and Mr Ns) responsibility to disclose all relevant and material information 
 which is set out in its Terms of Business. It says Mrs A and Mr N were sent a copy of the 
statement of fact along with a message to check and agree on all aspects of cover. It says 
Mrs A and Mr N called back to correct an error on the statement of fact about the presence 
of a basement, but that they didnt correct the answer to the question regarding previous 
claims for landslip.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs A and Mr Ns complaint. She said that as this was a 
commercial insurance policy, Mrs A and Mr N had a duty to tell the insurer everything
they knew or ought to have known that might affect the insurers decision to offer cover. She 
said they failed to do this by not amending the answer to the landslip question when they 
received the statement of fact. However, she also felt that Reid Briggs also had a duty to 
Mrs A and Mr N, as the experts they relied on to arrange their insurance. She said 
Reid Briggs was clearly aware of the previous claim, so it should have either provided the 
statement of fact with the landslip question pre-answered in the positive or made them 
aware that the answer they had given to that question was incorrect.
Our investigator then considered what would have happened had Reid Briggs not made this 
error. She said she didnt think it was likely that Mrs A and Mr N could have obtained the 
cover they were seeking elsewhere, in the short timeframe they required it. So, she didnt 
think it would be fair to direct Reid Briggs to pay the claim. But she felt it should pay £250 
compensation to them for the distress they experienced going through the claims process 
and having the policy avoided.
Mrs A and Mr N didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to avoid the policy was made by the underwriter and is the subject of another 
complaint. So, in this case, Im only considering the actions of Reid Briggs  and not the 
underwriters decision to avoid the policy. But I will refer below to the requirements of the 
relevant law  as I think it is important to the crux of the complaint.
This complaint relates to a commercial insurance policy. This means the relevant law that 
applies is the Insurance Act 2015. This states that commercial policyholders have a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means they 
have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
Mrs A and Mr N were aware of the claim made, in 2013, by the previous owner. So, they had 
a duty to tell their insurer about this when applying for their policy. But the statement of fact 
provided to them by Reid Briggs answered the question about previous claims for landslip as 
no. And although Mrs A and Mr N didnt see this until after the policy was incepted, they 
had the opportunity to correct it  as they did with a separate, unrelated question  but they 
failed to do so. 
Mrs A and Mr N have argued that they were relying on Reid Briggs as an expert in the field 
of insurance. They feel Reid Briggs should have realised the answer was incorrect as it 
knew about the previous claim. They feel Reid Briggs ought to have been responsible for 
making sure the correct answer was reported to the insurer.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs A and Mr Ns argument. As their broker, Reid Briggs owed 
Mrs A and Mr N duty of reasonable care and skill. As the expert, Reid Briggs would fully 
understand the importance of the questions on the statement of fact. And as it was the 
broker in 2013, when the previous owner made the claim, it was clearly aware that the 
property had previously suffered from damage caused by a rockfall/landslip. Despite this, Reid Briggs sent Mrs A and Mr N a statement of fact with the landslip question 
pre-answered incorrectly. It also didnt notify them, upon receipt, that they had answered the 
landslip question incorrectly. So, I think Reid Briggs failed to provide an appropriate level of 
service to Mrs A and Mr N  taking into account the particular circumstances of their claim.
This means that, as our investigator did, I need to consider what would have happened if 
Reid Briggs had done what it should have at the time. This is important because Mrs A and 
Mr N want Reid Briggs to pay the cost of their claim. But I would only expect it to do this if I 
was satisfied that, without Reid Briggs error, Mrs A and Mr N would have had a policy which 
met their requirements and covered the loss at the time it happened.
If Reid Briggs had ensured that Mrs A and Mr N answered the question about previous 
claims for damage caused by landslip correctly, the insurer states it would not have provided 
a policy at all. And Reid Briggs has explained that its virtually certain it would have been 
unable to arrange a suitable policy, with any of the other insurers on its panel, either. It says 
a subsequent attempt to place cover for the property in 2019, with a full declaration of the 
facts, resulted in no suitable quotes from a wide variety of markets. It said it could only 
obtain a quote for a very limited perils policy  which would not have met Mrs A and Mr Ns 
needs.
It is possible that Mrs A and Mr N could have arranged a policy through another broker. But 
taking into account the risks associated with their property and their particular requirements 
for cover, I think its very unlikely they would have been able to arrange a suitable policy 
before the insured event took place  one week after inception of the policy they did take 
out. And Mrs A and Mr N havent provided any evidence to suggest that they could have 
done. 
This means that even if Reid Briggs did everything it should have done, its most likely Mrs A 
and Mr N would not have had appropriate cover at the time of claim. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Reid Briggs to cover the 
cost of the claim.
I have also considered the distress and frustration Mrs A and Mr N have been caused as a 
result of Reid Briggs error. I think the £250 recommended by our investigator is fair in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have recommended had she not already done 
so.
Putting things right
To fairly resolve the complaint, Reid Briggs and Co Ltd should pay Mrs A and Mr N £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs A and Mr Ns complaint in part.
Reid Briggs and Co Ltd must put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman