DRN-2605137
The complaint
Miss Z is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys response to her complaint after she fell 
victim to a scam. It declined to reimburse the money she lost after being tricked into sending 
£53,500 to an account controlled by a fraudster. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 February 2021. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out in
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
In October 2019 Miss Z was in the process of purchasing an apartment which she intended
to rent out. She was in regular contact with her solicitor, and the sale became particularly
time pressured as Miss Z and her partner were beyond the initial agreed deadline for paying
the £53,500 deposit on the property, due to a delay in receiving funds via a remortgage. This
meant that Miss Zs solicitor was regularly sending her emails asking her to make the
necessary payment as quickly as possible so as not to risk losing the property.
At the end of October, the 8 November was proposed as an agreed date for exchange. On 4
November Miss Z emailed her solicitor to reassure her things were continuing to progress
and that she hoped to have received the remortgage funds by 8 November, which would
enable them to pay the deposit and exchange. But Miss Z asked whether, if the release of
the remortgage funds was delayed, she could pay £20,000 (which was pretty much all her
and her partners savings) and then the remaining amount a few days afterwards.
Miss Zs solicitor replied, explaining that the sellers solicitor had confirmed the seller
expected a payment of £20,000 on exchange, with a further payment of £33,500 on or
before 12 November. She told Miss Z that if she agreed, the following would need to be
added to the contract
Deposit £20,000 on exchange with £33,500 to follow on or before 12 November. If the 
Buyer fails to make payment of the £33,500 by 12 November the Seller reserves the right to 
deem the Agreement breached by the Buyer with all monies paid to that date (including all
deposits) being retained by the Seller.
Miss Zs solicitor asked her to confirm whether she was happy to proceed with the exchange
on this basis, if she was unable to pay £53,500 by 8 November.
On 7 November Miss Z sent evidence to her solicitor from a different bank to show that the
remortgage was almost complete. Unfortunately, the response Miss Z received to this email
was from a fraudster, who had somehow managed to start impersonating Miss Zs solicitor.
The fraudster told Miss Z that the evidence was fair enough but that Miss Z should go
ahead and pay £20,000 today to avoid any potential delays (presumably in making the
payment) on 8 November. Miss Z was not surprised to receive this email given the amount
of contact shed received from her genuine solicitor about paying the deposit as soon as
possible, and so she responded asking for the relevant bank account details. The fraudster
gave her account details which didnt belong to the solicitor.
Miss Z initially made two payments of £10,000 to the fraudster on 7 November 2019. Miss Z
has explained the payment of £20,000 was paid in two instalments because the maximum
she believed she could transfer in one go via online banking was £10,000.
Miss Z received the funds from the remortgage (£55,122.95) on 8 November 2019. She then
proceeded to pay the rest of the deposit in 4 payments on 11 November 2019 (three
payments of £10,000 and one payment of £3,500) reflecting her understanding of the
payment limits.
It wasnt until 18 November 2019 that Miss Z realised shed fallen victim to a scam. At that
point Miss Z noticed that the email from the fraudster contained one different digit to the
genuine solicitors email  an i rather than an l.
Miss Z notified Nationwide that day. Nationwide contacted the recipient bank to try and
recover the funds but unfortunately no funds remained. Miss Z complained to Nationwide.
She was aware of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM code) and believed
she was entitled to be refunded for the money that shed lost.
Nationwide didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think it should reimburse Miss Z under the
CRM Code. In its final response Nationwide explained that at the time Miss Z made the
payments to the fraudster she was shown tailored warnings which were designed to prevent
a scam. It also explained to Miss Z that faster payments offered no protection  that they are
like cash payments - and suggested making future purchases with a debit or credit card,
given they do offer a level of protection.
Miss Z remained unhappy with Nationwides position and so she referred her complaint to
our service. She explained that at the time she made the payments she felt under pressure
as the seller was ready to pull out given the delay in paying the deposit. She acknowledged
Nationwide had sent her a copy of the Little Book of Scams after the scam, but she
explained this wouldve been more useful prior to the scam occurring.
Miss Z also told us shed been badly affected by the scam  suffering with anxiety and
insomnia, and that shed been prescribed medication to control her symptoms. As a result of
the scam shed lost the property purchase, her partner and she had lost their life savings,
lost the reservation fee of £2,500 and she says she couldnt afford Christmas presents for
their daughter.
We asked Nationwide for its submissions.
It explained that as it had warnings in place to try to protect her from this type of scam it
wasnt liable for her loss. It had considered whether it ought to reimburse Miss Z under the
provisions of the CRM Code and didnt think it did. That was on the basis it believed Miss Z
had ignored effective warnings and so hadnt met her requisite level of care.
An investigator looked into Miss Zs complaint and upheld it. She didnt think the warning
wouldve been impactful in the specific circumstances of the case and so Nationwide
shouldnt have decided not to reimburse Miss Z. She also felt that given the nature of the
payments, Nationwide ought to have contacted Miss Z to check she wasnt at risk of financial
harm - and had it done so, she believed the scam couldve been prevented.
In response to the view, Nationwide asked us for further information about the scam. It
explained it wanted to get a better picture of:
the communication between the genuine solicitor and the fraudster; andwhy Miss Z believed she was led to believe she was paying the same organisation.
And so it asked to see copies of the emails between Miss Z and her genuine solicitor, and
Miss Z and the fraudster.
The investigator shared this evidence with Nationwide. Nationwide subsequently disagreed
with the view. In summary it said it has provided a clear warning to the customer about the
specific scam risk which subsequently materialised, and recommended an action which, if
taken, wouldve prevented the scam. As a result, it clearly satisfied the requirements of an
Effective Warning set out in the CRM Code and Miss Z simply ignored the warning.
Therefore it wasnt fair that it should be held responsible for her loss.
It made the following key points in support of its view which Ive separated into Nationwides
thoughts on the intent of the CRM Code, Effective Warnings, whether Miss Z had a
reasonable basis belief she was making a legitimate payment, and out of character and
unusual transactions.
Nationwides key points in response to the view
The intent of the CRM Code
The CRM Code has the following overarching objectives:
(1) to reduce the occurrence of APP scams;
(2) to increase the proportion of Customers protected from the impact of APP scams,
both through reimbursement and the reduction of APP scams;
(3) to minimise disruption to legitimate Payment Journeys
At the outset the CRM Code therefore recognises a balance between the desire to
reduce the incidence of APP scams and minimising disruption to the millions of
legitimate payments made by the signatory Payment Service Providers (PSPs) each
day. This is important as it implicitly recognises that the objective of the Code is not
to prevent every scam occurring or to unduly disrupt legitimate payment journeys.
Reimbursement of customers is only one way in which the CRM Code seeks to
protect customers from the impact of APP scams. Since the introduction of the CRM
Code (and in recent years generally), Nationwide (and other PSPs) have made
significant improvements to their fraud detection and warnings systems, resulting in
substantial numbers of potential scams being stopped before monies were lost.
It notes that the view says Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm
should reimburse a customer who is victim of an APP scam (like Miss Z) except in
limited circumstances but that is not what the Code states or intends. Whilst it
accepts that R1 is drafted from the perspective of the PSP being liable unless an
exception is applied, it cannot be intended to alter the balance of the three
overarching objectives, which reflects the reality that for payments systems to
properly enable customers, payment journeys should not be made overly complex
and nor should large numbers of payments be stopped as a matter of course.
Effective warnings
Whilst a degree of specificity in the warnings is required, Effective Warnings are not
expected to be tailored to the precise circumstances of the customer and the
payment. The warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the
APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified and tailored to
the customer type and the APP scam risk identified, not the scam itself.The warning was effective, in accordance with SF1(2) of the Code, for the following
reasons:
 The warning was given during the payment journey, before the payments were
authorised
 It was specific, risk-based and tailored to the APP scam type which customers who
believe they are paying a bill, invoice or monies for a property sale face - it accurately
reflected the situation Miss Z was in. Despite this, whether or not the warning was
applicable to her precise circumstances is not a sustainable basis on which the
warning can be judged to be effective or not.
 The warning enables a customer to understand what action they should take to
avoid the risk of fraud;
 The warnings are understandable and clear; and
 The warnings are impactful - they are concise but contain clear information about
the risks the customer faces and what they should do to avoid those risks, in short
sentences, which the customer should easily understand.
The warning Miss Z received was direct and specific:
 The bold heading to the warning asked Have you double-checked these bank
details with the payee directly? Miss Z would immediately have been aware that she
had not double checked the details  and that she should do so. She chose not to do
so.
 The first sentence in the body of the warning is again specific to her
circumstances:
Scammers pose as genuine organisations and trick people to transfer money to
fraudulent accounts. That is exactly what happened in this case and should have
reinforced the point in bold above.
 The warning continues: If these bank details are new, or have recently changed,
give the payee a call to double-check them. Always use the number on their official
website. Here the account details were new to Miss Z, so again this should have
reinforced the key message.
 There was a very clear warning regarding the consequences of proceeding
without heeding this advice: Remember, youll lose your money if you agree to
transfer money upfront for a deposit, item, or service and it doesnt work out.
Reasonable basis for belief
What is reasonable in the circumstances depends in part on the context in which the
events took place. A key part of that context is the information given to Miss Z by her
solicitor. The solicitors email of 5 November 2019 (before the payments were made)
contained the following warning: Please note we have been made aware that
fraudsters have attempted to persuade a client to send funds to another account. We
will never change our bank details and will not provide those details in an open email.
Please check with us directly by phone or use the Safebuyer Scheme before sending
us any monies as we will not be responsible for any lost funds.
Miss Z should therefore have been aware of the possibility of precisely the scam
which occurred, and been highly vigilant during the payment process.
This specific warning also supported the effective warning given in the payment
process, as set out above, as it was entirely consistent with it.
The change in email address is subtle, but given the repeated warnings which had
been provided to Miss Z, she should have been extra vigilant and examined theemail in depth.
The change in the email address is also important because it confirms that the real
solicitors email account wasnt compromised. Nationwide has confirmed that Miss
Zs email address was included in a 2018 data compromise of email addresses, user
names and passwords for a fitness app. Therefore, it appears likely to Nationwide
that Miss Z used the same password for her email account and the app so the
compromise of the fitness app led to an unauthorised access to her personal email.
At the time of the breach, the fitness app sent out this advice to all affected
customers, advising them to change their passwords linked to their accounts. Its
more likely than not Miss Z didnt take the suggested action and if she had the scam
would most likely not have happened. And even if she had changed her password
promptly, Miss Z wouldve been aware her email account had been compromised
and shouldve been on heightened alert, especially when considering the warnings
she received from Nationwide and her solicitor.
Out of character and unusual transactions
We have failed to take into account that the payments were for a deposit for a house.
It is not at all unusual for our customers to make occasional (entirely legitimate)
payments connected with property transactions in this way. Miss Z correctly informed
Nationwide that the payment was for a bill, invoice or property sale, which is entirely
consistent with her behaviour.
Our view that it would be reasonable to disrupt these payments would mean that
Nationwide should intervene in all situations where a property deposit is being paid in
this way. That would be a significant burden (and cost) for Nationwide, and the
disruption could potentially cause detriment for customers. There is nothing in the
CRM Code that suggests a written warning is insufficient and there is no mention in
the CRM Code of a requirement for outbound calling.
Finally, it notes the information which we believe would have been conveyed to Miss
Z by telephone, had it intervened before processing the payment, is precisely that
which Nationwide provided in the warning, and which Miss Z ignored. It doesnt
agree that conveying the information by a different method would have resulted in
Miss Z telephoning her solicitors to check.
We shared the substance of Nationwides submissions with Miss Z who has told us the
following:
Miss Z did see the warnings and did read them carefully, but as she was already
corresponding with the solicitors on a regular basis she didnt think the warning
applied to her situation; at no point did she receive a random, unexpected email
asking her to transfer money to new details.
Her genuine solicitor had been regularly emailing her to find out when shed be
paying the deposit and she felt under pressure to make the payment as soon as she
could to prevent the sale falling through  they were already outside of the 30 day
payment period  so it came as no surprise to receive another email asking for a
payment to be made.
Miss Z explained that she'd thought about it all for so long and whether she couldve
done things differently. But she satisfied herself that the email had arrived in agenuine email chain, there were no red flags, the tone of voice was the same, the
signature was the same etc. Miss Z has said that she was the one driving everything
in her head  she was not sent a random email containing bank details, asking for
money. It was Miss Z that had asked for those details and it was her that was in
control.
The emails from the fraudster were sent to Miss Z, her partner and the sales
manager and none of them realised the email wasnt genuine
Miss Z did read the disclaimer at the foot of the genuine solicitors emails the first
time she saw it. She didnt read the disclaimer everyday  instead her eye was drawn
to the facts within the body of the email
It was make or break whether the sale of the property would be completed  Miss Z
felt under pressure due to the time constraint
Miss Z has evidence that her email account wasnt compromised.
Miss Z accepted the investigators view but Nationwide has asked for an ombudsman to
consider the complaint. The case has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model for Authorised Push Payment
Scams (the CRM Code)  a voluntary code of practice which Nationwide has signed up to
and committed to follow. And I have thought carefully about how the CRM Code applies to 
the payments Miss Z made.
The CRM Code
The CRM Code is a voluntary code issued by the Lending Standards Board in May 2019
following development and consultation by the APP Scams Steering Group - a group
established in February 2018 by the Payment Systems Regulator and made up of
representatives from the payment industry and consumer organisations, as well as
observers from regulators, government and law enforcement.
The September 2018 APP Steering Group Draft Reimbursement Model Code ConsultationPaper explained the background to, and aims of, the CRM Code:
1.2. In September 2016, the consumer body Which? submitted a super-complaint to the
Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) about APP scams, raising its concerns that
victims do not have enough protection. The PSR investigated the issue and the
concerns raised, and in December 2016 found that more needed to be done to tackle
APP scams. The PSR and industry undertook further work, and in November 2017,
the PSR published the findings and outcome of this work. This included a
consultation on the introduction of a Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). The
model sets out the circumstances in which payment service providers (firms) would
be responsible for reimbursing APP scam victims who have acted appropriately. In
February 2018, after taking the consultation responses into account, the PSR
considered a CRM  formalised into a voluntary industry code of good practice  is
an effective way to reduce the occurrence of APP scams and the devastating harm
they cause consumers.

1.5 The main aim of the Code is to reduce the occurrence of APP scams from happening
in the first place, and lessen the impact these crimes have on consumers,
microenterprises and small charities (referred to as customers  see paragraph
3.24). The steering group considers that the draft code should achieve this. It
incorporates existing good industry practice for preventing APP scams and helping
these customers protect themselves from these crimes, while ensuring customers
remain vigilant.

3.10 The code should incentivise the parties involved to take action to prevent and
respond to APP scams where they are best placed to do so. Firms should be
incentivised to implement and use measures that effectively prevent and assist with
the response to APP scams, and customers should be incentivised to remain vigilant.
This should help minimise the number of APP scams as more is done to stop them
happening in the first place. When APP scams do happen, reimbursing the victims 
where they could not have reasonably protected themselves  reduces the customer
harm.
Those aims are reflected in the CRM Codes overarching provisions and in the structure of
the CRM Code itself, which sets our both the standards that firms like Nationwide should
meet and the circumstances in which a customer that has been a victim of an APP scam
should be reimbursed.
When should a customer be reimbursed under the CRM Code?
The starting proposition under the CRM Code is that a customer will be reimbursed if they
are the victim of an APP scam. But  except in cases where a customer is vulnerable to
APP scams  a firm may choose not to reimburse (at its discretion) if it can establish that
one of the five specified exceptions to reimbursement apply.
This reflects the reimbursement principle, set out at various points within the APP Steering
Groups consultation paper and policy statement, that the victims of APP scams who have
met the requisite level of care should be reimbursed.
For example, the September 2018 draft CRM Code consultation paper explained:
3.46. The code reflects the proposed reimbursement principle that victims of APP scams
who have met their requisite level of care should be reimbursed
3.47. The code sets out a requisite level of care for customers to help protect themselves
from APP scams.
3.48. The steering group has been able to identify a number of matters that appearessential to good decision-making by customers. They are set out in R2(1)(a) to (g),
explained below. These matters may turn on how firms behave towards their
customers, including the tools they give to their customers.
3.49. The steering group has designed the provisions governing reimbursement of victims
so that it is presumed that a victim will be reimbursed unless good reasons can be
established that the customer should not be  in other words, the customer did not
meet its requisite level of care
3.50. The provisions at R2 set out the circumstances in which a firm may choose not to
give a reimbursement, which may depend on the firms compliance with the
standards under the SF provisions.
3.51. Just as firms will need to consider whether or not a particular standard under the SF
provisions would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam that took
place (see above at paragraph 3.28), in establishing whether a customer should be
reimbursed, firms need to consider whether what the customer did would have had a
material effect in avoiding the APP scam.
3.52. In assessing whether a customer has met the requisite level of care and should be
reimbursed, firms may take a number of matters into account. These are specifically
related to steps customers should take to help protect themselves from APP scams.
3.53.R2(1)(a) and (b) - firms will have to establish compliance with the effective
warnings and Confirmation of Payee standards before they can establish that a
customer ignored the tools given to help them protect themselves.
And in the 28 February 2019 Feedback on Responses to Consultation Paper, the APP
Steering Group said:
1.7 The Steering Group has concluded that where customers of PSPs who have signed
up to the Code meet their requisite level of care, they will be reimbursed. This
includes in the scenario where both the consumer and PSPs involved in the
transaction have met their expected level of care (the no blame scenario).
Under the CRM Code itself, the firms actions may be relevant to the question of whether the
consumer has met the requisite level of care required for reimbursement. But it is important
to note that does not automatically follow from the fact that a firm has met the standards for
firms that the consumer may not be reimbursed. The question which determines whether a
firm may choose not to reimburse is whether the consumer has met the requisite level of
care?
The exceptions to reimbursement
The CRM Code says that (so far as the potential exceptions to reimbursement are relevant
to this complaint):
Principle
R1 Subject to R2, when a Customer has been the victim of an APP scam Firms should
reimburse the Customer
Exceptions
R2(1) A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(b) 
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was
legitimate.
(d)
(e) The customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the provisions
of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this context.
I have not set out the other matters in full. But it is important to note that a firm may choose
not to reimburse if it can show any one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply
(unless the consumer was vulnerable to APP scams).
The application of the CRM Code to Miss Zs case  effective warnings
Nationwide says that it is entitled not to reimburse Miss Z under the provisions of the CRM
Code because she failed to take appropriate action in response the warnings it gave her
when she made six payments totalling £53,500 out of her account.
Given the provisions of the CRM Code, I must therefore consider:
1. Whether the warning(s) Nationwide gave Miss Z were effective warnings given in
compliance with SF1(2)?
2. If so, whether Mrs Z ignored those effective warnings by failing to take appropriate
action in response to the warnings?
3. And if so, whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact on
preventing the APP Scam which took place?
I will consider each question below. If the firm cannot establish that each requirement has
been met, then the exception to reimbursement does not apply under the provisions of the
CRM Code.
1. Whether the warning Nationwide gave Miss Z was an effective warning given in
compliance with SF1(2)?
SF1(2) says:
Where Firms identify APP scam risks in a Payment Journey, they should take
reasonable steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings, which should
include appropriate actions for those Customers to take to protect themselves from
APP scams.
(a) Firms should take reasonable steps to make their Customers aware of general
actions that could be taken to reduce the risk of falling victim to an APP scam
(b) Where the Firm identifies an APP scam risk, it should provide Effective Warnings to
customers. This may occur in one or more of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee
(ii) when amending an existing payee; and/or
(iii) during the Payment Journey, including immediately before the Customer authorises
the payment, before the Customers account is debited(c) Effective Warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the APP
scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through the user
interface with which the Customer is initiating the payment instructions
(d) Effective Warnings should enable the Customer to understand what actions they
need to take to address the risk, such as more appropriate payment methods which
may have additional protections, and the consequences of not doing so.
(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the Customer
(ii) Clear - in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in Principle 7 of
the FCAs Principles for Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should include steps to
ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the consequences of
continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on the
Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by analytics
during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer.
I am mindful that in the September 2018 consultation the APP Steering Group said:
Prevention
3.32 These provisions are about helping customers to help protect themselves from falling
victim to APP scams. There are two main strands  Confirmation of Payee, which is
discussed further below and providing effective warnings to customers during
payment journeys.
3.33 The steering group wants to incentivise those with the expertise and ability to prevent
APP scams effectively, and to reduce its impact. Therefore, the code sets a standard
for firms to use their expertise to provide their customers with effective information, at
key stages in a payment journey, so that customers have a better chance to protect
themselves against being defrauded.
3.34. To do this, at SF(2) there is a proposed framework for firms to provide effective
warnings to their customers. As part of this, there are five minimum criteria (at
SF1(2)(e)) that effective warnings should meet. They should be:
Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the
Customer;
Clear - in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in
Principle 7 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses;
Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on
the Customers decision-making;
Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the
Customer.
3.35. A constituent element of an effective warning should be that the customer is given
clear guidance about action they should take to help avoid the risk that they might be
about to fall victim to an APP scam. The customer should also be made fully aware
of the consequences if they do not follow those actions and proceed with the
payment. That is, that they might not be reimbursed. The warning should also notify
the customer whether other payment methods which may be more appropriate to
their circumstances are available  for example where a customer is using an onlinemarket platform that they might want to pay through that platform.
I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, whether or not a warning is effective in compliance
with SF1(2) will depend on a number of factors:
The warning must as a minimum meet the UCITS criteria (understandable, clear,
impactful timely and specific). As these are minimum criteria, it may be necessary
for the warning to do more than just meet the UCITS requirements to amount to an
effective warning  it would not be an effective warning if the information provided did
not give the customer a better chance to protect themselves against being
defrauded.
The warning should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect
themselves from APP scams and they should enable customers to understand what
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud, such as more appropriate
payment methods which may have additional protections and the consequences of
not doing so.
Nationwide has said it met its standards and provided effective warnings that met the
definition set out in SF1(2)(e). In particular, it has said the first warning accurately reflected
the situation Miss Z was in.
Its accepted that Miss Z selected the Bill, invoice or property sale option as a reason for the
payments she made, after which she was presented with:
STOP AND THINK
Have you double checked these bank details with the payee directly?
Scammers pose as genuine organisations and trick people to transfer money to fraudulent
accounts. If these bank details are new or have recently changed, give the payee a call to
double check them. Always use the number of their official website.
Common scams include cold calls and emails requesting you transfer money. If youve been
contacted in this way, this is likely to be a scam and you should stop this now.
Remember, youll lose your money if you agree to transfer money upfront for a deposit, item
or service and it doesnt work out. Pay with a debit or credit card when you can instead.
Given the payment reason option that sat behind the warning, Im satisfied Nationwide
intended on providing Miss Z with warnings that aimed to prevent her falling victim to email
and invoice intercept scams (amongst other scams). Email or invoice intercept scams are
where a fraudster hacks into email communications between two people  often a client and
a company  and email the client, disguised as the company, (or in this case a solicitor),
informing them that the bank details have changed, or they proactively provide account
details belonging to a fraudster. A key feature of this type of fraud is that the fraudster
targets customers who are already expecting to pay a bill, solicitor etc.
It seems to me this was the scam risk Nationwide had identified and of course this was the
type of scam Miss Z fell victim to. Ive therefore thought about whether the warning was
effective, bearing in mind the scam risk that Nationwide had identified.
Having considered the warning very carefully, Im not persuaded it was sufficiently impactful
or specific to amount to an effective warning. Im not persuaded its more likely than not that
the warning Nationwide provided in this case would positively affect customer decision
making in the way required by the CRM Code. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that:
The warning, in my view, does nothing to bring to life the most common feature of
this type of scam  that is, that the fraudster is able to convincingly impersonate a
recognised contact by email (such as a client, solicitor or tradesman), by interceptinga chain of emails, or sending an email from an email address which is the same as,
or almost identical to, the genuine email address. While the warning does explain
scammers pose as genuine organisations, Im not satisfied the average customer
would understand that posing could be as sophisticated as Ive described.
The warning describes common scams as including cold calls and emails requesting
the transfer of money. It says that If youve been contacted in this way this is likely
to be a scam.... This suggests contact is usually unexpected, whereas the reason
invoice/email intercept scams are so successful is often because the customer is
expecting to make the payment. The description of these common scams would
offer some reassurance to customers who have not received a cold call or
unexpected email requesting the transfer of money. While its not clear the intent was
to suggest the email referred to in the warning would be unexpected, the fact that it
follows cold call would suggest, in my view, to the average reader that this would be
the case.
Nationwide has specifically recognised the risk of conveyancing scams given it
encourages those making a property purchase to have sight of this warning. I
therefore think its unhelpful to use language such as genuine organisations 
instead the warning could better bring to life the type of individuals who are most
commonly impersonated. Its also possible that consumers wouldnt consider their
solicitor to be an organisation.
I think the heading in the warning in bold Have you double checked these bank
details with the payee directly? is meant to grab the consumers attention, but
there is a real risk a consumer might lose interest in reading the rest of the warning
because at that moment theyre convinced theyre already talking to the payee
directly.
In my view effective warnings would need to be impactful enough to overcome, or at least
attempt to overcome, the typical features of the type of scam it was seeking to prevent. For
the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded this particular warning was impactful or
specific enough (in line with SF1(2) iii and v) to overcome the typical features of an
invoice/email intercept scam.
Nationwide provided a second warning which Miss Z wouldve seen after selecting Im
happy to continue on the first warning, which said:I dont consider the second warning to meet the minimum criteria of an effective warning
because I dont think it was presented clearly (in line with SF1(2)e ii) or with enough
prominence to be impactful (in line with SF1(2)e iii). This is because the warning text was
pale grey and set out against a pale yellow background, and the boxes the customer had to
fill in in order to complete the payment process were much more prominent, encouraging the
eye to look at these boxes rather than anything else. It also wasnt particularly relevant to the
type of scam. Overall, I think the second warning is easy to overlook and as a result I dont
think that it was clear, specific or impactful and so it doesnt meet the definition of an
Effective Warning.
I accept Nationwide feels strongly that it provided effective warnings which met the criteria in
SF1(2) e, but overall I dont think the warnings Nationwide provided were sufficiently specific
or impactful to break the spell of the type of scam Miss Z fell victim to. So Im not persuaded
it provided effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2), which means the effective warning
exception does not apply. But for completeness I have gone on to consider the other parts
of the effective warning exception test.
2. Whether Miss Z ignored that effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in
response to the warning?
The question posed by the reimbursement section of the CRM Code is whether the
customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response.
The way the effective warning criteria is drafted means that a warning does not necessarily
need to respond to every feature or nuance of a scam in order to comply with SF1(2).
This reflects the fact that the effective warning requirements are found in the standards for
firms and are prevention measures that firms are expected to take to reduce the occurrence
of APP scams by giving customers information to help them protect themselves from APP
scams.
And whilst the list of minimum requirements includes criteria that requires some connection
between the warning and the particular scam type to be effective, it is possible that a
particular feature of a scam will render a warning meeting the SF1(2) criteria ineffective in
reality for the individual customer in all the circumstances. This means a customer might
reasonably continue with the payment, notwithstanding the warning they have been given.
Given the background and context to this reimbursement exception and the over-arching
principle that lies behind the CRM Code  that the customer should be reimbursed except
where they fail to meet the requisite level of care, Im satisfied that in considering whether
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response
to the warning, it is necessary  if applying the CRM Code correctly  to take into account
the particular circumstances of the scam in which the warning was given and of the
customer, and what action (or lack of) it would have been reasonable for a customer to take
in those circumstances. In other words, appropriate action means considering whether the
customer failed to act reasonably in response to the warning.
If this were not the approach required by the effective warning exception, it could lead to the
perverse and unintended outcome, that:
A customer who is provided with an effective warning meeting the requirements set
out in SF1(2), but one that was ineffective in the particular circumstances of a scam,
would not be reimbursed despite the customer acting objectively reasonably
throughout.
A customer who received a warning meeting the criteria at SF1(2) could continue to
have a legitimate basis for believing the transaction to be genuine in all the
circumstances (including taking into account the warnings they were given) and so
would meet the requisite level of care required by the reasonable basis for belief
exception at R2(1)(c). But, it would be open to the firm to deny reimbursement based
on the same warning under the effective warning exception at R2(1)(a)
notwithstanding that the consumer had a reasonable basis for not acting on the
warning in the way intended by the firm.
I am also mindful that the Practitioner Guide to the CRM Code which was drafted by the LSB
to support Firms in achieving the requirements of the CRM Code would seem to support
that construction of the CRM Code (although I am mindful that the Practitioner Guide is not
intended to be prescriptive nor binding on firms).
The Practitioner Guide explains that in deciding not to reimburse a customer because they
ignored an effective warning, firms should have regard to the characteristics of the
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam in determining whether it
would have been reasonable for the Customer to undertake the actions identified in the
warning. The practitioner guide goes on to say that where there is evidence to suggest that
a warning may have been ignored Firms should fully investigate the reasons why. It further
explains that in doing so, firms should have regard to the customers situation, and the
controls they have in place to encourage the customer to heed the contents of the warning 
such as using friction points such as delayed payments to give customers the time to
consider and digest a warning. And that they should be alert to any indications that the
customer may have been in a/is in a vulnerable situation.
The relevant passage says:
In refusing a claim for reimbursement, Firms should be able to satisfy themselves that the
Customer had disregarded the Warning that had been provided to them or failed to take
appropriate actions to validate the authenticity of the payment, where the warning instructed
them to do so. This may include validating account details being used for payments, or
where the scammer purports to be from a recognised organisation, the attempts made by
the Customer to validate the identity of the payment recipient. Firms should have regard to
the characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam
in determining whether it would have been reasonable for the Customer to undertake the
action/s identified in the warning for example, whether the Customer was vulnerable.Where there is evidence to suggest that a warning may have been ignored Firms should fully
investigate the reasons why. In assessing the reasons why a Customer may have ignored a
Warning, Firms should have regard to the Customers situation, and the controls they have
in place to encourage the Customer to heed the contents of the warning. This may include
for example, the use of friction points such as delayed payments to provide Customers with
the time to consider and digest the Warning presented to them. Firms should be alert to any
indications that the Customer may have been in a/is in a vulnerable situation and could
benefit from additional support. This could stem from an inability to comprehend the contents
of the Warning due to limited financial or mental capacity, reducing their ability to make or
communicate an informed decision.
Firms should consider this in the context of the Customers circumstances, including the
complexity and sophistication of the scam and the Customers relationship with the payment
recipient, when carrying out their assessment of whether a Customer is vulnerable under
R2(3).
I have considered whether Miss Z failed to take appropriate action in response to the
warning(s) she received given the particular circumstances of the APP fraud she fell victim
to.
When Miss Z was presented with the warnings, from Miss Zs perspective:
Shed been regularly communicating with her solicitor about the need to pay the
deposit as soon as possible. Therefore, when she received a further email from who
she believed to be her solicitor, asking for a payment to be made, around the agreed
date, Miss Z wasnt in any way surprised  the contact was expected.
The email from the fraudster appeared within a chain of emails to the genuine
solicitor with only a very minor difference to the email address which wasnt noticed
until after the event.
Miss Z directly engaged with who she was convinced was her solicitor asking for the
account details where the money should be sent. Miss Z had never paid the solicitor
before and had misplaced the initial bank details the solicitor had sent her.
In Miss Zs own words she felt completely in control of the situation  it was her that
was asking for the solicitors bank details and shed made arrangements to pay the
deposit over two separate days in order to secure the purchase of the property.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied the warning was strong enough to break the spell in
the moment. In my view, for the reasons Ive previously explained, the warnings primary
focus and content is to warn customers about the possibility theyre about to fall victim to a
scam when theyve received unexpected contact, either by phone or email, from a genuine
organisation asking them to transfer money. This is not the situation Miss Z found herself in.
In her mind shed received expected contact from a solicitor, within a genuine email chain,
asking her to pay the deposit on a property that she was already late paying.
I accept the warning set out that Miss Z should call the organisation directly by telephone,
but Im not persuaded this would hit home to the average consumer when they already think
theyre liaising with the organisation  in particular when, as Ive said, the warning did
nothing to explain what email interception looks like in reality. Im satisfied Miss Z wasnt
aware just how sophisticated the methods of posing as a genuine organisation could be.
The common scam examples provided in the warning were too far from the situation Miss Z
found herself in to be impactful in the circumstances. In fact, the common scam examples 
the nature of which reference unexpected contact  likely offered some reassurance Miss Z
wasnt about to fall victim to a scam given the contact was expected and shed directly askedfor the payment details herself. Its relevant that Miss Z felt completely in control of the
situation as the overall tone of the warning indicates you wouldnt be when youre being
contacted by a fraudster.
In the circumstances and given how the scam unfolded, I do not think Miss Z acted
unreasonably so as to fail to take appropriate action in response to the warnings she was
given, particularly when taking into account the warnings limitations.
3. whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact on preventing
the APP Scam which took place?
In this case Ive found the warnings were not Effective Warnings given in compliance of
SF1(2) and in any event I have found that Miss Z did not disregard the warning by failing to
take appropriate steps in the circumstances. Had she taken the suggested steps set out in
the warning the scam would have unravelled, but in this case Miss Z did not fail to take
appropriate action.
Did Miss Z have a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person she was
expecting to pay?
Ive gone on to think about whether in all the circumstances of the payments, in particular the
characteristics of Miss Z and the complexity and sophistication of the scam, Miss Z made the
payments without a reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate.
Nationwide believes Miss Z didnt, or ought not to have had a reasonable basis for belief that
the payments were being sent to her solicitor. This is because:
Miss Zs genuine solicitors emails contained a disclaimer warning its clients about
the type of scam Miss Z fell victim to. The disclaimer broadly mirrored the effective
warning Nationwide had already provided.
While the change in the solicitors email address was subtle, Miss Z shouldve been
extra vigilant due to the warnings (from Nationwide and her solicitor) shed received
Miss Zs email address and password had been compromised in 2018 and this too
ought to have put Miss Z on heightened alert
Ill consider each of Nationwides points in turn.
Solicitors disclaimer
I accept Miss Zs genuine solicitors emails contained a disclaimer which said the following:
Please note we have been made aware that fraudsters have attempted to persuade a client
to send funds to another account. We will never change our bank details and will not provide
those details in an open email. Please check with us directly by phone or use the Safebuyer
Scheme before sending us any monies as we will not be responsible for any lost funds.
Miss Z says she read this disclaimer when she first saw it, but she did not read it every time
the solicitor sent her an email. Instead Miss Z subsequently just read the contents of the
email which contained new information. I think this is understandable in the circumstances 
after some time repeated disclaimers would likely appear as wallpaper rather than of
anything of significance to most recipients.
Its also important to note that the fraudsters emails did not contain the disclaimer. I dont
think its unreasonable that Miss Z didnt notice the absence of the disclaimer  I dont think
the absence is remarkable - but this also means that Miss Z wouldnt have read the
disclaimer just before making the payment anyway  it seems the fraudster deliberatelyremoved the disclaimer/didnt include the disclaimer in their email to maximise the chance of
the scam succeeding.
Nationwide has said the disclaimer supported and was entirely consistent with the warning it
had provided. I accept the disclaimer and the warning contained some similarities, but Im
mindful neither warning set out what this scam looked like in reality when a fraudster tries to
persuade someone to transfer them money  importantly this disclaimer, like Nationwides
warning, did nothing to inform the recipient how a fraudster is able to so convincingly pose
as the solicitor.
The disclaimer also talks about the fact the solicitor will never change our bank details and
will not provide those details in an open email, but Miss Z was not under the impression the
bank details had changed  shed simply requested the bank details and had no reason to
doubt these were different.
Overall Im not persuaded the inclusion of the disclaimer means that Miss Z didnt act
reasonably, or made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the money was
being sent to her solicitor.
The change in the solicitors email address
The change to the solicitors email address contained an i instead of an l. Nationwide
believes Miss Z ought to have been extra vigilant and presumably noticed this, because of
the warnings and the disclaimer. Ive already explained why I dont think the warnings
Nationwide provided were effective, and that the disclaimer didnt explain what email/invoice
interception looked like, and so I dont think Miss Z wouldve closely analysed the email
address to check it was exactly the same  particularly as the email from the fraudster was
in response to an email shed sent her solicitor.
Im satisfied that as far as Miss Z was concerned, shed received an expected response from
her solicitor  its not realistic for firms to expect customers to look out for tiny discrepancies
in an email address, particularly when a firm has not alerted a customer to the possibility of a
fraudster posing as a solicitor in the middle of a chain of genuine email correspondence,
using the same or a very similar email address.
The compromise of Miss Zs email account and password in 2018
Miss Z says she has evidence that it was not her system that was compromised. Nationwide
has said that it was given the solicitors email address had been changed. Nationwide says
its likely Miss Z didnt change her details following the compromise of her account in 2018
and that even if she had, she ought to have been on heightened alert.
I do not know whether it was the solicitor or Miss Z who had their account compromised at
the time of the scam  and I dont intend to make a finding on this. I do not think that Miss Z,
or an average customer who did not have a working knowledge about how scams work, or
about the events that often proceed them, wouldve thought about an incident that occurred
in 2018, relating to a data breach, when liaising with their solicitor at least a year later. Its
unrealistic for Nationwide to think that the average customer would understand that a data
breach might lead to a fraudster impersonating a solicitor, in the middle of a genuine chain of
emails, asking for money.
And I disagree that Miss Zs actions following the data breach in 2018 has likely led to this
scam. There is no evidence to suggest this is likely.
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I am not persuaded Miss Z made the paymentswithout a reasonable basis for belief that she was paying her genuine solicitor.
Final thoughts about reimbursement under the Code
As a final point, Im currently not satisfied that Nationwide took the time to fully recognise, or
find out about, the full circumstances of the scam. It seems that Nationwide only saw the
emails between Miss Z and the fraudster and Miss Z and the solicitor after receiving the
investigators view on the complaint. Given the nature of the scam, this is information Id
have expected Nationwide to consider before deciding not to reimburse Miss Z. It seems to
me that its more likely than not Nationwide made the decision not to reimburse Miss Z
based on assertion rather than on the evidence that was available to it.
Could Nationwide have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Finally, Ive thought about whether, moving away from the CRM Code, Nationwide couldve
done anything else to prevent Miss Z falling victim to the scam.
The investigator felt that the payments Miss Z were making were out of character and
unusual, and that Nationwide ought to have made enquiries about the payments before
processing them, to check Miss Z wasnt at risk of financial harm.
Nationwide doesnt agree. Its said, in summary, that:
It is not unusual for customers to make occasional legitimate large payments
Miss Z informed Nationwide the payment was for a bill, invoice or property sale which
was entirely consistent with her behaviour
To intervene in all situations where a property deposit is being paid would be a
significant burden on Nationwide and could cause consumer detriment
There is nothing in the Code to suggest written warnings are insufficient
It doesnt believe its intervention wouldve made a difference given Miss Zs action
after seeing the warnings it provided.
In this particular case Im satisfied some of the payments Miss Z made were unusual enough
that they ought to have prompted Nationwide to have made enquiries to challenge the
purpose of those payments before processing them.
Miss Z made two consecutive payments of £10,000 to a new payee on 7 November. These
first two payments were funded by savings Miss Z held with Nationwide and I dont think, in
these particular circumstances, that Nationwide ought to have intervened before processing
them.
But Miss Z went on to make a further four payments on 11 November to the same payee 
three consecutive payments of £10,000 followed by a final payment of £3,500. I think
Nationwide ought fairly and reasonably to have contacted Miss Z at the point she attempted
to make the first payment of £10,000 the 11 November. This was the third payment to the
same payee over a matter of days. At this point Nationwide ought to have been concerned
that Miss Z might be at risk of financial harm given a pattern of payments (three £10,000
payments) to a new payee had started to emerge.
Had Nationwide contacted Miss Z asking for information about the purpose of the payment,
Im satisfied Miss Z wouldve confirmed she was paying the deposit on a new property. In
response Id have expected Nationwide to ask Miss Z how shed been provided with the
bank account details given the prevalence of conveyancing scams (which Im satisfied
Nationwide was aware of at the time). Ive no reason to doubt Miss Z wouldnt have told
Nationwide shed been provided with these account details by email, and so in responseNationwide shouldve warned Miss Z about the possibility the emails had been intercepted
and given Miss Z information about what this type of fraud looked like in reality; encouraging
her to call her solicitor to confirm the account details rather than double check them by
email.
Had Nationwide done this Im persuaded its more likely than not Miss Z wouldve contacted
her solicitor by phone and the scam would have been revealed; preventing Miss Z from
losing £33,500.
For clarity, my findings that Nationwide ought to have prevented Miss Z from losing £33,500
have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint given I have decided Miss Z
shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the
interest payable only.
Conclusions
Overall, Im currently minded to conclude that Nationwide should have reimbursed Miss Z
under the provisions of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied Nationwide established Miss Z
ignored effective warnings or that she made the payments without a reasonable basis for
belief that she was paying her solicitor. Im persuaded Miss Z met her requisite level of care.
Its my understanding Nationwide hasnt sought to rely on the other provisions in the Code in
declining reimbursement but in any event, I havent seen anything to suggest Miss Z was
grossly negligent.
Further, as Ive explained, I think its more likely than not Nationwide would have prevented
Miss Z losing £33,500 had it intervened in the way that Ive described above.
In those circumstances, I think Nationwide should now fairly and reasonably compensate
Miss Z by refunding her the £53,500 she lost as a result of the scam.
Impact on Miss Z
Finally, Ive considered whether Nationwide should pay Miss Z compensation for the distress
and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of Nationwides actions. In considering
whats fair compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of Nationwides actions,
rather than the impact of the crime itself.
Im persuaded that Nationwides failure to reimburse, and prevent some of the financial harm
suffered, has had a lasting impact on Miss Z. As I explained earlier Miss Z has been left
suffering with insomnia and anxiety; and she has been distressed due to the impact on her
and her partners finances and losing their investment property. Whilst I dont doubt Miss Z
would have been shaken by what had happened even if Nationwide had done what I have
set out it ought to have done, I dont think the impact on Miss Zs health and wellbeing
wouldve been as significant as it has been.
So, for these reasons I think Nationwide should pay Miss Z £400 in compensation.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 16 February 2021.
Miss Z accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add, and Nationwide has 
said it is happy to accept my provisional decision in its entirety.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings, and I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
 I uphold Miss Zs complaint against Nationwide Building Society. I require Nationwide 
Building Society to:
refund Miss Z the £53,500 she lost to the scam;
pay 8% simple interest on the £20,000 from the date Nationwide decided not to
refund Miss Z under the CRM Code until the date of settlement
pay 8% simple interest on the £33,500 from the date of loss (11 November 2019)
until the date of settlement
Pay Miss Z a further £400 for the material distress and inconvenience she
experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Katie Doran
Ombudsman