DRN-2904796
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (the 
Post Office) refused her application to invest in a One-Year Growth Bond. During the time it 
took to make a decision, Mrs G says she was unable to invest her funds somewhere else.  
As a result, Mrs G submits that she should be reimbursed for the loss of interest on her 
capital, as well as compensated for the upset the Post Office has caused her.   
What happened
Mrs G applied for the bond on 22 July 2019, by writing to the Post Office enclosing a cheque 
for £85,000.
On 23 July 2019, the Post Office wrote to Mrs G to explain her funds had been placed in a 
holding account until additional required documentation was supplied. Mrs G made a call to 
query what information was needed, in lieu of a copy of a passport or driving licence. She 
obtained a letter from the Department of Work and Pensions as well as recent bank 
statement, had these certified by a Chartered Accountant, and sent the certified copies to 
the Post Office.  
On 1 August 2019, the Post Office wrote to Mrs G noting it could not find evidence of the 
certifier on the Chartered Accountants Register, and therefore it couldnt accept the 
documents. Mrs G received the letter on 7 August 2019. Through a call placed by her 
daughter, she asked the Post Office to review its decision as she had given evidence of the 
certifiers registration. They also sent the Post Office a letter confirming how they had done a 
search of the relevant Chartered Institute website and found the certifier right away. Mrs G 
and her daughter said they felt interest should have begun to accrue from 1 August 2019.  
On 13 August 2019, the Post Office sent Mrs G a further letter asking for proof of address 
which Mrs G said she had already supplied. Mrs Gs daughter then called the Post Office to 
explain this. Despite this, the Post Office sent a further letter dated 22 August 2019 asking 
for further proof of address as it was not included on the bank statement. Mrs Gs daughter 
explained she wished to make a complaint. Mrs G thereafter supplied a certified copy of her 
Post Office card account, which included her address.  
On 3 September 2019, the Post Office explained that the certified account information Mrs G 
had sent wasnt acceptable. Mrs G therefore arranged for a copy of her bank statement to be 
certified and sent it on 10 September. It was received by the Post Office on 13 September.  
On 11 September 2019, £85,000 was transferred back to Mrs Gs certified bank account, 
received by her the following day. The Post Office said the application had been cancelled 
as it hadnt received a reply to the letter of 3 September 2019 within the timescale set out.  
Mrs Gs daughter furthered the complaint later that month. She said Mrs G complied with all 
of the Post Offices requests yet it did not set up the bond as required. Instead she had lost 
the opportunity to earn interest on her funds, as should have happened. This was 
compounded by her not being able to obtain a rate on an alternative account that matched 
the Post Office - the bond had a rate of interest of 1.4% and the account the funds were 
thereafter placed into had a rate of 0.85%. 
She therefore requested that the Post Office compensated her for two months of lost interest 
from 1 August 2019 to 1 October 2019, that it made up the shortfall of lost interest to 31 July 
2020 when the one-year term would have expired, and that it paid her due compensation for 
the inconvenience and upset it had caused her.  
As the Post Office did not reply within eight weeks, Mrs G brought her complaint to this 
service.  
In January 2020, the Post Office rejected Mrs Gs complaint. It said it was legally obliged to 
confirm both Mrs Gs identity and permanent address before the account could be opened. 
Firstly, the chosen certifier couldnt be identified and secondly, the bank statement she had 
sent did not contain her address. When she then sent proof of documentation with an 
address, it was Post Office documentation  and that wasnt an acceptable proof of address 
because it needed to be from a separate business. 
It was for that reason that it wrote to Mrs G on 3 September stating it needed a valid proof of 
address by 10 September or else the application would be cancelled. As it had not heard 
back from Mrs G, it returned her funds on 11 September 2019. It did this because it had a 
procedure that it should not retain a customers uninvested funds for more than 28 days.    
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She agreed that Mrs G 
unfortunately hadnt provided the right information to the Post Office to meet its verification 
requirements. She did agree that the Post Office stating a printed name was required on the 
certified documents was never put to Mrs G. But in the circumstances, she didnt think it 
would have changed the course of events  the Post Office was entitled to cancel the 
application in accordance with the terms of the bond and its letter of 3 September 2019 was 
clear that the application would be cancelled if the right information wasnt provided 
regarding the proof of address. 
Mrs Gs daughter explained that given the amount of time that had elapsed and Mrs Gs 
advancing age, she wasnt able to recall in detail the events that were being relayed now. 
She felt that the assessment was fair, but they were disappointed in the findings that the 
Post Office had committed no wrongdoing. If it had explained more clearly why the bank 
statement was rejected, Mrs G wouldnt have then sent in the Post Office account statement 
that was unsuitable, and missed the relevant time frame at the end. 
Whilst they now accepted that the Post Office was within its rights to reject the application, 
Mrs G still felt it could have been clearer in its correspondence. Mrs G therefore accepted 
she wasnt owed any compensation for lost interest but she and her daughter still considered 
the Post Office ought to take some responsibility for what had happened.  
Specifically, they said that the Post Office could have explained earlier that the bank 
statement was not correct. Further, it took more than eight weeks to address the complaint 
and this should be recognised. The complaint wasnt properly registered by the Post Office 
until 5 December 2019, despite the verbal complaint in August confirmed in writing on 26 
September, and the sending of three further letters on 24 October, 27 November and 14 
December 2019. Mrs Gs daughter supplied proof of posting for the first of those letters as 
evidence that they had been sent and the Post Office caused an unreasonable delay.  
The Post Office confirmed it did not receive the September and October letters and this was 
only identified once it did receive the November 2019 letter. It couldnt say why they were not 
received but the evidence Mrs Gs daughter had supplied was proof of posting, not receipt. In any event, the Post Office said this final aspect of concern should not be included in the 
complaint. That was because it was not a complaint relating to provision of a financial 
service, and a complaint about complaint handling was not a regulated activity under the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
On that basis, our investigator could not offer any further foment on the merits of the 
complaint handling process. Mrs Gs daughter said Mrs G wanted the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman  and so it was passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not believe it ought to be upheld. 
Firstly, Id like to send my best wishes to Mrs G and her daughter given their circumstances, 
and I appreciate how patient they have been whilst this complaint has progressed.  
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs G and her daughter. I can see this 
situation caused Mrs G a great deal of upset as she had hoped her funds would earn interest 
which goes towards her care costs. But I do not believe the Post Office has unreasonably 
caused the loss of interest that is claimed as compensation (which I note Mrs G and her 
daughter now recognise) or acted unreasonably in processing the application such that it 
caused it to be cancelled and therefore I cannot uphold the complaint. 
I wont be addressing the new issue Mrs Gs daughter has raised about the delays of the 
Post Office issuing a final response letter for two reasons  1) this wasnt a specific 
complaint put to the Post Office and 2) as set out, complaints to this service do need to be 
about specific regulated activities (and complaint handling is not an activity in its own right) 
under the rules which apply to this service. If required, a copy of the rules can be found 
online at https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/?view=chapter. 
Turning to the complaint furthered here, I can see that Mrs G and her daughter now 
appreciate that the bond terms and conditions supplied by the Post Office do address the 
matter of retaining a customers account deposit and returning it without interest in the event 
it is unable to open an account. I recognise that this term is contained within a high volume 
of detailed terms and conditions. So I have also looked at the correspondence sent to Mrs G 
throughout the application process.  
In the letter of 23 July 2019 acknowledging receipt of her funds, the Post Office told Mrs G 
that it needed further documentation and noted please note if we do not receive suitable 
documentation within the next 28 days, your application will be cancelled, your deposit 
returned to you and you will need to start the application process again. I find that clearly 
placed Mrs G on notice of the timescale for opening the account, albeit the matter of interest 
was solely covered in the terms and conditions document issued to Mrs G. 
To get her Growth Bond set up, Mrs G had to send back one certified document from a list of 
documents (list A and list B). She did this, sending an alternative list A document in place 
of the usually required passport or driving licence, and a bank statement for list B.  
An issue arose on verification once the Post Office received these documents. I realise that 
the chosen chartered accountant was indeed registered on the appropriate website  but I 
can see from the Post Offices internal notes that the issue with verification arose because the accountant signed the document and stamped it with his company name. On the website 
he was registered in his name, rather than that of the company. Once Mrs G and her 
daughter clarified he was an appropriate certifier, the Post Office accepted the DWP letter.  
The remaining issue was the bank statement Mrs G supplied  it was correctly certified but it 
was missing her address anywhere on the document. For that reason, the Post Office asked 
Mrs G for further evidence, and she sent in a Post Office account statement instead.  
I understand why Mrs Gs daughter feels the Post Office could and should have pointed out 
that the bank statement was wrong and why. The Post Office did do this  in the letter of 22 
August 2019, it expressly said it needed more evidence because Address details was not 
(sic) present on the address proof document [name of bank]. 
This wasnt raised earlier by the Post Office (as Mrs Gs daughter has queried) because the 
certifier issue was addressed first. That is logical, since if the certifier hadnt been able to be 
verified, both sets of evidence would be affected. As it was, the Post Office accepted the 
DWP document for list A, but list B had not been correctly satisfied for proof of identity.  
Matters were unfortunately prolonged when the second address evidence Mrs G supplied 
was a conflict  because it was a document from a different Post Office account. I note that 
this has been questioned by Mrs Gs daughter, but I do believe the Post Office clearly set out 
that it was insufficient to pass the required verification. The Post Office isnt unreasonable in 
requiring identity evidence from a different business  if it could use its own correspondence 
from other accounts, then the requirements of list B evidence would not be satisfied.   
The letter of 3 September 2019 (that Mrs G received 7 September) said the Post Office 
account evidence was not acceptable and Mrs G needed to kindly provide any one of the 
valid address proof document[s]. Mrs G then returned the first bank statement, but this time 
a further certified copy with her address included. 
However, the Post Offices letter also contained a warning that if the document wasnt 
received the application process would be cancelled. It said we need to receive these 
documents by 10/09/2019 in order to get your Growth Bond up and running. If we do not 
hear from you by this date we will assume you no longer want to open an account and will 
cancel your application.  
Mrs G didnt return the updated certified bank statement before 10 September. It was 
received another three days after that  but by then, the Post Office had cancelled the 
application as it said it would do. 
Whilst I can see there has been a degree of misunderstanding about the letters issued by 
the Post Office, I do not believe that this complaint should be upheld. The process needed to 
be completed within 28 days or a new process could be required by the Post Office. This 
was for the reason Mrs G has complained about  that being while the bond is set up, 
interest is not being earned on the money deposited by the prospective account holder.  
I cannot conclude that the Post Office should be held responsible for the fact Mrs G would 
have needed to start a new application (though I note she did not do so). It acted within the 
terms and conditions by cancelling the application, and it did go further by discretionally 
extending this time to a maximum 45 days  and its internal notes showed it would have 
backdated interest to allow for that. However, the right information wasnt received at the 
material times throughout the application process. 
Though I know Mrs Gs daughter feels strongly otherwise, I dont find the correspondence to 
be unclear in what was required from Mrs G. I accept the letters did not go into strict detail about how and why a document wasnt suitable  save for a brief description such as the 
one of 22 August 2019. But Mrs G was given a customer service number to call if she had 
any queries  and she and her daughter did make contact in this way. If they had any 
concerns about the late arrival of the final certified bank statement, they could have 
contacted the Post Office about it as they had done previously. 
The Post Office reasonably cancelled the bond application process and told Mrs G she could 
complete another application if so required. While Mrs G didnt want to reapply, I dont 
believe the Post Office should be responsible for compensating Mrs G because the 
application was unable to complete. It didnt go ahead because the correct proof of identity 
wasnt provided within the timescales  and the Post Office is obliged to ensure it has met 
with relevant compliance on customer verification. 
My final decision
Im not able to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman