DRN-2419710
The complaint
Mr D complains that The New India Assurance Company Limited (New India) unfairly 
declined his car insurance claim.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr Ds car broke down while he drove through water and was left 
damaged, so he made a claim under his car insurance policy. The claim was handled by a 
third party on behalf of New India  for ease Ill refer to the third party as New India in my 
decision.
New India declined the claim, relying on the policy term that says loss or damage caused by 
a deliberate act isnt covered. The insurer said Mr D deliberately and knowingly drove 
through the water and this caused the damage to his car  so it decided not to cover the 
claim. New India classified the car as a category B write-off and arranged for the vehicle to 
be salvaged.
Mr D complained as he didnt agree with the insurers decision. He was also unhappy with 
the way the claim had been handled. New India stood by its decision, so Mr D asked this 
service to get involved. Mr D said he wants the claim paid and that he doesnt agree with the 
category B write-off classification of his car. Hes also unhappy that his finance agreement 
on the car had defaulted because the claim wasnt paid and that he now faces increased 
insurance premiums. Mr D is concerned that New India salvaged his car without his 
permission and claims that New India has kept funds he was due to be paid for the claim. In 
addition to the claim being paid, Mr D also wants compensation.
As part of his submissions to New India and this service, Mr D said:
The location of the incident was 350-400 yards from his home and he was driving to 
work.
He left home around 6:00 am.
It wasnt raining at the time and the road was dry the night before when he drove 
home.
He says it was dark at the time and he observed other vehicles, including a van 
driving through the water with no issues  some vehicles drove past him too after his 
car broke down. He says he had no reason to believe that he couldnt drive through 
successfully.
There were no road closures on his route, no warning signs and he didnt see 
anything that may have alerted him that the road was flooded.
This section of the road has never flooded in the time hes lived in the area (which he 
says is most of his life).
Any local flood warnings/installation of flood barriers wasnt relevant to the location 
where he drove through water.
After his car broke down, he stayed inside the car for some time and that the water 
level was only a few inches to start with. He then climbed out through a window 
because the water levels had risen while he waited in the car.
New India says:
There was information available around the time via the public domain that wouldve 
put Mr D on notice of flooding in the area. This includes media reports and social 
media updates.
There were also reports of sand bags being distributed in the area and specifically 
near the location where Mr D drove his car through water.
Flood defences were being put up in the area  highlighting the seriousness of the 
potential flooding.
Images from the scene show the water level was quite high up against Mr Ds car.
Our investigator decided that New India had unfairly applied the policy term it was relying on 
and asked the insurer to review the claim. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr D 
drove through the water and caused damage deliberately nor that he wouldve known that 
the road in question was likely to be flooded. The investigator didnt think that Mr Ds 
premiums or finance agreement were affected because of something New India did wrong 
and concluded that the write-off category had been applied fairly. Our investigator also 
recommended a distress and inconvenience payment of £200 because of failings in the way 
the claim was handled. 
New India didnt agree  it said that there were enough factors in place at the time for Mr D 
to assess the risk of driving through water and remained of the view that he caused damage 
deliberately. Mr D accepted our investigators findings.
Because New India didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion on this matter and Ill explain why. Mr D 
accepted our investigators findings, so I wont be commenting in too much detail on the 
issues that Im not upholding on. 
Did New India apply the policy term fairly?
The terms of Mr Ds policy say that loss or damage to your car as a result of a deliberate act 
by anyone insured by the policy is not covered. New India referred to Mr Ds testimony that 
he observed a van driving through the water ahead of him and the insurer used this 
information to estimate the water depth at the time. Across its communication with Mr D and 
this service, New India estimates the water depth to have been between 25cm and 32cm. 
The insurer says that the engine height of Mr Ds car was around 28cm. 
New India adds that Mr D shouldnt have relied on the fact that other cars had successfully 
driven through the water  as these other cars may have done so by chance. It also 
references Mr Ds testimony that he was physically left wet up to his waist. The insurer refers 
to public information at the time that indicates the road Mr Ds car broke down on was 
subject to road closures. New India concludes that Mr D had enough information to assess 
the risk of driving through the water and he that he deliberately did so despite the risk. 
Its difficult to safely reach conclusions on the estimated water depth. Mr D suggests that the 
water level was low, that the area wasnt subject to flooding in the past and that it was pitch 
black and dry weather at the time  so he had to estimate and provide testimony on the 
water depth based on these conditions. Mr D says the van he witnessed driving through the water was a smaller model than the one New India relied on to estimate the water depth. He 
also says that he saw all vehicles ahead of him and a further two behind him drive through 
the water successfully. Mr D adds that the road in question and the surrounding roads were 
not closed at the time.
Having weighed up all the information and submissions from both parties, Im of the opinion 
that New India unfairly concluded that Mr D deliberately caused damage to his car. Ive 
looked through the information New India sent about the flood related measures that were 
being put in place around the time as well as the updates that had gone out regarding road 
closures. But none of this information points to there being a risk of flooding at the location 
Mr Ds car broke down. 
Mr D says hes lived in the area for most of his life, so Im persuaded by his submission that 
he has a good level of understanding of the flood history in the area. Mr D is adamant that 
the location in question has never flooded before and any information about flood defence 
measures wouldve been relevant to a different location. 
Additionally, the road closure information seems to have been released around the time 
Mr D says he left his home. So its unlikely Mr D wouldve been aware of this update. And he 
was able to drive on to the road where his car had broken down  even though the update 
New India refers to mentions this road being closed. So I dont think theres enough to say 
that, on balance, Mr D wouldve been aware that there was a risk of flooding on the road 
where he broke down.
I dont think Mr Ds decision to drive through the water was unreasonable or one that was 
made without assessing the risk. As Mr D says, the weather conditions had been dry since 
the evening before and his journey up until the break down didnt include any signage or 
information indicating road closures were in effect. Looking at the pictures, there is limited 
lighting around the location in question and Mr D left home in the early hours of the morning 
when it was still dark. So any assessment of the water level he had to make wouldve likely 
been difficult in these conditions.
Mr D says several vehicles drove through the water successfully and he used this as a basis 
of his decision to do the same. Again, I dont think it was unreasonable of him to do so and I 
dont think he drove through the water expecting that it would cause damage to his car. The 
estimated water depth calculated by New India indicates that the water level was, at most, 
likely to have been only a few centimetres above what a safe depth for Mr Ds car wouldve 
been. 
But the difference seems to be a matter of a few centimetres. Given this small difference, I 
think it wouldve been difficult for Mr D to judge whether the water was too deep or not. So 
hinging his decision on the success of other vehicles driving through the water was likely the 
most reliable method available to him at the time. 
New India refers to Mr Ds testimony on the day in question, where hed mentioned being 
physically wet up to his waist and points to the pictures of his submerged car. The insurer 
says this is evidence that the water depth was too high. But the pictures seem to have been 
taken later in the day  when there was daylight. Mr D says he waited in his car after it broke 
down and that the water level rose during the period that followed, so he had to exit his car 
through a window. This seems plausible to me and I find that there isnt enough information 
to persuade me that the water depth was exactly the same in the pictures as it was at the 
time Mr D drove through it.  
In my opinion, Mr Ds decision to drive through the water wasnt made to deliberately cause 
damage as I dont think its likely he wouldve known this would happen.Write off category 
Mr D disputed New Indias decision to classify his car as a category B write off. As our 
investigator pointed out, the Association of British Insurers code sets out that vehicles that 
have corrosive, contaminated, polluted or salt water damage should be classed as category 
B write off. Having considered this and the details of the engineers report, I think this 
decision was fair.
Outstanding finance
Mr Ds car was under a finance agreement with a third party and it seems hes being 
contacted for payment of the balance that is due. But this doesnt seem to be down to 
something New India has done wrong. Mr Ds outstanding finance wouldve always been 
due  regardless of any decisions made by the insurer in relation to his claim. I empathise 
with the situation Mr D finds himself in  but I cant see anything that leads me to conclude 
that New India needs to do something in relation to Mr Ds finance agreement.
Premium increase
Mr D expressed concerns about an increase to his premium following his claim. As our 
investigator explained, this claim is likely to have been settled as a fault claim on Mr Ds 
insurance records. So despite New Indias decision not to pay his claim, the records will 
reflect that an incident took place and a claim was made. So its likely that this would impact 
Mr Ds insurance premiums to some extent. I cant say for certain that this claim is whats led 
to Mr D having to pay higher premiums  but even if it was, I cant fairly conclude that this is 
because of something New India has done wrong. 
Salvaging of the car
Understandably, it may have come as a surprise to Mr D when New India informed him that 
it had salvaged his car. I know Mr D wouldve preferred to have been contacted to provide 
his agreement before this was carried out. But the terms of the policy allow New India to 
handle the claim in a way it chooses. So it didnt need Mr Ds permission beforehand.
Looking at the engineers report  it was determined that the car was at the end of life given 
the level of damage. So I dont think it was unreasonable of New India to have salvaged the 
car.
Additional allegation
Mr D alleges that New India has kept the funds for his claim. I havent seen any information 
that leads me to believe this is the case. New India has declined Mr Ds claim so its unlikely 
there are any additional funds available that is due to be paid to him. 
Distress and inconvenience
I can see from the copies of communication Mr D and New India sent to this service that 
there were numerous instances of back and forth correspondence between both parties. 
What seems apparent is that at least some of Mr Ds correspondence was not responded to 
by New India  this caused Mr D distress and inconvenience as he didnt know the progress 
of his claim and had to send multiple chasers. Moreover, New India provided incorrect 
information to Mr D about the status of his car  despite knowing it had been salvaged 
already. This caused him further stress. 
I agree, £200 compensation is a fair way to put this right.Putting things right
New India unfairly decided that Mr D caused damage to his car deliberately. To put things 
right, New India should put aside this exclusion and reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. If, by doing so, it determines that a payment 
is due to Mr D  then it should pay this amount plus 8% interest from the date the claim was 
made to the date of settlement. 
As I set out above, New India should also pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. To put things right, The New India Assurance Company Limited 
should follow my instructions as set out above in the putting things right part of my 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman