DRN-1260153
 
The complaint
Ms D complains about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by 
AXA France IARD (AXA) in 1998. 
What happened
AXA, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my decision, Ill just refer to 
AXA as the PPI seller. Ms D says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Ms D signed. It appears AXA 
made her aware that she had a choice about adding PPI and that she chose to take it 
by ticking the relevant box on the form. I can understand if she doesnt remember 
that now, after all this time.
I dont consider that AXA personally recommended the PPI to Ms D. So, it didnt have 
to check if the PPI was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information 
she needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And I can see why as, despite her enhanced sick pay entitlement, 
the PPI benefits were considerable and would have paid out for a significant time. It 
covered her for unemployment too. And the policy benefits were guaranteed, unlike 
the help she might have relied on from her partner and her family. I also think its 
likely Ms D realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Ms Ds lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI. Nor do I believe any compensation's due to her for how the complaint was handled. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman