DRN-3632332
The complaint
Mr O complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly increased his premium after 
declining a claim on his landlord insurance.
Mr O bought his policy through an insurance intermediary and most of his correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with UKI. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to UKI includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Mr O had a UKI landlord insurance policy. In June 2021, there was a leak in a flat where Mr 
O was the freeholder. He removed the bathroom floor to investigate the damage and 
discovered the joists below the bathroom and kitchen floor were rotten.
Mr O called UKI and asked if his policy covered this damage. The call handler told him that 
UKI could consider this and Mr O made a claim. As part of its claims assessment, a 
company contracted by UKI reviewed video taken by Mr O of the damage. This company 
concluded that the damage was severe rot and 10-20 years old. Based on this, UKI told 
Mr O his policy does not cover rot or anything that has occurred gradually and declined his 
claim.
Mr Os policy was due for renewal in December 2021. UKI quoted a new premium that was, 
according to Mr O, a 62% increase on the previous year. Mr O was unhappy because he 
believed UKI told him to make the claim in July 2021, then used this as an excuse to 
increase his premium. He complained to UKI and switched insurer.
UKI accepted that its call handler should have told Mr O his policy didnt cover damage 
caused by rot. It offered him £50 to apologise for this. Mr O didnt accept this and brought his 
complaint to this service. He believes UKIs actions were fundamentally dishonest and 
wants it to be held accountable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She thought it 
was reasonable for UKI to investigate the claim and its proposed premium increase was fair. 
Mr O disagreed so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The exact nature and cause of the damage, as well as Mr 
Os occupation, are known to both parties so Im not going to set them out in more detail 
here. If Im vague about these details its to keep Mr O from being identified, not because 
Ive ignored them or think them irrelevant.
Mr O has sent us recordings of two separate calls with UKI where UKI staff confirmed the 
proposed premium increase was due to his July 2021 claim. So I understand why Mr O is 
annoyed that UKI told him he could make a claim.
Ive listened to Mr Os initial phone call to UKI on 8 July 2021. His first words were: I have a 
claim to make if thats possible [emphasis added]. Later in the conversation he said: I just 
want to make sure that 1) Im covered and that 2) [any repair work] is up to building reg 
standards So Im satisfied that the primary reason for Mr Os call was to see if he could 
make a claim for the rotten joists. 
The call handler told him UKI could consider his claim, which would be subject to a standard 
£500 excess for an escape of water claim. I think the call handlers comment about the 
excess is important because, in my opinion, it shows she didnt fully appreciate what Mr O 
was asking. Im satisfied that Mr O made it clear that his potential claim was for repairs to the 
rotten joists under the floor, not for any water damage. 
Page 13 of Mr Os policy booklet excludes Damage caused by or consisting of wet or dry 
rot so I dont think UKIs decision to decline the claim was unfair. However, I agree that 
UKIs call handler should have told Mr O he wasnt covered for the damage to the joists. Had 
she done so, Im sure Mr O wouldnt have gone ahead with the claim.
UKI has accepted this. Its letter to Mr O on 23 December 2021 said: The Claims Handler 
had an opportunity to make you aware that the policy did not cover damage caused by wet 
or dry rot. This information could have helped you make an informed decision, whether to 
register a claim or not. Thats why it offered him £50 to apologise. 
However, while I agree with Mr O that UKI should have told him his policy didnt cover the 
damage, that doesnt mean the proposed increased to his premium at renewal was unfair. 
At renewal an insurer will calculate the new premium it would like to charge. It will base this 
on what it knew from the previous year and anything it knows has changed in that time, for 
example if a claim has been made or an incident reported. It will also factor in any changes 
in its own risk appetite. 
Its important to note that this service cant tell an insurer what an insurance policy should 
cost. The risk of insuring a property is for the insurer, so its right that the insurer should 
decide how it assesses and prices risk. We generally accept that an insurer can charge what 
it likes for insurance so long as it acts fairly. This means, among other things, applying its 
pricing model consistently and giving policyholders the chance to shop around to try to find a 
lower quote from other insurers. Its then up to the policyholder to decide whether or not to 
accept an insurers quote. 
We asked UKI to send us detailed underwriting information about how it calculated Mr Os 
renewal premium but unfortunately UKI wouldnt provide this. Instead, it told us:
It would have increased Mr Os premium even if he hadnt made the claim. Thats 
because it had recorded the damage to the joists and factored this into its new quote. 
Mr Os policy had a £2,500 reserve for repairs recorded against it at renewal. The 
new premium would have been the same for any reserve between £0 and £10,000. 
In other words, the reserve didnt affect the quote.
The renewal was capped at a 50% increase and this is the same for all renewals of 
the same description. 
UKI also provided evidence showing Mr Os new premium would have been £408.04, up 
from £272.03 the previous year. This is an increase of 50%  not 62%, as Mr O believed  and in line with its internal price cap.
In summary, I agree with Mr O that UKI should have told him he wasnt covered for the 
damaged joists. The declined claim led to an increase in Mr Os renewal premium for the 
following year. However, Im satisfied that UKI would have increased Mr Os premium even if 
he hadnt made the claim. Thats because it recorded the damaged floor joists, and this 
would have been considered when UKI calculated Mr Os new premium. As a result, I dont 
agree that UKI tried to increase Mr Os premium unfairly. Mr O didnt accept the quote, used 
his right to look for cheaper cover elsewhere, and switched insurer.
I know Mr O feels strongly about this, but I think UKIs offer of £50 to apologise for not telling 
him his policy didnt cover the damaged joists is fair. Ill leave it to Mr O to decide whether he 
wants to accept this. I wont be asking UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think UKIs offer is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman