DRN-4435433
The complaint
Mr C believes Startline Motor Finance Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire 
purchase agreement hed applied for.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. He paid a deposit of £250, and the agreement was for £9,000 over 48 months; with 
48 monthly payments of £205.80 and a final payment of £3,208 if Mr C wanted to keep the 
car.
Mr C has complained that Startline didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said that, at the point when he made his application, he had several defaults as well as 
payments arrangements with other lenders. He also said that his income at the time was 
£3,250 a month (including child benefit) while his committed outgoings were £3,120 a month. 
So, he didnt think the payments were affordable. 
Startline considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr C could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think the checks Startline had done were adequate, and she thought 
they shouldve taken further steps to verify Mr Cs committed expenses. However, she also 
said that, had Startline done this, it wouldve shown the finance was affordable for Mr C. So, 
she didnt think Startline needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his payments to HMRC related to 
underpaid personal tax, and didnt relate to his consultancy business, for which he only 
received £5,127 income between September 2019 and March 2022. Mr C also said that his 
child benefit was due to end in August 2021, although he acknowledges he didnt advise 
Startline of this fact. 
Finally, Mr C said he had a gambling addiction, which he didnt make Startline aware of, 
which was costing him between £500 and £1,000 a month. He said he had to take out 
additional loans because of this to enable him to keep up payments, loans which we have 
already decided were unaffordable to him. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Startline make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Startline didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Cs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Startline have explained that they verified Mr Cs income and expenditure through a credit 
reference agency, which confirmed the finance hed applied for was affordable. They said 
that, although Mr C had historic credit problems, he was actively paying into a debt 
management plan (DMP) and had less than one payment remaining.
However, Startline havent provided anything to evidence the checks they actually carried 
out. As such, I cant be satisfied that these checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
Therefore, Ive gone on to consider what Startline would likely have found had reasonable 
and proportionate checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr C has provided a copy of his credit report. However, the copy hes supplied is dated 
September 2019, which is almost two years before he applied for the finance with Startline. 
While hes said this shows some of the bad debts he had at the time, his financial situation 
wouldve changed between September 2019 and June 2021. As such, Im satisfied that most 
of the information contained on this credit report isnt relevant to what Startline wouldve 
seen when assessing Mr Cs application.
However, this report does show DMPs that, based on the balances and payments Mr C was 
making, would still most likely be active in June 2021.
I wouldnt have expected Startline to decline this application just because Mr C had some 
historic credit problems  they are a lender that specialises in lending to customers with such 
issues. But I would expect Startline to take these into consideration when making their 
lending decision.
Mr C has also provided copies of his bank statements for the period 4 March 2021 to 3 
August 2021. While I wouldnt have expected Startline to have asked Mr C for copies of 
these, as Mr C took out the finance with Startline at the end of June 2021, Im satisfied that 
the statements for 1 April to 30 June 2021 would give a good indication of what Startline 
would likely have taken into consideration had they asked Mr C to prove his income and 
committed expenditure during that specific period.The bank statements show that Mr C received an income from his employers that increased 
from £3,152 a month to £3,206 a month in June 2021. Although this doesnt show on the 
statements that have been provided, as it was paid into his wifes account, its not disputed 
that Mr C also received £80 a month child benefit income. While Ive noted Mr Cs comments 
that this was due to end in August 2021, hes also confirmed he never made Startline aware 
of this. As such, Im satisfied its reasonable for this to be considered as income.
Mr C also received an average of £371 a month from a consultancy firm he owned. While 
Ive again noted his comments about the amount of profit this firm generated, and that he 
was receiving furlough income that stopped in October 2021, the firm was a limited 
company, therefore a separate legal entity. So, Mr C was essentially receiving a second 
salary. And hes confirmed he never told Startline that this income was due to end shortly. 
As such, when looking at what Startline would reasonably have known, Im satisfied its 
reasonable to include this second salary as part of Mr Cs income.
Given the above, Mr C wouldve had an average monthly income of £3,657 at the time of his 
application to Startline.
The bank statements show that Mr C regularly transferred money to another account he 
says he used to pay some bills. While he hasnt provided copies of the statements for this 
second account, he has provided a breakdown of the bills he says this money was used for. 
And the amounts he paid roughly match with the amount of the bills Mr C has declared. As 
such, Ive considered this when looking at Mr Cs expenditure at the time of his application.
Mr C spent £800 a month on his mortgage, council tax, and utility bills; an average of £170 a 
month on TV, telephone, and internet; £144 a month on various insurances; and £20 a 
month on car tax and breakdown cover. Mr C also spent £1,327 a month on servicing his 
existing debts, including the money owed to HMRC and payments to his DMPs. So, he had 
total committed expenditure of £2,461, giving him £1,196 disposable income each month.
Mr C has said he spent around £700 a month on food, clothing, transport etc., as well as 
saying he was addicted to gambling. Ive looked at the net gambling transactions on these 
bank statements, and they reduced from £961 in April 2021, to £751 in May 2021, and again 
to £112 in June 2021. Mr C also acknowledges that he didnt tell Startline he had a gambling 
problem.
So, even if Startline had reviewed the bank statements, these wouldve shown that Mr C was 
gambling a reducing amount each month. And I dont consider this to be something that 
shouldve meant Startline shouldnt have approved the finance.
Finally, Mr C has commented that loans he took out after the finance with Startline was 
approved have been determined to have been unaffordable at the time. While I dont doubt 
this is the case, these loans were taken after the loan with Startline. And any determination 
wouldve been made based on Mr Cs affordability at the time of these applications. As such, 
I dont consider what happened after the application to Startline has any bearing on the 
decision Startline made.
So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Im satisfied that, had 
Startline carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid reason why 
they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for this reason 
why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mr C paid, or of any interest 
and fees he may have been charged.
Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I havent seen anything to make me think Startline acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Startline Motor 
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman