DRN-3812927
The complaint
Mr H complains about problems he is having with a debit card issued by Monzo Bank Ltd.
What happened
Mr H complained to Monzo as his debit card had faded and they wouldnt issue him with a 
different coloured card.
There had been a promotion where different coloured cards were available if a customer 
referred two friends to Monzo. Mr H said he didnt have the means to refer two other friends 
and asked for a different coloured card to be issued to him.
Monzo said that different coloured debits cards were only available on fee paying accounts 
or through the promotion. And since Mr H held a free account he would only be issued with 
the usual coral coloured card. They said if the coral coloured card had faded he could get in 
touch for a replacement.
Mr H remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. Mr H said the card issue was important as he was 
partially colour blind. So it was arranged for the vulnerable contact team from Monzo to 
speak with Mr H. Whilst taking onboard the feedback Monzo maintained that they wouldnt 
issue a different coloured card on a free account.
Our Investigator considered everything and thought the offer to replace the faded coral 
coloured card free of charge along with the £15 already paid was a fair outcome. They also 
explained it was possible to obtain the card details through the banking app without the need 
for a physical card. Mr H disagreed saying Monzo should issue him with a different coloured 
card, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure him that Ive read and considered everything 
that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised somethings which 
reflect the informal nature of our service. 
Monzo has explained the criteria for having a different coloured debit card is either through a 
promotion, or by having a fee paying account. Mr H doesnt meet either criteria so hasnt 
been issued a coloured card. Because of this I cant say that Monzo has acted unfairly.
Mr H was concerned as his coral coloured card had faded. Monzo explained that he could 
order a replacement card free of charge which I think is fair. Mr H says the colour fades so it 
would be pointless to order a replacement. I cant say why the colour fades for Mr H but 
offering a free replacement is a reasonable resolution. 
Our Investigator organised for the vulnerable contact team at Monzo to speak with Mr H but 
a solution couldnt be agreed. Monzo took into account Mr Hs personal circumstances, as 
did our Investigator, and as have I. But this doesnt mean that Monzo is required to issue a 
card which Mr H isnt eligible for. Monzo have explained how Mr H can obtain a different 
coloured card and taken onboard his feedback.
Mr H feels that Monzo hasnt treated him fairly by taking into account his personal 
circumstances and want for a different coloured card. I can understand why Mr H feels this 
way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think Monzo has done so. Nor do I think 
theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope it helps Mr H to know that someone impartial 
and independent has looked into his concerns.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the £15 Monzo paid Mr H 
is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint so I wont be asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman