DRN-2317453
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs B took out in 
2015 on the advice of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B are represented in this complaint by their daughter, 
whom Ill refer to as Ms H. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr and Mrs B took the mortgage out in 2015. It replaced an existing equity release mortgage 
Mr and Mrs B had taken out several years earlier, also on advice provided by Key. 
The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is 
that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have 
happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Ms H brought the complaint on her parents behalf; she says it was mis-sold because its on 
a higher interest rate than the mortgage it replaced, and her parents incurred an ERC when 
the preceding mortgage was paid off. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld; Ms H asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs B are 
consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Ms H is 
bringing the complaint on her parents behalf.
But I must explain that, although Ms H represents her parents, it is they who are Keys 
customers. Its Ms Hs role is to bring the complaint on their behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Ms H to air her own grievances about Key, because she is not its 
customer; her role is limited to putting forward her parents complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Key did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2015. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Staying with the point of sale documentation for a moment, this recorded that Mr and Mrs B 
had made Ms H aware of the transaction and that she supported it. This is another bone of 
contention; Ms H says that didnt happen. As I said, point of sale documents arent 
fool-proof, but even if I treat that as a mistake, it isnt on its own a reason to find that the 
mortgage was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. 
Thats because its not a requirement (whether legal, moral, regulatory or any other reason) 
for equity release applicants to involve their family in the transaction. If they do not, thats not 
evidence of a procedural failing on the part of the advisor; its more likely to just be an 
indication that the applicants wished to keep their business private. The advisor should 
recommend applicants tell their family, and in proceeding with the application on the basis of 
the information-gathering exercise, Mr and Mrs B confirmed theyd done so.
The information-gathering exercise also identified specific financial objectives. Ms H says 
this was fictitious, but Id remind her that by proceeding with the application, her parents 
confirmed it to be true and accurate at the time. It also indicated, that Mr and Mrs B would 
need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise their stated objectives. 
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, its very 
unlikely that they would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given their age and 
circumstances, always assuming they wanted, or were able, to resume making regular 
monthly payments. That indicates to me that a new equity release was probably the only viable option for 
Mr and Mrs B in 2015 given the circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage Key 
arranged for Mr and Mrs B raised the money theyd asked for, after taking into account the 
transactions costs, which included the ERC to redeem the existing mortgage. It came with a 
higher rate than its predecessor, but it was the optimum rate available at that time.
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 15 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Looking again at Mr and Mrs Bs situation as recorded at the time and taking into account 
the reasons why Key recommended the particular lifetime mortgage it did, Im not convinced 
Mr and Mrs B would or could have done anything different from what they did. They had 
approached Key to say they needed more money, and this was the only way they could 
borrow it. In my view, that was the motivation for the mortgage being sold, rather than the 
commission earnings Key received for arranging it.
Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time. Its 
possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr and Mrs B subsequently changed 
their minds about what theyd do with the money, but Keys duty was to give suitable advice, 
which Im satisfied it did. Key couldnt insist Mr and Mrs B follow every aspect of the advice it 
had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers behaviour after the sale to 
ensure they did what theyd said they were going to do.
That brings me to the question of health. The suitability letter recorded Mr and Mrs B were 
generally in good health. Its reasonable to infer that this information came from Mr and 
Mrs B during the fact-find interview, and I again come back to the fact that Mr and Mrs B 
declared the information theyd given the advisor to be correct when they applied for the 
mortgage. 
Ms H has said this wasnt true and that in her opinion, her father was already suffering from 
dementia. The difficulty there is that Ms H hasnt adduced any medical evidence from that 
time to support her argument. This isnt actually something on which I can make a finding, 
not even on the balance of probabilities. To attempt to do so would require me to go beyond 
assessing what is most likely and resort to mere speculation; Im not prepared to do that. 
However, I dont believe I need to in order to decide this complaint. 
Thats because, before they took out the mortgage in 2015 Mr and Mrs B were required to 
have independent legal advice from a solicitor. The solicitor  chosen by them from a list 
provided by Key  confirmed that hed explained the terms of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs B. 
I think that if the solicitor had had any concerns that Mr and Mrs B didnt understand (or 
indeed, werent capable of understanding) the nature and effect of what they were signing, 
they wouldnt have been advised to proceed with it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman