DRN-3159685
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Ls complaint.      
Summary and background to complaint
Mrs L said Black Horse Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
loan in 2006.
Black Horse didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mrs L had referred the complaint to us too late. 
  
But Black Horse did pay back (in 2019) the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mrs Ls PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mrs L about the high level 
of commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Ls complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Black Horses payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Black Horse hasnt agreed.  
Mrs Ls mis-sale complaint was made on 25 March 2019. This is more than six years after 
Black Horse sold the policy to her  in 2006  which is the event shes complaining about 
here. So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when 
Mrs L should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Black Horse says it sent Mrs L a letter on 10 July 2013, which alerted her to the possibility 
something might have gone wrong with her policy sale. Given what Mrs L is complaining 
about, I think she should reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain when 
she got this letter. 
I say this because the letter said that something might have gone wrong with the sales of 
PPI around the time Mrs L took out her policy and it gave some examples of the kind of 
problems it had identified  some of the things Mrs L is now complaining about. It also 
invited Mrs L to raise any concerns she had about her own policy sale in light of its general 
findings that PPI might have been mis-sold.
I can see from Black Horses records that the letter was sent to the right address  Mrs L 
hadnt changed her address since she took out the loan. And I havent been told about any 
reason why she might not have received it (like problems with her post). So Im satisfied it 
was most likely delivered correctly.
Three years from the letter is 10 July 2016, which in this case does extend the six-year 
deadline mentioned above. This means Mrs L needed to make her complaint about the 
policy sale by 10 July 2016. As she didnt complain until March 2019 her complaint is out of 
time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Mrs L hasnt given any real reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs L with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Black Horse didnt tell Mrs L about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Black Horse and Mrs L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Black Horse didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs L because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipRedress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ls representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs L should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Black Horse failed to tell Mrs L about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs L wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs L in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Black Horse not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ls representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Black Horses failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Black Horse to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs L paid for her PPI policy -  I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. So I consider that Black Horses payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Black Horse has already paid Mrs L compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Ls complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Black 
Horse Limited should pay Mrs L an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable.) As 
Black Horse Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 17 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman