DRN-3793967
The complaint
Mr B says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly by providing 
him with an overdraft and allowing him to increase his limit to £2,000. He says this caused 
him financial difficulty as he had excessive borrowing with other creditors.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks that should have led to Nationwide questioning the lending and 
didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Bs complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
B would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Nationwide did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Bs overdraft. Mr B was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks Nationwide carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether Mr B would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Nationwide says Mr B had an initial overdraft with a limit of £100 in February 2021 which 
increased to its highest limit of £2,000 by November 2021. I can see from Mr Bs bank 
statements that from this point on the overdraft limit started reducing so that by February 
2022 it was down to £1,000 and by March it had been repaid. 
All overdraft limit increase applications were fully credit scored taking into account 
information Mr B provided about his income and how Mr B had managed his accounts held 
with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. 
No adverse information came up on the credit checks and Mr B had a regular healthy salary 
coming in and at times he was in receipt of other large credits coming into his account prior 
to the overdraft applications being approved. Based on this information Nationwide was 
satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility and limits he 
requested.
I accept that Mr Bs financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Nationwide at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Nationwide this. But Nationwide was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit checks it carried out. And given there wasnt any adverse 
information shown on the credit check, he had a regular healthy salary coming in and his 
accounts with Nationwide were all being managed well I think Nationwides checks went far 
enough. 
So I dont agree that Nationwide acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr B to increase his 
overdraft limit. Nationwide carried out the appropriate credit checks on Mr B and were 
entitled to rely on the information provided to it when assessing Mr Bs overdraft 
applications. And given the credits going into the account exceeded the overdraft limit, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude Mr B would be able to repay 
the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Nationwide provided Mr B with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Bs overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, 
Nationwide still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Nationwide didnt treat Mr B fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Nationwide did treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably though. 
I say this because having looked at Mr Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Nationwide ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior 
to it being notified of this. 
I accept that Mr Bs did use his overdraft, but for period Ive looked at (November 2020 to 
February 2022) once Mr Bs overdraft was approved in February 2021, Mr B was able to pay 
off his overdraft every month. Mr B never exceeded his limit and a few months after the 
overdraft was at its highest Mr B managed to pay it off in full and have the overdraft 
removed. 
I accept that this doesnt necessarily mean Mr B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Nationwide to any potential financial difficulty before Mr B got in touch. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed with adding 
the interest, fees and charges it did. 
So I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman