DRN-1654957
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) did not give him correct information 
about his 123 account, and he lost money as a result.
What happened
Mr M took out a 123 account with Santander and deposited a large sum of money in it.
The 123 account cost £5 a month and paid out interest and cashback. The terms and 
conditions of the account included that he must have two direct debits coming out of the 
account.
Initially he had two direct debits on the account, but one stopped in February 2019, and he 
received no further interest or cashback after that. 
Mr M says that Santander gave him incorrect information about his account, and he lost out 
financially as a result.
Santander says it gave Mr M the correct information about his account.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr M disagrees so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The principle behind the Santander 123 account is that if a customer has two direct debits on 
the account and pays in more than £500 per month, the account pays out a certain level of 
interest and cashback if a fee of £5 a month is paid. If any of these conditions are not met, 
there is no interest or cashback on the account, although the monthly fee of £5 will continue 
to be charged if the account is not closed.
I think it its more likely than not that Mr M had enough information to understand this when 
he opened his 123 account. I say this because the account was set up correctly and 
functioned perfectly well for a significant period of time; Mr M invested up to £20,000 in the 
account, and I dont think he would have done this without thoroughly understanding how it 
worked; and he says that when one of his direct debit debits ceased, he realised this was 
significant and he asked Santander about what would happen with the account.
The issue in this case appears to be that Mr M says that two of Santanders employees in a 
branch meeting misled him when one of his direct debits ceased. 
He says he asked them if the standing order he had on his account that was paying into a 
savings account he held, was enough to replace one of the two direct debits so that he 
continued to qualify for the 123 account interest and cashback. 
He says that Santanders employees responded that it would. 
Santander says its employees would not have told Mr M that the standing order could 
replace the direct debit to maintain the interest and cashback on the account.
Its impossible for me know what was said in the branch meeting as I wasnt there and there 
is no record of the discussion. So, I must consider what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive decided that I think its more likely than not that Santanders employees didnt tell Mr M 
the standing order was sufficient for him to continue receiving interest and cashback and Ill 
explain why.
The 123 account was set up in a particular way, that is with a defined amount of money 
required to come in and two direct debits required going out. It was a flagship account for 
Santander, and I think Santander employees would have been trained on it, asked to 
promote it to customers and probably handled the accounts every day.
So, I think its more likely than not that any Santander employee would know the relevant 
details of how the 123 account worked.
In addition, in my view there is a big difference between a direct debit, which gives a third-
party permission to take varying amounts of money from the account; and a standing order, 
where the account holder gives the bank permission to pay a set amount each month to 
another account. 
And again, I think its more likely than not that any Santander employee would have been 
trained on and know this fundamental difference as they would work with such things every 
day.
I dont doubt Mr Ms honest recollections, Ive listened to his phone calls with Santander 
about this and he sincerely believes what he has been saying. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, I think its more likely than not that Mr M misunderstood what Santanders employees 
said to him and he came away with a mistaken picture of what he needed to do. 
Mr M has also raised the issue of whether Santander should have contacted him about the 
fact he wouldnt get any interest or cashback once hed stopped his direct debit and wasnt 
meeting the terms and conditions to do so. 
In my view there was no obligation on Santander to contact him, it was Mr Ms responsibility 
to manage his account and either set up a second direct debit or close the account as he 
wished.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, I dont think Santander did anything 
wrong in not paying him interest and cashback on his account, while still charging him for the 
account in line with the accounts terms and conditions once his second direct debit had 
stopped.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman