DRN-3043435
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
Portafina to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) she held with 
her former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mrs M says the advice was 
negligent and she has since lost out. 
What happened
Mrs M was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after shed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. 
Following several conversations with Mrs M, Portafina produced a suitability report setting 
out its advice. In summary the report said: 
Mrs Ms circumstances:
- She was 59 years old, a widow and unemployed 
- Her income came from state benefits (Disability Living Allowance and 
Employment and Support Allowance)
- She had no recorded savings or investments and lived in rented accommodation
- She had no other pension plans beside her OPS 
Regarding Mrs Ms OPS:
- Her preserved, local government OPS was projected to pay an income of £2,706 
from age 65, or £2,209 if tax free cash of £14,725 was taken
- The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £60,000
It was recorded that Mrs M required a lump sum payment from her pension to purchase a 
mobility scooter, go on holiday and retain the remainder as an emergency fund. It was noted 
that she wanted to take 10% of her pension, £6,000, to meet these needs. Portafina carried 
out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Mrs M had a balanced attitude to risk (ATR). 
The Critical Yield required to match Mrs Ms pension benefits was 7.3%. The Hurdle rate 
was 3.92%. Portafina believed that a growth rate of 6.13% was achievable, based on Mrs 
Ms risk classification. Portafina recommend that she transfer her OPS benefits into a new 
SIPP to achieve her objectives of obtaining the TFC. It also said that the investment advice 
would be provided to Mrs M by Firm C.
The new SIPP was opened and the CETV of £63,358.46 was transferred in on 6 July 2015. 
£10,000 was withdrawn as TFC on 8 July 2015, with an additional £4,000 withdrawn on 10 
November 2016. The pension was invested across a range of unit linked funds from 
inception, which were bought and sold at regular intervals, but it has only been invested in 
the EF FACET Cautious Discretionary Portfolio B since 2 May 2018.
In August 2018, Mrs M complained to Portafina about the advice she received to transfer. 
She said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for someone with no investment 
experience, a low attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. 
Portafina rejected Mrs Ms complaint, in a letter dated 17 October 2018, stating that any 
grievances relating to the underlying investment were the responsibility of Firm C. It noted 
that the recommendation was in line with Mrs Ms main objective to release tax-free cash 
(TFC) at 59, maximise her death benefits and take on more risk with the residual fund.
Following this, Mrs M contacted the service on 16 April 2019.
Portafina initially said that we couldnt consider Mrs Ms complaint, as it had issued an eight 
week holding letter to her on 11 October 2018, which contained referral rights for the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and was the trigger for her to contact the service. As she had 
not done this within six months of that letter, Portafina considered the complaint was out of 
time.
I issued an earlier decision, confirming that this service does have jurisdiction. This was 
because the letter Portafina relied upon didnt meet any of the criteria necessary to trigger 
the six-month time limit.
Following my decision, an adjudicator considered the merits of the complaint and concluded 
that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Portafinas advice was suitable. In 
summary his view said:
Based on rates published by the FCA, a reasonable growth rate to retirement was 
4.5%. The critical yield of 7.3% was significantly higher than this, demonstrating that 
the transfer was likely to leave Mrs M worse off 
The freedom to choose a retirement product that paid less than then benefits being 
given up was not a real freedom
Similarly, as the cost of gaining flexibility was likely to be thousands of pounds, the 
investigator didnt think it was a price worth paying
Only the purchase of a mobility scooter was an essential purchase. The holiday and 
emergency fund could have been deferred to a later date
As per the FCA Alert of 2013, Portafina had a duty of care to Mrs M to consider the 
underlying investment strategy when recommending the switch 
Portafina should have considered the underlying investments as part of their 
recommendation
Portafina disagreed with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
Mrs M had informed Portafina that she did not intend to purchase a lifetime annuity, 
therefor the critical yield of 7.3% was not relevant
As she intended to take income via drawdown, it had used the hurdle rate of 3.92%, 
which was lower than the model portfolios projected return of 6.13% and the 
adjudicators growth rate of 4.5%
Purchasing a mobility scooter could not be delayed to age 65 and Mrs M had no 
other means of raising the funds. The holiday and emergency fund were less 
essential but still valid
Mrs Ms health conditions reduced the value of her benefits from her OPS and 
opened up the possibility of being able to purchase an enhanced annuity at a later 
date
Portafina carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C and were satisfied that it 
could be used in the advice process to both introduce clients and provide the 
investment adviceThe regulators alert was not relevant, as it only applied when an unregulated firm 
was involved. Firm C were regulated and Mrs M could pursue a complaint against 
them
Portafina shouldnt be held responsible for the performance of the investment, as this 
was recommended by Firm C
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing the complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Having done so, Im of the view that the fair and 
reasonable outcome is that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Portafina advised Mrs M to transfer her OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as this was provided by 
Firm C. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange Mrs 
Ms underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities ended 
once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. I believe that as Mrs Ms financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure the 
overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be 
involved. 
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mrs M should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up 
what Portafina considered a model portfolio for a balanced investor. And its partly on the 
basis that Mrs M invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the relevant 
targeted returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase her overall pension 
benefits and therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mrs M it wasnt 
providing any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on 
the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I 
dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. Theres 
nothing in these alerts to suggest that they only apply when a firm is giving advice where an 
unregulated introducer is involved. So, Im satisfied that, even if the investment advice to Mrs 
M was being provided by another regulated firm, Portafina was reasonably required to 
consider the proposed underlying investments before advising on the transfer. And Im 
conscious that both the 2013 and 2014 alerts were issued prior to Mrs M receiving advice 
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed to do this.
In addition, under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or 
liability to Mrs M under the regulatory system. So, saying it wasnt providing advice on the 
investments didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mrs Ms funds would be invested.COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs M. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mrs M to ensure its recommendation met her objectives, that she could 
bear the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that she had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which she wishes to hold the investment, her 
preferences regarding risk taking, her risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mrs Ms objectives  one 
of which was being willing to take more risks  and the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore 
how Mrs Ms funds were going to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider 
the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the 
SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what Mrs M would 
invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined 
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind. 
Portafina doesnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP it recommended, it says it didnt negate or refuse to consider the investments; it 
just expected Firm C to invest Mrs M appropriately and according to her risk category. Its 
also quoted an extract from the regulators consultation paper dated March 2018. This states 
that:
Firms who use these models should ensure robust arrangements and processes are
in place with other firms they work with, so that roles, responsibilities and liabilities are clear. 
For example, responsibility for implementing the transfer itself, establishing liability if funds 
are not transferred to the expected destination fund and how disagreements between 
adviser firms are handled. Contractual arrangements and file records that state each 
adviser's actual role in providing advice are likely to be helpful if there is a complaint. It is 
important to be aware that firms cannot outsource any liability for the actual advice they have 
provided.
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mrs M, it couldnt provide her with 
suitable advice to transfer her OPS.Ive also considered the fact that Portafina completed due diligence checks before agreeing 
to accept client referrals from Firm C. And as a result of these checks it satisfied itself that 
Firm C was authorised and able to provide investment advice. Whilst these due diligence 
checks are important and helpful, I dont think they negate the need for reasonable and 
ongoing due diligence in connection with particular transactions, and this is particularly the 
case where it has agreed to an ongoing relationship with an introducer in the position of Firm 
C.
The checks Portafina made weren't specific to the investments envisaged for Mrs M. I also 
havent seen any evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself that 
the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice 
they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the suitability 
assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But I think it was also a reasonable 
due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with Firm C. This 
wouldve highlighted any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice, which could be 
identified and addressed.
Portafina says that Firm S and Firm C made assurances as to the nature of the investments 
recommended and that it wouldnt be recommending UCIS. But, from the information Ive 
been provided with, these assurances appear to have been taken from a compliance health 
check that was completed in May 2012, almost two years before Mrs M received advice. I 
think Portafina needed to have confirmed that this information was still current when it was 
assessing whether to accept referrals from Firm C. 
Portafina hasnt provided any further evidence to suggest it did this, and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence of repeated assurances provided by Firm S or Firm C. It appears 
that once the business relationship commenced, Portafina failed to take adequate steps to 
liaise with Firm C to ensure that its transfer advice was aligned with the investment advice 
Firm C was giving to clients, and to monitor the business on an ongoing basis, so that any 
patterns of unsuitable advice might be identified and addressed.  In any event, as was 
clearly set out in the regulators alerts in both 2013 and 2014, Portafina couldnt restrict its 
advice merely to the transfer; it had to consider the proposed investments for Mrs M, which it 
didnt do. 
In my view, Portafina shouldve done more to ensure it understood the types of investments 
Firm C would be recommending, and in particular in connection with Mrs Ms proposed 
transfer. As Ive said, I wouldve expected Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as 
to the intended portfolio for Mrs M.  Without this information, Im not satisfied that Portafina 
could reasonably assess the suitability of the transfer.
Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to
invest Mrs M in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was
with her established attitude to risk. And in the event that Portafina had been misled by 
Firm C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mrs M wouldve realised that the 
investments Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability 
assessment on. And Mrs M couldve taken action accordingly.
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mrs Ms appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mrs Ms best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness 
of where Mrs Ms funds would be invested. As it is, Portafina assessed Mrs M as having a balanced ATR and its suitability report 
outlined its recommendations based what it believed would be Firm Cs model portfolio for 
an investor with Mrs Ms risk profile. However, I dont agree the model portfolio was suitable 
Mrs Ms attitude to risk in any event. I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 
18% of the pension fund should be invested in secure structured bonds. These are 
described in the suitability report as asset back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. 
The report goes on to explain that these are not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that there are credit risks - due to the possibility of the 
company borrowing the money going into default - and liquidity risks. In my view, this puts 
them at the higher end of the risk spectrum and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable 
for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a 
portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of Mrs Ms pension fund in unregulated and potentially 
illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a client in Mrs Ms position.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mrs Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that 
she transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mrs M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as she did.
The advice to transfer 
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mrs M was 59 years old, unemployed and living in rented 
accommodation. Mrs M had minimal savings, or investments and had outstanding debt of 
£210. It is not known what this debt related to, as it was simply recorded as Christmas.
Transferring her OPS meant that Mrs M would be losing her guarantees and instead relying 
on investment performance from a new scheme. But I dont think her situation lent itself to 
taking such risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mrs M may have been open to 
taking some risk, she wasnt able to take a significant amount. Mrs M has stated that she 
had a low attitude to risk (ATR) and a low capacity for loss. Based on the information from 
the point of advice, I am inclined to agree with this.Based on a risk profile Mrs M completed, Portafina said it believed she had a balanced ATR. 
Her risk-profile was derived from the answers she gave to a third-party profiling tool. This 
took the form of a series of statements with which the consumer could agree or disagree. It 
is a useful tool in establishing attitude to risk but is not the only consideration and certainly 
should not override all the other information available. Portafina had a duty to query any 
results which did not tally with the known facts for Mrs M.
Portafina defined a balanced investor as having moderate levels of knowledge and may 
have some experience of investments. They are willing to take risks with at least part of their 
assets and will be prepared to give up a certain amount of income for a gamble, provided 
that the potential rewards are high enough.
I do not believe that it is an accurate summary of Mrs Ms circumstances and attitude to risk. 
Mrs M had no investment experience and no savings. She was entirely reliant upon state 
benefits and had no means of replacing any losses to capital. Her OPS was her only 
recorded source of private income in retirement and she could not afford to expose it to any 
significant degree of risk when she only had 6 to 7 years until retirement.
This was supported by the section of the report Tolerance and capacity for Loss, which 
recorded that Mrs M had the capacity to afford to lose 10% of her fund before it started to 
affect her standard of living. A customers capacity to accept risk is as important, if not more 
so, than her tolerance of risk and I do not believe that an investor who was only able to 
accept losses of 10% of her fund can reasonably be described as having a balanced attitude 
to risk.
Given these factors, I do not believe that Mrs M was in a position to be able to expose her 
OPS benefits to anything other than a low level of risk in the short time before they were due 
to become payable.
Portafina also didnt establish what Mrs Ms future liabilities and income requirements were 
likely to be in retirement. So Portafina couldnt say with confidence that transferring was 
necessary to meet her future income needs or to what extent she was likely to be dependent 
on her OPS in retirement. 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits that are being given up by transferring out of the OPS. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including the investors 
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1. compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme;
2. ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3. give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key features 
document is provided; and
4. take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison 
and its advice.COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1. take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
At the time of the advice, the regulators assumed future growth rates for personal pension 
illustrations were 2% (low); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case.
In terms of the investment risk Mrs M would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced 
a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. This showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS was 7.3%. So the transfer value needed to consistently grow at a rate 
of around 7.3% each year for her not to be financially worse off by transferring. This was 
high and exceeded the highest maximum projected growth rate at the time. But if the transfer 
was only going to match the benefits given up thered be little point in transferring  there 
needed to be a reasonable prospect the consumer would be better off, so I think a return in 
excess of 8% would be required in order to justify the transfer and Im not satisfied that was 
a reasonable expectation. Im also mindful that Portafinas critical yield calculation was 
based on Mrs Ms full transfer value and didnt take account of all the charges. So may have 
been somewhat understated. 
It seems that in order to make the transfer seem viable, Portafina based its recommendation 
on the lifetime hurdle rate of 3.92% instead of the critical yield, saying that Mrs M had 
informed them she did not intend to purchase an annuity and therefore the critical yield was 
not relevant. 
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle rate. This hurdle rate of 3.92% 
also doesnt appear to have allowed for associated charges so again may be understated. 
I appreciate that the adjudicator referred to a discount rate of 4.5% as being the level of 
growth an investor could expect to achieve over Mrs Ms term to retirement and this is 
greater than the hurdle rate. However, it should be borne in mind that this rate does not 
make any allowance for charges or attitude to risk. In other words, an individual investing in 
low risk funds and paying charges of 1% a year could expect a level of growth significantly 
lower than 4.5%.
The Annual Management Charge (AMC) for the SIPP was recorded as 0.5% on the report 
and although Firm Cs AMC was not listed, similar cases involving the same firm have 
confirmed it was also 0.5%. With this in mind, the expected growth rate of 4.5% would 
reduce to less than 3.5%, meaning expected returns are lower than the hurdle rate of 3.92%. 
In short, transferring away from her OPS would leave her worse of financially, whichever 
measurement was used.I cannot see that there was any explanation as to why Mrs M wanted or needed to take her 
benefits flexibly in retirement. A desire for income flexibility implies that a lower income 
would be taken in some years, but as she had no other recorded pension provision, there is 
nothing to show how any reduction could be replaced from other areas. Mrs M did not have 
any private assets of her own, such as property or investments, and there was no 
explanation why she did not want to guarantee at least some level of security of income in 
retirement.
Portafina have argued that underlying health conditions would reduce the value of her DB 
pension by shortening her life and this also opened up the possibility of taking an enhanced 
annuity if required. These arguments are undermined by the fact that Portafinas suitability 
report noted her life expectancy as 86 and stated on page 9 that her health is currently fine. 
The IFA did not attempted to establish what impact, if any, Mrs Ms health actually had on 
life expectancy. Furthermore, there was no comparison between the level of annuity she 
might expect at age 65, based on standard rates, and what level of enhancement she might 
qualify for, based on her medical history. As such, there is no way of knowing if this 
argument about enhanced annuities is correct, or purely speculative. 
The Suitability Report noted that one of Mrs Ms objectives was to achieve greater death 
benefits. This argument formed part of Portafinas response to Mrs M, but has not been 
repeated by the business in its correspondence with the service. I feel this argument should 
be addressed for completeness, as any perceived desire for additional death benefits are not 
worth the cost of Mrs M giving up her guaranteed income. The SIPP Nomination/Expression 
of Wish form shows that the Mrs Ms niece was to receive the benefits of the pension in the 
event of her death. Her niece lived at a different address and not with her. There is no 
reason why a consumer would need to give up guaranteed income in retirement in order to 
provide a greater level of death benefit for a non-dependant relation. Furthermore, as noted 
above, there was nothing to suggest Mrs M was in ill health, such that it wasnt expected that 
her pension fund would need to support her for a long time.
There were three reasons recorded for wanting to access TFC at that point: to provide an 
emergency fund, to pay for a holiday and to purchase a mobility scooter.
Mrs M did not have an emergency fund and it is normally beneficial for consumers to have 
one, or at least try to build one up. However, the need was not so great that she should have 
forfeited guaranteed pension income to meet this goal. It is worth considering how likely it 
would be that a situation would arise where Mrs M needed to access an emergency fund. 
The consumer was already reliant on state benefits, so a sudden unexpected reduction in 
income which would need to be covered by savings was unlikely to occur. Furthermore, she 
lived in rented accommodation, therefore any unexpected costs relating to her home would 
be met by the landlord, thereby limiting the areas where emergency expenditure might arise.
Needless to say, giving up a guaranteed pension to access TFC in order to fund a holiday is 
not a compelling reason to transfer. The only reason which could justify the transfer is 
Mrs Ms desire to purchase a mobility scooter.
The adjudicator argued that Mrs M could have funded the purchase through her disposable 
income, which was recorded as £500 a month. However, her disposable income was based 
on expenditure of just £157 a month. This is unrealistically low. The fact find from 2014 
showed she had no savings and still had £210 of Christmas debts in August. When her total 
monthly income was £755, I would be inclined to assume she had very little or no disposable 
income.The question is whether the need for a mobility scooter, which would be unlikely to cost 
more than a few thousand pounds, was so great that she had to access her pension lump 
sum. There was no record of the actual cost of the scooter by the IFA, or any discussion of 
alternative funding methods, such as loans, hire purchase, or applying for 
council/government grants. In the absence of any information which an adviser would need 
to demonstrate that Mrs Ms only option was to access TFC, I do not believe that transferring 
her OPS was in the consumers best interest.
Although I appreciate retirement planning may have regard for an individuals general 
preferences, its primary focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to 
putting them in the best possible position at retirement, with the appropriate income 
provision in place long-term. 
So, it wasnt Portafinas role to simply justify and make the transfer happen because it met 
Mrs Ms objective of enabling flexibility, releasing cash and providing a notionally higher 
death benefit. It had a responsibility to challenge these objectives and not accept them at 
face value. I cant see that it did this and I dont think the consumer was provided with a clear 
picture of the extent of what was available under her OPS, compared to the perceived 
benefit of transferring. So overall, Im not satisfied it was appropriate for Portafinas reasons 
for the transfer, which in my view werent compelling, to be the basis for its recommendation.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
I dont think the advice for Mrs M to transfer was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what she shouldve been advised to take. Accordingly, I dont think it was in her best 
interests. Although Portafina provided Mrs M with information about the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for her to make an 
informed decision about whether to transfer.
Under COBS 19.1.6 the regulator says a firm should only consider a transfer to be suitable 
if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence that the transfer is in the clients 
best interests. Im afraid I dont think Portafina met this test in this case. I dont agree that 
making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mrs Ms recorded objectives was 
enough. In my view, if Mrs M had been properly informed of the benefits she was 
relinquishing in the form of clear projections and comparisons with what might be available 
via income drawdown or an annuity purchase at relevant intervals I think it wouldve been 
clear the transfer wasnt in her best interests. 
Would Mrs M have gone ahead with the transfer anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if shed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, Mrs 
M would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe she would. Mrs M went ahead with the transfer on 
the understanding that she was unlikely to be financially disadvantaged in the long term and 
taking TFC at that time was her only means of meeting her objectives. This was not the 
case. Had she been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Mrs M would have 
chosen to maintain her OPS.
As a professional adviser which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mrs M from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept 
its possible Mrs M may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against this, that would have made her think about things. Alternatively, had Mrs M proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to her appropriately. For example, it couldve treated her as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mrs M was acting against the advice 
shed been given.
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mrs M when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mrs Ms 
needs was being made on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mrs Ms SIPP was invested.
I think it was clear from the outset that Mrs M was seeking to rely on the advice she 
reasonably expected to obtain from Portafina. And I think Portafinas failings in appropriately 
assessing the overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending played a pivotal role 
in Mrs Ms decision to transfer.  
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mrs M are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
she would have gone ahead with the transfer of her OPS or the subsequent UCIS 
investments.  
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mrs Ms loss?
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning responsibility to 
Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything 
Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its responsibility for Mrs Ms 
losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension switch advice and investment advice.  Portafina advised Mrs 
M to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for her existing pension benefits to 
be switched over. 
I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mrs M to invest a significant share of her SIPP funds in 
unsuitable funds. But I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible for Mrs Ms loss. 
Ultimately Portafina recommended Mrs M should transfer her OPS benefits to the SIPP, 
without ensuring the subsequent investments she would go on to make, through Firm C 
were suitable for her. So, in my view, the entirety of Mrs Ms loss stems from Portafinas 
unsuitable advice to transfer away from OPS where she had guaranteed benefits.  
Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the 
SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was 
advising Mrs M on the investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas involvement that 
Mrs M transferred her OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual 
investments were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, 
she couldnt have invested as she did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. Mrs M hasnt complained about 
Firm C or Firm S and in light of their liquidation, there would be little point in her doing so.  She has complained about Portafina and because of what I have said, it is, in my view, fair 
and reasonable that Portafina should account to her for the full extent of her losses
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mrs M 
suffered in switching her OPS to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs M, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs M 
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina should therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portafina must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the date
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mrs M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mrs M.As Ive said, my aim is to return Mrs M to the position she would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable or unwilling to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mrs M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mrs M to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman