DRN-4317552
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected his claim against it under 
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). 
What happened
Mr H bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2012. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and Mr H made a claim under section 140 of the Act to Ikano. 
He said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out 
not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced him to enter into the 
contract with supplier. Mr H made the following points:
The system would be fully "Self-Funding" and that no cost would be incurred.
Mr H was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £3,736.32.
Mr H would not have entered into the agreements if he was not misled or understood 
that he would have to contribute in excess of £2,981.72 per year for 10 years.
The credit agreement will be "self-funded" by virtue of the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
payments generated by the System.
The CMC added that it believes Ikano failed to assess Mr Hs creditworthiness and 
failed to disclose any commission it paid to the supplier. 
That Mr H wasnt provided with a cooling off period or cancellation period. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought that the documents 
from the time of sale (which Mr H signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel 
system would not cover the cost of the system within the loan term and therefore the system 
would not be immediately self-funding. He added that based on the performance of the 
system, it had overperformed in comparison to the estimates given by the supplier and that it 
was likely the system would be self-funding over a 10-year period. Overall, the investigator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr H disagreed. He said (through the CMC) that the benefits he was promised had not 
materialised and this misrepresentation hadnt been addressed. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, the complaint was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 8 August 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Ikano nor Mr H made any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Both Ikano and the CMC are familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-
established approach. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document. The page setting out the performance estimates of the solar panels sets out the 
cost of the solar panel system on the same page as the total estimated year 1 benefit. 
Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. 
And Mr H has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, 
seen this comparison when he signed the document.
I think its clear from this section that Mr Hs total year one benefit was only £477.22. 
This section sets out the total cost was £7,473, the amount of credit Mr H was taking out was 
£5,230. It also notes 24 x 0% as the finance type. I think this likely represents the fact that 
Mr H took out a 24-month loan with 0% interest. So, Im satisfied that Mr H was aware of 
how much the system cost and that hed be taking out a two-year loan to fund the purchase. 
Mr H has signed directly beneath this section, so I think that he would have seen these 
figures at the time he signed the document. Normally the sales document reflects the nature 
of the discussions the sales representative has with consumers. Overall, Im persuaded that 
Mr H would have known that his first-year benefit was around £477 would be significantly 
less than his annual payments of around £2,615 (half the cost of the two-year loan) without 
needing to do any calculations.
I understand Mr H has submitted a different estimated returns document which a different 
estimated first year benefit. But this was not signed or dated, and Mr H has provided no 
details as to when or how this document was given to him. In any event, if Mr H had been 
told something different, on being asked to sign the sales contract document with the first-
year benefit of £477, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. 
Ive seen no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that the document he signed most 
likely did not contradict Mr Hs understanding at that time. So, I think the signed contract 
reflects the figures he was given at the time he signed the document and agreed to the sale. 
Therefore, its more reliable evidence of the information he relied on during the sale. 
His FIT income is only £370.49 which wouldnt even cover two of his monthly payments 
(which I understand were just under £218 a month). So, I dont think theres enough 
evidence that he was told the monthly payments on the credit agreement would be covered 
by the FIT payments alone. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding at the outset or within the term of the loan either by the FIT payments alone, or the 
total benefits received by the system. I think it was apparent that there would likely be a 
significant shortfall between the cost of the system and the benefit he would receive during 
the term of the loan. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr H was promised a tax-free year 1 benefit of £3,736.32. I also 
dont understand Mr Hs claim that he would have to contribute in excess of £2,981.72 per 
year for 10 years. From what I can see, after the two-year loan was repaid, Mr H would not 
have had to pay anything else towards the cost of the system. 
Performance 
The CMC has recently alleged that that Mr H hasnt received the benefits he was promised. 
But the CMC has also told us that based on the customers actual Feed In tariff (FIT) 
payments, his annual benefit prorated to a 12-month period equates to £754.60. This is 
significantly more than the FIT estimates on the contract which was £370.49. Even on the 
undated and unsigned estimated returns, the FIT income is only £446.81. 
Mr H hasnt told us what the savings on his bills are and he hasnt submitted any bills (either 
pre/post installation). So, I dont know what (if any) savings he has achieved and whether or 
not they are in line with the suppliers estimates. But I havent seen any evidence that the 
system hasnt performed as expected. The only evidence of performance that I have seen, 
are of the FIT payments and this shows the system has significantly overperformed in 
comparison to the suppliers estimates. 
I would add that the signed document Mr H has sent in explicitly says that it is impossible to 
predict the performance of the system with certainty and that any estimates given should be 
seen as a guide and not a guarantee. Overall, I havent seen sufficient evidence that that the 
system has not performed in line with the estimates given. And in any event, Mr H wasnt 
given any guarantees of performance. 
Self-funding over 10 years 
I would add that even without savings, Mr Hs FIT income over 10 years is likely to be more 
than the total cost of the system. So, like our investigator says, I think its more likely the 
system will be self-funding over 10 years. 
Mr H hasnt alleged that he was told the system would be self-funding over 10 years. But the 
claim that he has alleged (that the system would be self-funding from the outset) is not 
supported by the documents that he has signed so I dont intend to uphold his complaint on 
this basis. 
But it may be helpful to clarify that even if we were to uphold his self-funding complaint, our 
redress does not seek to make any misrepresentation come true. But our usual redress 
ordered, would be to ensure that the system is self-funding over 10 years  so Mr H would 
not pay any more for the system than the benefit he would likely receive over a 10-year 
period. So, its likely, that even if we did uphold his complaint there would be no redress due 
to him. 
 
Other issues 
Mr H has pointed out that he wasnt given a cooling off period or cancellation period. The 
cancellation period does appear to be set out in his credit agreement. But in any event, Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr H tried to or wanted to cancel the agreement. So, I dont intend to
uphold his complaint because of these issues.
Mr H has also raised concerns over whether Ikano correctly assessed his creditworthiness. 
But Ive seen no evidence the loan wasnt affordable, and it looks like Mr H repaid the loan in 
2014 as expected. So again, I dont intend to uphold his complaint because of this issue. Summary 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Hs testimony, I find the signed documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is 
considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a 
consumer. Ive seen no evidence that Ikano paid any commission to the supplier, and 
considering that I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude 
that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So having reviewed this complaint 
again in its entirety, although Ive considered Mr Hs testimony, I still find that the signed 
documents from the time of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information Mr H 
was likely given at the time of sale. Overall, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely 
there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also considered whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair relationship 
under the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic 
source of unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Ive seen no 
evidence that Ikano paid any commission to the supplier, and considering that I havent 
found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship under the Act.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman