DRN-2187930
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Nationwide Building Society blocked, and subsequently closed his account. 
What happened
Mr J opened a new savings account with Nationwide in March 2020. An account he held 
elsewhere was closing, so he deposited around £69,000 from that account into the 
Nationwide one. 
Mr J logged into his online banking on 11 March 2020 to find out that access to his savings 
account had been denied. He called customer service, but they couldnt tell him anything. He 
therefore sent an email to Nationwides Chief Executive (CE) asking for someone to contact 
him to discuss this further. 
On the 13 March 2020 Nationwide sent Mr J an email asking him to provide some 
information around the three deposits into his account. On the same day it also responded to 
Mr Js email to the CE. Nationwide explained that it conducts regular reviews of accounts in 
order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It said it couldnt give an indication 
of how long the block would remain in place or the reason for the decision. Mr J was advised 
to comply with the instructions in the email hed been sent and that once the review had 
been completed, he would be notified. 
Over the next couple of weeks Mr J provided the information Nationwide had requested. 
However, he didnt hear from Nationwide again until 16 April 2020, when it sent him an email 
explaining that, following the review, it had decided to close his account with immediate 
effect. He was told he would need to attend branch to collect the money in the account. 
When Mr J was in branch, he says the advisor was rude. He was told he could only have a 
cheque for the balance and when he explained he didnt have an account that could accept 
cheques, he was told that was his problem to sort out. 
Throughout the five weeks that Nationwide took to review his account, Mr J has explained 
that he told it on several occasions the impact the matter was having on him. Mr J suffers 
from mental and physical health conditions, which made coping and dealing with this 
situation extremely difficult. He needed the money in the account for a house move and to 
maintain his healthy lifestyle to keep his conditions stable. As a result of the block he was 
subject to a legal dispute with his previous landlord as he couldnt afford to pay his last two 
months rent. Mr J made a formal complaint. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint explaining that it understood what a worrying time Mr 
J had been through and it doesnt take blocking access to accounts lightly. However, it had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions when blocking and reviewing the account. It 
explained that it couldnt have given any timescales at the time as reviews can take varying 
amounts of time depending on the information a customer provides. Nationwide said it had 
spoken to the branch where Mr J had collected his money and they said it had offered to call 
the Account Review Team to see if there was any alternative to the cheque payment. 
However, the branch said Mr J decided to accept the cheque. It concluded that no 
compensation was payable. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
concluded that Nationwide had acted within its legal and regulatory obligations and terms 
and conditions, when blocking and closing Mr Js account. He also didnt think there had 
been any undue delays. The investigator also looked into the customer service elements of 
Mr Js complaint, concluding that it had been accurate in the information it had given him in 
both branch and over the phone. 
Mr J remained unhappy. He didnt think any regard had been given to the impact the matter 
had on his mental health, or the fact that being without the money meant he was very nearly 
homeless. He thinks Nationwide couldve made the process a lot quicker based on the 
evidence he sent in and did nothing to speed it up despite knowing his mental health and 
financial challenges at the time. 
Because Mr J disagreed, it has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr J. My conclusions are in no way meant 
to belittle what he went through. I understand it was an extremely difficult time for him and 
being without access to his money had a serious impact on him financially and emotionally. 
However, I dont believe Nationwide made any errors here, so it follows that, despite the 
impact on Mr J, I wont be asking it to compensate him for what happened. Ill now explain 
why. 
Account block and closure 
Nationwide has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. And part of this might require it to restrict a customers access to an 
account where appropriate. If Nationwide didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Taking this into account, Im satisfied Nationwide was within its rights to review Mr Js 
account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. It did so in line with 
its legal and regulatory obligations and in line with the account terms and conditions.
 
Mr J has explained how he was impacted by the block, so Ive looked at whether
Nationwide couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything differently. But from 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied the time and actions taken were necessary and reasonable
for Nationwide to conduct its review and meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Nationwide was also entitled to close Mr Js account and did so in in line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. Nationwide has the discretion to offer accounts to who it 
wishes, just as Mr J can choose who to bank with. 
Nationwide wasnt obliged to tell Mr J the reason for the review or closure and itwouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to.
So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mr J a great deal of upset and inconvenience, I cant say 
Nationwide has treated him unfairly here or should compensate him for this. 
Customer service 
Mr J is also unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide. 
Mr J says Nationwide wouldnt give him any clear answers or updates on what was 
happening with the money in his account or when he could expect the block to be lifted. I do 
appreciate how frustrating and worrying this mustve been for Mr J, especially given his 
mental health concerns and financial situation at that time. However, in order to comply with 
the rules and regulations in place, the reviews can take an indeterminate amount of time. So, 
I think Nationwide staff acted correctly in telling Mr J they couldnt give a specific timeframe, 
rather than guess and give him unrealistic timescales that wouldve raised his expectations. 
Nationwide told Mr J in March, in response to his initial complaint, that he would be notified 
once the review had been completed and Nationwide did do this. I wouldnt have expected 
any updates to be given in the meantime, as there was little it could add whilst the review 
was ongoing. 
Mr J is also unhappy with the service he received when he went into branch to collect the 
money in his account. I cant be sure what was said in the branch. Mr J and the bank have 
provided slightly different accounts. But based on what I have seen I cant be satisfied that 
Nationwide treated Mr J unfairly. I appreciate the tone of these types of conversations can 
be different from usual customer service interactions, due to the nature of what is being 
discussed and the journey the customer has been on up to that point. So, I dont doubt that 
the conversation may have been difficult. But ultimately the money was released to Mr J and 
he was able to deposit this into an account elsewhere. 
Taking everything into account, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman