DRN-4051741
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc, has not met its obligations in regard to two 
transactions he made on his credit card for advisory services regarding disputes about 
payments he made to other firms in around 2017.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr C came into contact with a company who said it provided recovery 
advisory services (which I will call Firm P). Mr C says Firm P told him it could get him 
money back and compensation for an agreement hed previously entered into in around 
2017. Mr C says he then paid Firm P a total of over £6261 across payments in October 2020 
and September 2021. Mr C hasnt received any money back or compensation from Firm P in 
relation to the disputes it was to help him with. He says Firm P has not delivered the services 
he paid for in getting his money back. So he says he wants to get his money back from Firm 
P. But it wont refund him and says its still working on his claim. So he took his dispute to 
Santander.
In July 2021 Santander wrote to Mr C saying that it hadnt seen sufficient evidence to show 
Firm P had breached its contract with Mr C or misrepresented it. Santander explained it had 
been in contact with Firm P and that it was still providing advice and working on his 2017 
claims. So it didnt uphold his complaint.
So Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator considered the matter and felt 
that Santander hadnt treated Mr C unfairly. But Mr C didnt agree so this case comes to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm P or other firms like it. This is 
because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely 
about what Santander did or didnt do in relation to its obligations. And it should be 
remembered that Santander is only involved in this issue as a result of its managing Mr Cs 
credit card account which he used to make these transactions to Firm P and the obligations 
that flow from that. In essence the tests I must consider are whether the transaction itself 
was made correctly, and whether Santanders position in regard to Chargeback and Mr Cs 
Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was fair.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr C his complaint 
about Santander fails. I shall explain why.
Mr C doesnt contest that he made the transactions originally, or that they were applied 
incorrectly to his account. Ive considered the transactions themselves and Im satisfied 
Santander didnt do anything wrong in processing them or allocating those amounts to his 
account.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about transactions, as Mr C does 
here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt Santander here). So Santander isnt the final 
arbiter in whether the chargeback is successful-the card scheme is. And Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this Service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback if within the time 
limits and that there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think Santander couldve challenged the payments on the basis Mr C didnt properly 
authorise the transactions, given what Ive already set out.
The Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be raised to 
challenge disputed transactions. And Santander only has to raise a chargeback dispute 
when it thinks such a chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success. Mr C has supplied 
this service with the agreement document he entered into with Firm P so I can see when the 
agreement was entered and what the agreement was.
Ive considered the first transaction Mr C made to Firm P in 2020 and when he took his 
dispute to Santander in 2022. Santander has noted that this timespan is outside of the 
chargeback time limits including the long-stop time limit. Ive considered this and the time 
limits and what happened here, and Im satisfied Santander hasnt treated Mr C unfairly by 
not raising a Chargeback with regard to the first payment in 2020 due to it being outside of 
these time limits.
The chargeback rules are a straightforward mechanism based on reason codes which 
enables banks to challenge transactions with merchants on behalf of account holders. The 
merchant then has an opportunity to accept the requested refund or to dispute the 
chargeback. This can go back and forth until the final stage where the scheme itself decides 
on the matters at hand. Here it is clear that Firm P has explained to Mr C that its providing 
an advisory service and that advice has been given. It has also explained that it may take 
some time for it to get the results Mr C wants. It has also liaised with Mr C about this 
subsequent to when the transactions took place. So I think it unlikely it would accept 
refunding Mr C, rather, I think it likely that it would have defended any chargeback. Having 
considered the scheme rules and the circumstances here I think it unlikely that had 
Santander raised a chargeback in time on the second transaction that it would have been 
successful. So I dont think Mr C has lost out due to a chargeback not being raised by 
Santander here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr C used his credit card with Santander for these transactions. This means Santander has 
certain responsibilities to Mr C which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail 
about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr C to hold 
Santander liable for breaches of contract by Firm P, or misrepresentations made by it in 
relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach 
of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to provide 
under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is reasonably relied 
upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. 
It is clear that Mr C is very much of the opinion that Firm P made misrepresentations to him 
which led to him paying for its services. But before deciding on whether there is breach or 
misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. These are to do with the financial limit 
requirements and the relevant relationship between parties (Debtor, Creditor, Supplier). 
However for the reasons Im about to explain I dont think I need to decide on these issues 
as I dont think they make a difference as to whether Mr C gets any money back from 
Santander.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
Firstly I note that Mr C states that the entire enterprise is an elaborate scam. As this is a s75 
claim the onus is on Mr C to show this on balance of probabilities to Santander, just as he 
would have to in a court claim against Firm P. After all, this is a like claim to Santander as it 
would be against Firm P. From what Ive seen the only thing Mr C has provided on this point 
is some on-line comment about this firm and his own observations. As such I dont think 
Santander have treated him unfairly by not considering that this is enough to be persuasive. 
I also note Santander have been in contact with Firm P directly as part of their investigations. 
And as a result of that communication Firm P reached out to Mr C and updated him. So it 
seems clear Santander did look into this issue and satisfied itself there was some form of 
work going on in relation to Mr Cs case. And it is of note that Mr C isnt due to pay Firm P 
anything more. So I can see why Santander werent persuaded it was a scam by the fact 
that it made contact and had constructive dialogue with Firm P. I can appreciate that 
Santander would have expected a scam not to have liaised with it at all in these 
circumstances.
Ive considered the contract Mr C has supplied. I note that it makes clear that it is solely for 
advisory services and that any court action would have to be agreed in a separate contract 
to be agreed at a later point. I can see Mr C has been provided with a feasibility report. Mr C 
has provided comments about a firm from abroad taking a company to court in the UK. But 
as the contract makes clear any such legal action isnt covered in the contract Mr C signed. 
The contract explains that any such action would be under a separate agreement agreed at 
that time. And, generally speaking, there is nothing stopping a foreign firm engaging UK 
based solicitors to represent them in UK courts on matters within the jurisdiction of such UK 
courts. So I dont think Mr Cs arguments here are persuasive.
I also note that the contract has no timeliness clauses and makes clear that all is to be 
provided is investigation and advisory services in relation to Mr Cs 2017 dispute. It doesnt 
provide any great detail as to what is to be provided or when other than such advice. And 
bearing in mind the onus is on Mr C to show that Santander treated him unfairly by not 
concluding there was a breach or misrepresentation and considering the terms of the 
contract it Im not persuaded hes done that as he hasnt specifically pointed to a term which 
he says has been broken. 
It is the case that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that 
contracts are fulfilled within a reasonable time. There is no definition of what a reasonable 
time is in the act other than it is a question of fact. Bearing in mind the nature of the advisory 
service being provided and the Pandemic issues suffered by Firm P (as described in its letter 
to Mr C) and the other circumstances here, Im not persuaded that when Santander 
considered this matter that it was wrong to conclude that Firm P had not contravened this 
implied term.
Mr C says he was told a variety of things would also be in the service provided. But it is also 
clear those services he says he would receive werent described in the contract he signed. 
And having considered the contract itself, Im not persuaded it is a highly complex, tightly 
worded substantial document only understandable after significant legal analysis. On the 
contrary it is, to my mind, relatively short, sets out the service to be provided briefly and the 
consideration and responsibilities of the parties is set out in straightforward language. I also note Mr C provides little in the way of detailed description of what was said, how, when and 
by whom when he was told what he says he was told that materially misrepresented the 
matter to him. So Im not persuaded that Santander has treated Mr C unfairly by considering 
that on balance a material misrepresentation has not been made which meant that 
Santander should redress the matter.
In response to the assessment of the Investigator in this case, Mr C says hes disappointed 
that our Investigator hadnt seen through this scam. But that isnt the Investigators role 
here. It is the Investigators role to consider whether Santander had considered the claim 
fairly. And like the Investigator Ive concluded that Santander has considered the matter 
fairly. It has considered the contract and indeed contacted Firm P. For it to be liable a breach 
of contract has to be made out, and Santander (nor I) are persuaded that this is the case at 
this point. I also think it is of note that in these responses Mr C has not persuasively argued 
that Santander has done anything wrong and passes little comment on Santanders actions 
generally. And this complaint is about Santander.
Mr C has noted that this wasnt a timeshare scheme abroad but rather a discount savings 
scheme and a lodge investment in the UK. I dont think this is in dispute. And I can see the 
documentation agreed between the parties here is pointed at individuals in Mr Cs original 
dispute in the UK who were involved in these matters. I see no persuasive reason why 
Santander should redress a payment Mr C made to parties for a service when those parties 
may not be ideally placed to provide said service or provide the best value for money. I can 
see why Mr C might feel that a UK firm may be better placed to deal with such matters. But 
Santander isnt responsible for the decision to engage Firm P.
I also note that Mr C points to issues with the documentation and correspondence that Firm 
P has provided him since entering the agreement. I can see what he means as some of it 
doesnt appear wholly relevant to the matters at hand. However it does also detail his 
original dispute and the parties hes in dispute with from events some years before. So it 
may be that Mr C hasnt received the best customer service from Firm P. But Santanders 
liability here is strictly limited to breach of contract and misrepresentation, and having 
considered everything here I dont think Santander has treated Mr C unfairly by concluding 
that these hadnt been demonstrated here.
Lastly I should add that in the agreement signed there was no guarantee of success in 
recovering the disputed funds on behalf of Mr C. So that fact that Mr C hasnt received any 
such funds doesnt demonstrate any breach here.
In summary and having considered all the relevant information and arguments made here it 
is my conclusion that this complaint does not succeed.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr C wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm P hasnt treated him fairly. And I also appreciate 
that he feels he wasnt treated fairly by the parties in his original dispute which he engaged 
Firm P to help him with. But all of this isnt Santanders fault. Here Santander is only 
responsible for the transaction itself, its consideration of chargeback and its consideration of 
the s75 claim Mr C made to it. And within that scope and considering the obligations 
Santander has, Im satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him what he paid 
Firm P.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. It has nothing further to do in 
relation to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman