DRN-3576069
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund her for 
transactions she says she didnt authorise. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mrs B realised that the balance of her account was far below what she 
was expecting. She contacted NatWest to say that she had not made three payments 
totalling around £6,000. Mrs B had also made other claims for fraud on her account on eight 
occasions in the previous year, the most recent being in November 2021. 
NatWest said they wouldnt be refunding Mrs B as it wasnt possible for the transactions to 
have been authorised by anyone else. They didnt believe the transactions were made by 
anyone other than Mrs B or someone she provided access to. NatWest also noted that 
Mrs B had made many claims for lost or stolen cards and for fraudulent transactions in the 
previous year, and so felt she was not properly looking after her card and card details. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought it 
was likely that Mrs B either made the disputed transactions, or allowed them to be made, as 
no plausible explanation had been provided as to how somebody would have been able to 
get Mrs Bs card details without her permission. Mrs B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Generally speaking, NatWest is responsible for any transactions that Mrs B didnt authorise. 
But the relevant rules explain that in some circumstances, Mrs B can still be held liable  for 
instance, if Mrs B failed to keep her details secure or if she allowed a third party to use her 
card. 
NatWests records show that Mrs Bs genuine card details were used to carry out the 
transactions. Mrs B has said she only takes her card out if she knows she is going to use it, 
does not live with anyone, and that nobody has access to her card except for her. She does 
though say that she may have given her card details when making purchases over the 
phone, and Mrs B thinks its possible that when making these purchases her card details 
may have been kept and passed on to other parties. But the payments in dispute here were 
point of sale payments, and so required the PIN to be authorised. And I can see no reason 
why a payment made over the phone would require Mrs B to tell her PIN to a third party.
If I were to accept that Mrs B didnt make the transactions herself, it leaves the only plausible 
explanations that either, she authorised someone else to use her card by sharing her PIN or 
card details thus enabling that person to make the transactions, or she didnt take 
reasonable care to keep her card and PIN safe and allowed an opportunist fraudster to use 
her card to make the transactions. If Mrs B gave her card details to someone else, she has 
effectively authorised the transactions from her account and is responsible for them  even if 
she didnt know or expect that this party would make these transactions. And if Mrs B failed 
to keep her card details secure, I think this would be grossly negligent and she would still be 
responsible for the transactions. This is because any reasonable person would consider it 
careless as there was an obvious and foreseeable risk that a third party, known or unknown, 
could make transactions using the card and PIN. 
And given the number of previous incidents where Mrs B has told NatWest her card has 
been used by an unknown third party  and so has then claimed subsequent transactions as 
being fraudulent  I think its clear that there is some issue with Mrs Bs ability to keep her 
card details safe. 
With all of this in mind I consider NatWest was reasonable to decline Mrs Bs fraud claims. It 
follows that Im satisfied that NatWest can fairly hold Mrs B liable for these transactions. So, I 
wont be asking it to reimburse her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman