DRN-2317445
The complaint
Mr H complains that Skipton Building Society debited a cheque hed lodged to his account 
without informing him. He also complains that Skipton Building Society unfairly delayed 
complying with an instruction he gave it to close his account.
What happened
Mr H had a savings account with Skipton. 
He says he visited a branch office on 22 May 2020. After his passbook was updated he 
noticed that the proceeds of a cheque hed lodged to his account on 17 January 2020 had 
been removed from his account. When he asked Skipton to explain this to him, he says he 
wasnt given a coherent answer. He was eventually informed that the cheque had been 
returned marked duplicate.
Mr H says Skipton didnt inform him that the cheque had been returned and if he hadnt 
noticed it, he wouldnt have been informed about it. He also says the cheque is not a 
duplicate. He says he approached the drawer of the cheque and this was confirmed to him. 
The drawer of the cheque also provided him with a replacement cheque. 
Mr H says when he raised this matter with Skipton, its staff were rude and aggressive 
towards him. He says he considers Skiptons actions to have been fraudulent. 
He complained to Skipton about this matter. He says he received a letter from the branch on 
1 June 2020 which said it had credited £25 to his account. He says this was never discussed 
with him. And he says this letter was backdated to 22 May 2020 in an effort to try to 
manipulate events and circumvent the formal complaints procedure.
As a result of whatd happened Mr H visited a branch office on 27 May 2020. He instructed 
Skipton to close his account. He says this was refused. Skipton told him it couldnt close his 
account because a cheque hed lodged on 22 May 2020 hadnt cleared. It told him this took 
six days. He says the staff were rude and unprofessional when he pointed out to them that 
cheques no longer took six days to clear. He says Skipton ordered him to leave the branch 
rather than acknowledge the valid points he was making.
Mr H says Skipton didnt close his account until 10 June 2020. 
Mr H complained to Skipton about both of these matters. Skipton investigated his 
complaints. 
Skipton said it was unsure why his cheque had been returned with the answer duplicate. It 
said because this cheque was for a low value it was unlikely the bank Skipton used to clear 
its cheques could investigate the matter now. It said it had credited his account with £25 
which covered the value of the cheque and the interest he wouldve earned had it not been 
debited from his account.
It apologised that it hadnt written to him about this at the time and that hed been given 
conflicting and incorrect information when he visited the branch. It acknowledged its adviser 
had made a comment to Mr H which it said was unacceptable and it offered to pay him £100 
because it had failed to write to him and because of the unacceptable comment.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this response. He says it doesnt deal with what hes said about 
fraud. He also says the cheque was not a duplicate and Skipton should investigate this 
further.
Skipton also investigated his complaint about his request to close his account. It said it 
hadnt broken any legislation by saying that cheques took six days to clear. It referred to its 
terms and conditions and to the cleared date which appeared beside the cheque entry in the 
passbook. Skipton said it had to carry out additional checks even though it used a bank to 
clear its cheques.  
Skipton said itd offered to give Mr H the cleared balance when he asked it to close his 
account. But hed declined that offer. It acknowledged it hadnt closed the account until after 
hed sent it a letter. The account shouldve been closed on 2 June 2020 when the cheque 
cleared. It apologised for this delay.
Skipton denied it had thrust a booklet at Mr H when he was in the branch. It said it was sorry 
for any distress caused when hed been asked to leave the branch. In light of this and the 
delay in closing his account, it offered him £25 by way of compensation.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with these responses. So, he complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaints. 
In respect of the complaint about the returned cheque our investigator said Skipton had 
acknowledged it shouldve informed Mr H before removing the cheque proceeds from his 
account. But he thought that Skipton had done enough to try to put things right. It had 
credited his account with £25 which covered the value of the cheque and the interest he 
wouldve earned if the cheque hadnt been removed. And, it had offered to pay Mr H £100 
for the poor service hed received. He thought that was in line with what wed have 
recommended.
He also considered Mr Hs complaint about the closure of his account. He said that our 
service provided an informal dispute resolution service. We were not a regulator. 
He said Skipton still applied a 2-4-6 clearance process as set out in its terms and 
conditions. He thought this wasnt unreasonable even though Skiptons clearing bank did 
use the new Image Clearing System (ICS) to clear cheques. He said Mr H could refer this to 
the regulator if he still disagreed. 
Our investigator thought Skipton hadnt made any error when it said the cheque wasnt 
cleared. He thought its offer to pay Mr H £25 was fair and reasonable compensation for the 
delay in closing his account.
Mr H didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised two separate, albeit related complaints. So, Ill deal with each separately.The returned cheque
Skipton has acknowledged that it didnt write to Mr H to inform him the cheque hed lodged 
to his account in January 2020 had been returned unpaid. It apologised for this and credited 
his account with £25. It says this covered the value of the cheque (£23.69) and any interest 
he wouldve been paid on this amount since the date hed lodged it.
Skipton also accepted that Mr H was given incorrect and conflicting information when he 
queried this with the branch. It said its staff member had made a comment to Mr H which 
was unacceptable and made a further offer of £100 by way of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hed experienced as a result.
Mr H isnt satisfied with what Skipton has proposed. He says this doesnt deal with his 
concerns about the explanation given to him about the cheque being a duplicate. And, he 
says, hes concerned there may have been fraud which Skipton ought to have fully 
investigated.
I asked Skipton to make further enquiries with its clearing bank about why the answer on the 
cheque had been duplicate. Skipton has now done that. Its provided our service with a 
copy of the response from its clearing bank. This states that the cheque was returned unpaid 
because of an error made by the clearing bank. When processing a different cheque it had 
incorrectly entered the number which appeared on Mr Hs cheque. The reason given for this 
error was because the two cheque numbers were the same apart from one digit. That digit 
had been incorrectly entered by the clearing bank. So, when Mr Hs cheque was presented 
for payment it appeared to be a duplicate. 
Having considered the response from the clearing bank, Im satisfied that Skipton was told, 
in error, that Mr Hs cheque was a duplicate. It also explains why Mr H was told by the 
drawer of the cheque that it hadnt been presented for payment.
Whilst I can understand why Mr H wasnt satisfied with the information hed been provided 
with, Im not persuaded that, apart from not informing Mr H the cheque had been returned, 
Skipton has done anything wrong here. 
As soon as the matter was brought to its attention it did take steps to put Mr H in the position 
he wouldve been in had the cheque not been returned. Mr H has also been able, separately, 
to get value for the cheque. So, I dont think hes lost out as a result of what happened.
Although Mr H has expressed concerns about fraud, this is not a matter I can comment on 
directly (as it would be a matter for the police). But Im satisfied Skipton looked into his 
concerns about how hed been spoken to by its staff. He was given conflicting information 
and Skipton acknowledges he received poor service. 
Having considered everything here, I think the offer to pay him an additional £100 by way of 
compensation for what happened is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont 
require it to do anything more.
The closure of his account
Mr H asked Skipton to close his account on 27 May 2020. Skipton said it couldnt do this 
because hed lodged a cheque to his account on 22 May 2020. It said its terms and 
conditions stated that this cheque wouldnt be cleared until six working days after the date 
itd been lodged  that date wouldve been 2 June 2020 (taking into account the fact that 25 May was a bank holiday). This date was entered in his passbook alongside the entry for the 
cheque lodgement.
Mr H says that after August 2019, when the cheque Image Clearing System (ICS) was 
introduced, all cheques are cleared within two working days. He says Skipton has been 
holding the cleared funds in its settlement account and is behaving unlawfully when it 
withholds these cleared funds from its customers. Hes also referred to information which 
appears on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website which states:
 Depositing a cheque
When you deposit a cheque into a current account, you should be able to
withdraw the money by the end of the next working day.
Skipton says there is no law or regulation which requires it to clear cheques within two days. 
And its pointed out that the information on the FCA website refers to current accounts only. 
Skipton says it doesnt offer current accounts. Mr Hs account was a savings (passbook) 
account.
Normally that would be the end of the matter  the FCA guidance doesnt apply to savings 
(passbook) accounts. But given how strongly Mr H feels about this issue, I havent just left 
the matter there. Ive also looked at the FCAs Handbook which sets out the regulatory 
requirements which apply to cheques. In the section of the Handbook (available online) 
entitled Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBs) there is a requirement to 
provide the consumer with appropriate information before he is bound by the terms of the 
contract. As far as cheques are concerned the information to be provided is as follows:
the timescales for each stage of the cheque clearing process.
Im satisfied Skipton did provide this information to Mr H in its terms and conditions. I dont 
find any other mandatory requirements regarding cheque clearance times in BCOBs. 
Ive also thought about whether Skipton should have done more to try to speed up the 
cheque clearing process. 
Although I agree that the information Mr H has referred to on the FCA website about cheque 
clearance times doesnt apply to savings account, I wouldve expected Skipton to work with 
its clearing bank to try to pass on any benefits arising from the faster cheque clearance 
times created by the ICS. Skipton says it has been doing this. But, it says, at the time Mr Hs 
cheque was lodged this work hadnt been concluded. It says this was reflected in its terms 
and conditions which stated:
We have started to introduce technology which will enable cheques
to clear through a new Image Clearing System. When we have fully introduced this 
technology we will advise you of our revised clearance times
Until this work was concluded Skipton says it still applied the six day clearance rule. 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded Skipton did anything wrong. It was working with 
its clearing bank to improve the clearance times. And, it made its customers aware its 
clearance times wouldnt change until after this work was completed.
Mr H says that despite what Skipton says, the cheque was already cleared when he asked it 
to close his account and the funds were sitting in Skiptons settlement account. So, he says 
it shouldnt have withheld these funds. Mr H is correct when he says that Skiptons clearing bank used ICS to clear the cheque, but 
Skipton still had to apply its own processes both before and after the cheque was sent to the 
clearing bank. So, although, as a result of ICS, settlement may have occurred more quickly, 
Skipton hadnt introduced or tested its new processes and that was why, in line with its terms 
and conditions, it still applied the six day clearance period. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require Skipton to have introduced revised clearance times until after the new 
process had been fully tested and implemented.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied that, in line with the requirements in 
BCOBs, Skipton provided information on its cheque clearance times in its terms and 
conditions. It also included information in Mr Hs passbook about when any cheque lodged to 
his account would clear. So, he had that information on 22 May 2020 when he lodged the 
cheque. Mr H hadnt objected at that time.
Skipton also provided correct information to Mr H about its cheque clearance times when he 
asked it to close his account. On that date, Skipton offered to give Mr H the balance in his 
account, less the amount of the uncleared cheque. I think that was fair and reasonable since 
Skipton was offering to give him all of the cleared funds in the account. Mr H refused to 
accept that. 
Skipton has accepted it shouldve closed the account as soon as the cheque did clear. It 
didnt do that until after Mr H complained. Its offered to pay Mr H £25 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this delay. I 
think thats fair and reasonable.  I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Skipton Building Society.
Skipton Building Society has already made an offer to pay Mr H an additional £125 (in total) 
to settle both parts of his complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Should Mr H wish to accept this total offer of £125, Skipton Building Society may deduct any 
amounts it has already paid in respect of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman