DRN-3709396
The complaint
Miss T complains about goods she ordered from Studio Retail Limited.
What happened
In late 2021, Miss T bought a laptop from Studio using her running account credit facility 
which was also provided by Studio. She says Studio told her the laptop would be delivered 
within 10 days. She says she needed the laptop to arrive on time to use it for a course she 
was studying on. However, the laptop was delivered 17 days after it was ordered. Miss T 
says she originally placed the order a week earlier (meaning it was much longer than 17 
days) but due to system problems Studio didnt put the order through the first time.
Miss T complained to Studio. She said that she had to drop out of the course because she 
was unable to complete the required exams as she didnt have access to a laptop on time. 
She wanted Studio to give her a refund and pay her compensation.
Studio apologised for the delays and offered to refund the delivery charge. However, it 
accidently refunded the whole cost of the laptop from her credit account. Studio then 
redebated the cost to her credit account around a month later. It also applied a credit of £40 
to her account as compensation for distress and inconvenience its mistakes had caused.
Miss T wasnt happy with this as a resolution. She said shed had to continually chase Studio 
to arrange delivery of the laptop, she was lied to, it didnt arrive on time and this caused her 
to have to quit her course. She felt more compensation was warranted.
I sent Miss T and Studio my provisional decision on 6 September 2020. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said that:
Studio acted in two different capacities in its dealings with Miss T. One was as a 
retailer of goods and services, the other as a regulated provider of credit. 
The majority of Miss Ts complaint related to Studios actions as a retailer, not as a 
provider of credit. I didnt have any jurisdiction to consider Studios retail activities 
which included the sale and delivery of the goods and any administration relating to 
that. 
I could consider how Studio had administered her running account credit facility that 
she used to finance the purchase of the laptop and any complaint she had that 
related specifically to the provision of that credit facility.
Concerning her complaint about the credit facility, I didnt think Studio had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards her. This was because she had purchased goods 
which she still had in her possession and the terms of the credit agreement entitled 
Studio to seek recovery of the payment for those goods as well as apply interest and, 
if payment wasnt made on time, charges. 
I said that for a short period of time Studio had accidently refunded the full purchase 
price, but I didnt think it acted unfairly in re-applying that charge. This was because 
Miss T still had the laptop in her possession. I said that during the time the purchase 
price had been credited, Miss T had benefitted from not being charged interest on 
that purchase. I therefore didnt think shed lost out as a result of any error by Studio 
in relation to its regulated credit activities. 
Studio didnt respond to my provisional decision and Miss T didnt agree. In summary, she 
said Studio had charged her interest for the laptop. She said she hadnt missed any 
payments and had repeatedly tried to return the laptop, but Studio had refused to accept the 
return. She felt charging her interest when shed tried to return the laptop was unfair.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I only have jurisdiction to consider Miss Ts complaint 
points which relate to Studios actions in providing or administering her regulated credit 
agreement. I cant consider any complaint which relates to Studios retail activities. Miss T 
hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to my jurisdiction to consider those 
complaints, so I dont think its necessary to comment on that further, except to say Im still 
satisfied these arent issues I can consider. 
Miss T is clearly unhappy about Studios returns policy and its customer service in relation to 
accepting the return of the laptop. These issues relate to Studios retail activities and isnt 
therefore something I can comment on. This doesnt prevent her pursuing those particular 
complaint points through other avenues. 
The complaint points I do have jurisdiction to consider relate to the provision and 
administration of the running account credit agreement. Miss T says that Studio have 
charged her interest for the laptop. I agree, but I consider it is fair for Studio to do this. This is 
because the credit agreement, which she agreed to, sets out that interest will be charged on 
purchases. Although Miss T has a dispute with Studio about the return of those goods, no 
return has been accepted by Studio so far. As the return hasnt been accepted and the 
purchase price wasnt fully repaid, I dont think Studio has acted unfairly in continuing to 
charge interest on that purchase. 
It isnt my role to interfere in that retail dispute, as the credit agreement has no specific terms 
or statutory obligations in relation to disputes about delivery of goods financed by that credit. 
Unless that retail dispute is resolved in Miss Ts favour, I see no reasonable basis to say that 
Studio (as a credit provider) has acted unfairly in charging Miss T for the purchase of the 
laptop under the terms of the credit agreement. 
Miss T says she hasnt missed any payments on her credit agreement. However, Studio 
have provided a copy of her statement dated November 2021 which shows that she missed 
her payment. Her October 2021 statement also appears to suggest (although I accept it isnt 
entirely clear) that she made a payment late. I therefore consider it fair for Studio to be 
recording adverse information on her credit file in relation to any late/missed payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Tero HiltunenOmbudsman