DRN-3026812
The complaint
Mr C complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) hasnt offered a fair value for his car 
following an accident which led to his car being written off. 
What happened
Mr C insured his car with esure. In June 2021, Mr C was unfortunately involved in a car 
accident. esure subsequently deemed his car to be a total loss and ultimately offered 
£11,134 to settle the claim. 
Mr C wasnt happy so he complained. He said his car had factory fitted optional extras, a full 
service history and had recently had a service and an MOT. Mr C said he couldnt replace 
his car with a like-for-like replacement based on esures offer and the price of second-hand 
cars had increased due to the pandemic. esure didnt uphold the complaint. It responded to 
say it reached this figure by taking an average of the prices from motor trade guides.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. An investigator at this service looked into matters 
and thought the offer made by esure was fair so he didnt uphold this complaint. He 
explained that, in coming to this view, hed considered the four market valuation tools used 
by esure. He was more persuaded by these than online adverts as they have a profit built in 
to the price. He also explained that the optional extras didnt make a difference to the 
valuations that the guides produced. 
Mr C didnt agree and the matter was then passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful to explain that my role isnt to give an exact value of Mr Cs car. Instead, 
my role is to decide whether esure has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think it has. Ill explain why below.
Where a car has been damaged, the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say:
If we settle your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property.

We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the
total excess payable.
The policy defines the market value as follows.
market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected 
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a 
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based 
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may 
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
This means esure will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, here, 
theyve determined to be £11,134. esure referred to the trade guides to obtain a value for the 
car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. We would use a similar approach 
and the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing second-
hand vehicles. And we find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value, mostly 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
As the investigator has explained, if a guide is significantly out of line, wed consider the two 
guide values closest together to give a good indication of the likely market value. But this 
wasnt an issue here as all the guides were broadly in line with each other.
I can see the investigator confirmed the motor trade guides used by esure were for cars of 
the same make, model, age, condition, extras and mileage as Mr Cs at the date of its loss. 
These checks found esures offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the 
guides. And the guides showed no increase in value when selecting the optional extras that 
Mr Cs car had. So, I dont consider esure acted unfairly in reaching the value it has.
Mr C says a similar car cant be bought for the sum esure has offered him. However, Mr C is 
basing this on cars that are currently for sale. But an asking price isnt always the selling 
price - sometimes the difference can be several hundreds, or even thousands, of pounds. It 
is important to note that the value of Mr Cs car may well have increased in the time since 
the loss whilst the claim was being dealt with  meaning that like for like replacements being 
advertised now may be more expensive. However, as explained above, esure is only 
required to pay their policyholder the amount the car could reasonably have been sold for 
directly before the loss. And this is what I consider it has offered to Mr C. It follows Im not 
persuaded that the market value of the car paid by esure is wrong. And its the market value 
thats due under the terms of the policy.
Mr C feels the value should be higher as the car recently had a recent MOT carried out. The 
terms of Mr Cs policy require the policyholder to Make sure your car is in a roadworthy 
condition  this includes having a valid MOT if required. Whilst I also note Mr C says he 
maintained his car with a full service history, we dont think maintenance increases the value 
of a car but keeps it in retail condition, which is reflected in the guides. So, these points dont 
affect the settlement offer made by esure.
In summary, Im satisfied esures offer for the market value of Mr Cs car at the time directly 
before the loss was fair according to the terms and conditions of the policy and our approach 
to complaints like this. It follows that I dont require esure to increase this. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C but this brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with esure 
 can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman