DRN-3099894
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) denied him access to his company account 
between 6 August 2020 and 11 November 2020 and havent told him why.
What happened
Mr P is a signatory for a company account along with another director of the company. He 
was denied access to the account for around three months and, after having made several 
representations to Lloyds, his access was restored and they paid him £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. 
However, Mr P remains unhappy as he wants to know the reason why he was denied 
access to the account, which Lloyds have refused to give him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Lloyds had to take any further 
action as she was satisfied the £500 compensation they had offered was fair and didnt think 
that Lloyds had to tell him why it blocked his account access. Mr P disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that Mr P wants to know the reasons why Lloyds blocked access to his 
account. But in this instance, theyve decided not to disclose this, and Lloyds are 
entitled to submit evidence to this service in confidence without it having to be 
disclosed. I have reviewed the evidence the bank has submitted, and I can see that 
they were acting on information theyd received from Mr Ps fellow director when they 
took action to remove his access. If Mr P wants to know the details of what was 
reported, he will need to discuss this with the director himself. If Mr P is also 
concerned about what action the other director has taken on the account during the 
time he was excluded, this is also something that he will have to pursue directly with 
the director. 
Lloyds have conceded that it shouldnt have removed Mr Ps access from the 
account when the account mandate was for two signatories, and theyve 
acknowledged that they didnt follow the proper process here. Due to the poor 
service they provided, Lloyds offered £500 compensation. I appreciate that Mr P may 
not consider this to be commensurate to the experience he has had. And I 
understand it would have been frustrating for him to be denied access to his business 
account for three months, as well as having to chase this matter up. But on balance, 
Im not persuaded it had any more severe an impact than causing moderate 
inconvenience or upset. So, I consider that £500 is a proportionate reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds actions, and I will not be directing 
them to pay any further compensation in these circumstances. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but it follows that I wont be directing 
Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman