DRN-3436334
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC mishandled his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr C booked a 12-night stay in a holiday apartment for end of July. The 
apartment was to be used by two adults and two teenage children. Mr C says he selected 
this apartment because it provided adequate space and sufficient bedrooms so that his 
children did not have to share. The apartment had 2 bedrooms though three separate beds 
were available.
The apartment was in a complex with a swimming pool and the cost for this break was 
1,9905.94 Euros or £1,634.76. Mr C paid for the accommodation using the credit card he 
held with Tesco.
In June 2020, Mr C received an email from the company providing his holiday 
accommodation informing him that due to Covid the pool may not be available for use. They 
offered Mr C different accommodation at a different complex and provided photos of this new 
location. The company said that this new apartment would be a better proposal and that it 
was a better situation at the same price.
Mr C responded by email confirming that he would alter his booking but also said I assume 
this is the same number of bedrooms/beds. The company didnt answer this point but did 
confirm the change.
Mr C emailed the company again as the confirmation stated there was only one room. Mr C 
said All being well, I will be travelling with my daughter (age 17) and my son (age 14). I 
notice that your last email states total guests 2, total rooms 1 but I assume thats just an 
administrative error. My original booking confirmation states 2 adults, 2 children.
The company emailed back and said Hello, Yes its okay for 2 adults, 2 children.
Mr C and his family arrived at the accommodation as planned in July 2020, and they were 
shocked to find the apartment was a one bedroom and had only two beds. Mr C says the 
complex was also unfinished. Mr C complained to the companys agent that his two teenage 
children should not be expected to share a bed. The agent said there werent any other 
apartments available. Mr C took photos of the apartment and also visited the complex he 
had originally booked where he found the swimming pool was open. He sent these to the 
company in support of his complaint.
Mr C complained that there was no comparison between the two apartments and he set out  
the following matters: that the online cost of the second apartment was significantly lower 
than the original apartment; that there was no TV in the living area, just a bracket on the wall 
where it should be; that they only had use of a travel kettle which had boiled one cup at a 
time and that there was no air conditioning unlike the first apartment.
The company offered Mr C a 200 Euro refund around two days later which he declined as he 
said it wasnt sufficient in light of the standard of accommodation now provided. The 
company increased their offer to 400 euros. Mr C again declined and pointed out that this 
amount didnt even reflect the price difference between the apartment he had originally 
booked and the subsequent one. The company declined to improve this offer.
Mr C made a claim to Tesco in respect of the holiday accommodation. Tesco at first 
reviewed this as a chargeback claim which was declined as Mr C had made use of the 
apartment. Mr C complained to Tesco about its handling of his claim and it accepted it 
should have considered his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Tesco 
offered Mr C £75 as compensation for its handling of his claim.
However, Tesco then declined Mr Cs claim under section 75 as it said it hadnt been stated 
how many bedrooms the first apartment had when booked by Mr C, and that it would be a 
subjective opinion whether the quality of one apartment was better or the same as another. It 
said the offer of 400 Euros by the company had been fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr C was unhappy at Tescos decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that, when looking online at the first apartment, this was advertised a 3-
bedroom apartment that sleeps up to six people. And, that looking at the emails between Mr 
C and the company providing the accommodation, it was clear the number of bedrooms was 
an important factor for Mr C. He said he thought it was more likely than not that Mr C had 
booked a 3-bedroom property. This meant, said our investigator, that the provision of a 1-
bed apartment, as a substitute, was a breach of contract.
Our investigator said that the company had also sought to persuade Mr C that the second 
apartment was better than the first. He said looking at the photos provided by Mr C that the 
kitchen and living room were both considerably smaller than in the first one. While our 
investigator acknowledged there was some subjectivity about whether one apartment was 
better than another, he said he thought the second apartment had been misrepresented. It 
had less bedrooms and was clearly smaller.
To put things right, our investigator said that Tesco should refund Mr C the difference 
between the two stays, which he calculated as 767.94 Euros. He said when converting this,
Tesco should use the same rate as Mr C received when making the original
payment. As Mr C had cleared his credit card the following month then Tesco should add 8% 
simple interest from the date this payment was cleared to the date of settlement.
Our investigator said that Tesco should also provide Mr C with £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the misrepresentation of the second apartment. Plus, 
it should pay him the £75 compensation offered for the way it handled his claim.
Mr C agreed with our investigators view and, although Tesco agreed it should reimburse Mr 
C for the breach of contract and for the way it handled his complaint, it disagreed that £300 
compensation was fair and proportionate for the misrepresentation.
Tesco said that the purpose of a section 75 claim was to put Mr C back in the position he 
would have been in prior to the breach of contract. It said £300 compensation for not 
upholding Mr Cs claim was excessive and disproportionate. Tesco said it wasnt liable for 
the companys service issues.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement then the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in its response to 
Mr Cs claim under section 75. 
Mr C says that he believes he has been the victim of a scam by the company as they 
knowingly persuaded him to change to a smaller and substandard apartment following his 
original booking. He says there was both a misrepresentation and a breach of contract.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods or services 
purchased via a credit cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect 
of the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit, and 
they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider, which here 
is Tesco.
Tesco isnt now disputing that there has been a breach of contract and it agrees that 
Mr C should be reimbursed the difference in cost between the first and second 
apartment. Ive seen that there isnt any direct evidence as to this amount but, using 
the example cost for the second apartment that Mr C was able to obtain, he was able 
to calculate this as 767.95 Euros. And I think this calculation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
However, Tesco disagrees that Mr C should receive £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the apartment being misrepresented. It says this 
is an issue about the service provided by the company which it wouldnt be liable for. It 
agrees it would be liable for any consequential losses incurred by Mr C dealing with the 
misrepresentation but feels this payment may be a step too far and is also 
disproportionate. Tesco says an additional £50 compensation for its declining his claim 
under section 75 would be fair.
As set out above, under section 75 Tesco is as liable as the company for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. I think that in light of the evidence Ive seen that the 
swapping of the first holiday apartment for the second one, in these circumstances, 
amounted to both a breach of contract and a misrepresentation. 
Ive seen in the email correspondence between Mr C and the company providing the 
holiday accommodation that he was told the second apartment would be superior to 
the first and suitable for his family. I accept that judging the quality of accommodation 
does have a subjective element. However, I think its reasonable to say the second 
apartment wasnt what Mr C had been led to believe nor was it comparable in size or 
facilities to the one originally booked. In particular the second apartment didnt have the 
required number of beds and had fewer facilities such as no air conditioning. Mr C had 
certain requirements due to the make-up of his party and its reasonable to say that by 
not to having those planned facilities available would have caused him distress and 
inconvenience. I think its reasonable to say that Mr C experienced a loss of enjoyment 
of his holiday due to the lower standard of the second accommodation.
I also think its fair to say Mr C had been looking forward to spending time with his 
family while on holiday. Unfortunately, on arrival he discovered the second apartment 
was not as described and this led him to have to spend time chasing the company over the unsuitability of the apartment which hed been allocated. He also had to spend time 
investigating the first and second apartment complexes so that he could show he 
hadnt received what he had been told he would. I think it was reasonable for Mr C to 
have acted as he did as he needed evidence that his view was purely subjective. I 
think its understandable Mr C was upset that the facilities he thought he would be 
provided with werent then what he had reasonably expected and were actually 
unsuitable for his family.
I think compensation for the loss of enjoyment of the holiday is something Tesco is 
liable for and it is this, together with the service provided by Tesco when dealing with 
Mr Cs claim that an award of compensation represents. I dont think the compensation 
payment as set out by our investigator was to cover the customer service provided to 
Mr C by the company that provided the holiday accommodation. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to expect that his teenage children would 
have a bed each and sufficient space to be comfortable. I think having to deal with this 
when abroad, and so having no choice but to accept the provided accommodation, 
would have caused him distress and inconvenience. I think compensation of £250 is 
fair to reflect Mr Cs loss of enjoyment. 
Ive seen that Tesco has accepted that its handling of Mr Cs claim had caused him 
distress. It said that £50 compensation would be proportionate and fair, and I agree 
with that amount for that action, however as set out above I also think there should be 
a payment for the loss of enjoyment. 
So, I think a total compensation of £300 as recommended by our investigator is fair 
and reasonable. Mr C suffered loss of enjoyment of his holiday and had further distress 
and inconvenience when Tesco declined his claim. I disagree that £50 in total would be 
proportionate in the circumstances.
For the reasons given Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Tesco to do the following:
Reimburse Mr C the difference between the two apartments which has been 
calculated as 767.94 Euros. When converting this, Tesco should use the same rate 
as Mr C received when making the original payment. Interest is to be added to this 
amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr C a total compensation payment of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by loss of enjoyment of the holiday and by Tescos handling of his claim.
Pay Mr C (if it hasnt already) £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its dealing of his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to do the following:
Reimburse Mr C the difference between the two apartments which has been 
calculated as 767.94 Euros. When converting this, Tesco should use the same rate 
as Mr C received when making the original payment. Interest is to be added to this amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by loss of 
enjoyment of the holiday and by Tescos handling of his claim.
Pay Mr C (if it hasnt already) £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its dealing of his section 75 claim.
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman