DRN-2931475
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined to return 
payments from her account that she didnt authorise, and she experienced poor customer 
service.
What happened
Miss S noticed several payments had left her account that she didnt recognise and 
contacted NatWest about them. 
NatWest looked into Miss Ss claim and after their investigation, they declined to return the 
money. They held Miss S liable for the transactions, believing shed authorised them herself.
NatWest said that the payments were made using Miss Ss mobile phone and location data 
 known as Internet Protocol addresses (IP) showed that common locations had been used 
prior to the disputed transactions. NatWest believed this showed Miss S was responsible for 
the payments.
Miss S denied shed made them and argued that the payments were sent to a payee in 
Birmingham and some of the IP address data was related to that area.
Miss S was at home at the time of the transactions and confirmed two close relatives live 
with her but neither of them had access to her phone or knew the pass codes to use her 
online banking. Miss S explained that she had recently used her debit card on a social media 
site, and this could be the reason why the payments were made without her permission. 
Miss S also said that her friends knew her passcodes to access her phone which were the 
same as her banking app.
NatWest investigated Miss Ss complaint and didnt change their position, but they did 
acknowledge that theyd let Miss S down during a visit to a branch shortly after reporting the 
disputed transactions where she was denied access to her funds. Miss S was given access 
to her funds a few days later. Miss S also complained that NatWest failed to update her 
address after shed let them know on a several occasions. NatWest awarded £30 to Miss S 
as recognition for the poor service shed received.
Miss S was unhappy with how the complaint was dealt with and brought it to our service for 
an independent review. It was looked at by one of our investigators who thought NatWest 
acted reasonably when they held Miss S liable for the transactions. She also thought the £30 
awarded to Miss S was a fair level of compensation for the poor service.
Miss S disagreed that she made the disputed transactions and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Its now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that NatWest can hold Miss S liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts, authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence that NatWest are required to show about how a 
payment was made. In this case, several faster payments were made using Miss Ss mobile 
banking facility and the audit data shows that Miss Ss regular device was used to set up and 
make the payments and Im satisfied NatWest have demonstrated that the payments were 
authenticated.
The second part, consent, refers to the agreement between Miss S and NatWest about how 
instructions are made that NatWest will accept as a legitimate authorisation to carry out 
those instructions. The terms and conditions list various examples including use of a debit 
card or the mobile banking service. So, where the correct method was used  in this case 
the mobile banking service, and because the payments were properly authenticated, it 
follows that Im satisfied the transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions to this 
as it wouldnt be fair for NatWest to hold Miss S liable if she didnt agree to the payment.
Theres some reliance on the IP addresses by both parties to support their cases. Miss S 
has said that some of the data shows a Midlands location and as shes not from there it 
couldnt have been her. NatWest have provided evidence that the IP address used to make 
the payments matches one thats been previously used for successful mobile banking 
activities by Miss S. IP addresses dont always show specific locations of the device, they 
can identify other locations used by the internet provider as well. But here theres evidence 
that the registered device used by Miss S made successful transactions that she hasnt 
disputed from the same IP address that the disputed transactions were made from.
I dont think the actual location is as important as the consistency of the location data. Where 
the IP address shows the same location for both successful and disputed transactions, as it 
does here, I think this demonstrates Miss Ss device was more than likely used from a 
location previously linked to Miss S.
Miss S said she lives with close family and she didnt think they knew how to access her 
phone. Miss S said she arrived home mid evening and the only others present were her 
close family members. I dont think it likely the payments were made from close family, even 
if they knew how to access the phone. Thats because the phone was kept in her room and 
the disputed transaction took place over about an eight-hour period, including one which was 
made very early in the morning. This would mean someone entering her room and taking the 
phone on different occasions and replacing the phone which doesnt seem likely with Miss S 
in the room.
Miss S said some of her friends do use her phone and the pass code is the same for her 
banking app, but I dont think its likely that one of her friends used her phone because they 
werent present at Miss Ss home when the payments were made.
There was a successful payment made from Miss Ss mobile device earlier that day which 
hasnt been disputed. Audit records show that the device reference number stayed the same 
for both the successful and the disputed transactions. This indicates it was the same device 
used for all the payments.
The disputed transactions start around the time that Miss S said she arrived home and 
continued into the evening, with the last one early the next morning. There were five faster payments made from the account, four to one person and a fifth to another. They start with a 
small amount of £15.00 and increase to £250.00, the total amount paid out of the account 
was £705.00. If the transfers were as a result of an unknown third-party accessing Miss Ss 
device, they would also have access to the full mobile app and be able to tell exactly what 
funds are available. I find it unusual that a fraudster would make so many relatively small 
payments to two different people over an eight-hour period. It would have been much easier 
and less risky for a thief to limit the number of transactions and do them over a shorter 
period of time to minimise the losses being detected.
NatWest have explained that when their fraud team looked into the transactions, their 
system notes identified that Miss Ss fingerprint was used to access the mobile banking 
service, although Miss S has said this wasnt the case. The audit data is no longer available 
for me to examine, but I have looked at the notes made at the time by the bank which record 
the information the bank relied on, including the use of fingerprint evidence (touch 
identification) to access the mobile banking service.
I appreciate Miss S has said this wasnt the case, but the banks records were created at the 
time the incident was reported by Miss S, and its unlikely that this was incorrect, as the rest 
of the audit data supplied matches the information in the report. So, I think that its more 
likely than not that biometric data (the fingerprint) was used to access the mobile banking 
service on Miss Ss phone. The use of such security makes it unlikely that it was anyone 
other than Miss S who used her phone and set up the payments through her mobile banking. 
But, even if Miss Ss device was accessed using the passcodes, Ive already discounted that 
its likely to be anyone else in the house.
Ive also considered the possibility that her device was hacked after Miss S used her debit 
card details on a social media website some time before the disputed transactions 
happened. Because the disputed transactions used the faster payment system, Miss Ss 
debit card wouldnt have given anyone the appropriate security details to make the 
payments. The faster payments needed access to Miss Ss bank account and were 
payments to other bank accounts rather than debit card payments. So, I dont think its likely 
that the use of a debit card led to the setting up of faster payments Miss S has disputed.
Miss S did suffer a previous incident with her account about six months earlier and Ive 
considered if this previous problem with her mobile banking was the likely cause of this one. 
Since this event, the account has had funds consistently available for a thief to remove if 
they continued to have access from the earlier event, and none were taken. I dont think its 
likely that a thief would wait for six months to take money from the account and theres no 
record of another device being used to access the account.
At the time Miss S reported the disputed transactions she was denied access to her money 
for several days, which the bank apologised for and paid £30 as compensation for the poor 
service. The bank also recognised that theyd let Miss S down when the didnt update her 
address details when she asked them to. Miss S had to visit the bank a second time to get 
access to her funds and whilst this was inconvenient, I think the £30 compensation is a fair 
recognition of the way that NatWest let Miss S down with their poor service.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it was more likely than not, that Miss S 
authorised the transactions and it was reasonable for NatWest to hold her liable for the 
payments. The compensation paid to her for the poor customer service was a fair response 
from NatWest and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman