DRN-2418094
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Limited (PIL) stopped paying benefits in relation to 
claims he made on two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr R became unemployed and successfully claimed benefits under both policies. He said 
those claims started in 2007 with the insurer that had underwritten the polices before PIL 
started to underwrite them from 2013. 
In June 2020, PIL paid what it claimed were the final benefit payments due in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. In its view, each claim was capped at 24 months and, taking 
into account periods when Mr R had undertaken work on a temporary basis, the claims had 
now been paid up to that limit. 
Mr R was unhappy with PILs decision. He felt each time hed returned to work  albeit 
temporarily  this reset the 24-month benefit limit. He believed PIL had stopped his claims 
prematurely and in contradiction to his agreement with the previous insurer.
Because PIL remained of the view it had treated Mr R fairly, Mr R brought his complaint to 
us. Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He believed PIL had been 
entitled to stop the claims when it did. 
Since Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policies pay up to a maximum of 24 months of benefits per claim. However, the terms 
allow for the benefits to be paid non-consecutively. For example, in the event that the 
insured finds temporary employment after becoming unemployed, the benefits can 
effectively be paused and restarted once any temporary employment has ended.
There were certain requirements that needed to be met before claims could be suspended 
and restarted in this way. And temporary work was specifically defined as:
Work that is casual, occasional or for a specific task. Also work that is seasonal or 
irregular, or for a period of training or apprenticeship.
PILs shown that, by May 2020, it had paid Mr R a total of 24 months of benefits for each 
claim dating back to October 2013. During that period, Mr R had taken a series of short-
term, temporary positions. Its not in dispute that Mr R hadnt become a permanent 
employee at any stage in that time. 
Regarding his claims, I believe PIL clearly set out how it was treating his employment and 
the effect that had on his claims. I can see letters in which PIL told Mr R his claims will be 
suspended for the duration of your temporary employment. PIL went on to say If your 
temporary employment becomes permanent please also contact me 
Having carefully reviewed the available information surrounding Mr Rs employment situation 
during that time, I cant reasonably conclude that the claims should have ended before they 
did in 2020 to the effect that each period of unemployment constituted a new claim.  
In order for Mr R to have qualified for a new benefit period of 24 months, hed have had to 
have been working as per the policy terms (and for at least 6 consecutive months before 
making another claim if 24 monthly benefits had already been paid). For the purposes of the 
policies, work included only certain fixed-term work, namely where:
you have worked continuously for the same employer for at least 24 months; 
or
your contract is for at least 12 months and has been renewed at least once 
with the same employer; or
you were originally employed on a permanent basis but were transferred to a 
fixed-term contract by the same employer without a break in employment.
As far as I can see, none of the above can be said to have applied to Mr R during the claims. 
Which means the periods he was working in that time could only ever be described as 
temporary. That being the case, it was fair for PIL to treat those periods as temporary work 
that served to suspend the existing claims rather than leading to new claims.
The evidence suggests to me that Mr R may have been aware of this. For instance, in his 
letter to PIL of 23 June 2015, he advised PIL that a period of temporary work had ended 
earlier that month and that hed decided to register for state benefit  he wanted benefit 
payments under the relevant policy to restart. This indicates to me that Mr R was aware his 
existing claim would be resumed and that no new claim would be raised.  
I realise Mr R believes PIL is somehow treating him differently than the previous insurer did. 
But this complaints about the actions of PIL so I cant comment in any detail on the actions 
of a third-party financial business. However, I believe that PILs treated Mr R fairly under the 
relevant policy terms. Its not bound by the actions of its predecessor. 
In any case, Ive reviewed the policy terms of the previous insurer and I dont believe theyre 
materially more favourable to Mr R with regard to the terms PILs applied.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman