DRN-3587973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a secured loan they have with Together Personal Finance 
Limited. They are unhappy that there was an outstanding balance on the loan at the end of 
the term due to fees and additional interest charged because of a period of financial 
difficulties when the loan went into arrears. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a secured loan in 2009 for £36,000. It was arranged on a repayment 
basis with a term of 10 years. The interest rate was set at 15.65% per annum and the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) was set at £666.73. 
Just over a year later they began having difficulties making the monthly payments. Mr B has 
explained this was due to illness and him being unable to work for a period of time. The 
amount of arrears resulted in Together applying to the courts for possession of their 
property. A suspended possession order was granted in 2012, which allowed Mr and Mrs B 
to remain in their home if they paid the CMP plus an amount to the arrears. 
The initial financial difficulties resolved in 2013 and Mr and Mrs B cleared the arrears in the 
middle of 2017, but the additional interest and charges/fees, while reduced, were not cleared 
by the additional payments being made. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B also suffered further 
financial difficulties in 2018 and the loan went into arrears again. This meant that there was 
still an outstanding balance at the end of the term in 2019.  
The loan term expired in 2019, but it was not repaid. Mr and Mrs B continued to make 
varying payments toward the loan. In June 2020 they complained to Together about the 
outstanding balance of the loan.
Together responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in its letter of 31 July 2020. It explained 
that the outstanding balance was due to the payments having not been maintained in line 
with the loan agreement and the costs of resultant litigation action. Together also confirmed 
that it had completed a review of the interest applied to the loan in February 2019, and a 
credit of £953.80 had been applied to the account. It said that it was satisfied that the 
remaining interest had been applied correctly in line with the loan agreement. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Togethers response and referred the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators initially explained to them that, due to the timescales contained 
within the rules that determined what complaints we can consider, we would only be able to 
look into the administration of the loan from June 2014  six years before the complaint was 
made. Mr and Mrs B accepted this and asked that we consider what we could.
Following the involvement of our investigator Together reviewed the interest that had been 
applied from January 2014. It said that by it agreeing to reduced payments from that point, 
Mr and Mrs Bs situation had become worse. As such Together calculated how much interest 
they would have paid during that period if all CMPs had been made in full and on time. The 
figure calculated was £3,349.16 less than the actual interest charged on the account. 
Together offered to reduce the loan balance by that amount. Our investigator endorsed the 
offer. She concluded that Together had done what it could to support Mr and Mrs B from 
time to time in completing assessments of their financial situation and making payment 
arrangements to suit. She also noted that it had offered to assist them in selling the property 
when Mr and Mrs B were thinking about doing so and it had also recommended that they 
seek independent advice on numerous occasions. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that their main point of 
complaint was that during the term of the loan they paid Together more than the original loan 
agreement had said they needed to, but they still owed a significant amount of money. They 
considered the amount they had been charged for missing the payments they had was 
excessive. 
The investigator responded to Mr and Mrs Bs further comments, but as they remained 
unhappy, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
We consider our jurisdiction at each stage of a complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that we are only able to consider the merits of this complaint for the six years 
before it was made in 2020.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have said that their main point of complaint is that they had paid the amount 
the original contract required of them by the end of the term, but there was still a significant 
amount owing. As has been explained, the amount detailed in the loan agreement as 
needing to be paid was calculated on the basis that all payments were made on time and in 
full. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B werent able to do that. As with all such agreements, 
interest is charged on the amount owed and if that is more than it should be at any point, 
more interest is charged than was anticipated in the original contractual arrangements. 
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as reducing 
interest rates or deferring interest for a period of time. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. In addition, the 
arrangement or concession actually has to help a consumer, and not simply delay the 
inevitable consequence of the loan being unaffordable.
In this case Mr and Mrs Bs situation was a long-term one, but they managed to resolve the 
financial difficulties after a period. They paid the CMP and an amount to the arrears for some 
time and used an inheritance to clear the arrears completely, but there were further missed 
payments and payments below the CMP. During the period I can consider, Together kept in 
contact with Mr and Mrs B and completed assessments of their circumstances and entered 
into payment arrangements where appropriate. It also offered to assist with the sale of the 
property when Mr and Mrs B were considering that option. In the circumstances, I can only 
find that Together did make attempts to assist Mr and Mrs B. 
However, I consider that when it became clear that Mr and Mrs B werent going to be able to 
repay the loan within the term, Together should have looked at additional options to assist 
them, such as reviewing the interest that was accruing. Together has acknowledged that by 
allowing Mr and Mrs B to make reduced payments after January 2014, their overall financial situation worsened. Together has offered to remove the additional interest that accrued from 
all reduced or missed payments after January 2014 from the outstanding balance of the 
loan. Effectively, it has offered to retrospectively reduce the interest rate on the arrears that 
accrued after January 2014 to zero. I consider this offer is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer Together Personal Finance Limited has made is fair in all the 
circumstances. As such, I require Together Personal Finance Limited, in full and final 
settlement of this complaint, to adjust Mr and Mrs B loan balance accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman