DRN-3008993
Complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly in 
increasing his overdraft limit and also unfairly continued applying charges on his overdraft 
which caused him financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint and thought NatWest should have 
realised Mr Ws overdraft had already become unsustainable when it agreed to increase his 
limit in August 2018. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to    
Mr Ws overdraft from this point. 
Despite being provided with a number of weeks to do so, NatWest didnt respond. NatWest 
has since asked for even more time to respond. However, Im satisfied that it has had more 
than enough opportunity to respond and as it didnt respond by the initial extended deadline 
to do so and further time has since passed, I consider it entirely appropriate for an 
ombudsman to now review the case. And Ive done so on this basis.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think NatWest acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from August 2018. By this point, it 
was evident Mr W was struggling financially. A cursory look at his statements leading up to 
this period shows that Mr Ws was repeatedly using payday and other high cost loans 
because he was struggling to make ends meet. Equally, the credits going into the account 
didnt suggest Mr W was in any sort of position to repay £3,000.00 within a reasonable 
period of time either. 
So I think that by August 2018 NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr W with forbearance, rather than increasing Mr Ws limit and 
adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that NatWest should have realised that Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Ws account usage and 
instead increased his overdraft, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what NatWest did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ws 
credit file, it should backdate this to August 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman