DRN-3126733
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mrs C made to Stonehaven UK 
Limited trading as Canada Life in 2020. 
The essence of the complaint is that Mrs C believes Canada Life refused to release the 
mortgage funds after having confirmed that all of the pre-conditions it had imposed before 
it would lend had been met. 
On that understanding, Mrs C sold her existing home and she and her husband moved 
into hotel accommodation. Their stay in hotels was extended much longer than they 
expected, causing them great expense and distress.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customers to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
One point I need to make clear is that although the events giving rise to the complaint 
affected Mrs C and her husband, Mrs C alone applied for the mortgage. That means that, 
under our rules, she alone is eligible to bring the complaint, and our consideration of it is 
confined to how she alone was affected by what happened.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The information pack from 
Canada Lifes solicitors to Mrs Cs solicitor included the following narratives.
We strongly recommend that you do not exchange contracts or agree a completion date 
until we have confirmed that all the lender's requirements are satisfied. When sending us the 
documents, please allow us sufficient time to review them and come back to you with any 
further enquiries.
And:
We will only confirm a completion date and provide a completion statement when we have 
received all the documents required, have satisfied all the lender's requirements and are in a 
position to send a clear certificate of title.
Theres nothing ambiguous or unclear about those narratives. So I can only find in Mrs Cs 
favour if Im satisfied, from the available evidence, of three things:
firstly, that Canada Lifes solicitor gave Mrs Cs solicitors a written undertaking that all of 
Canada Lifes requirements (not just clarification of the indemnity that Mrs C has 
focussed on) had been met;
secondly, that this undertaking was given before Mrs C exchanged on the sale of her 
existing home; and 
thirdly, that Canada Life had been put on notice that Mrs C intended to complete her sale 
before she was ready to complete her purchase.
Im aware of how strongly Mrs C feels about this, but I have  to decide  what  is more  likely,  
on the balance  of probabilities,  given  the available  evidence.  When considering any 
complaint like this, as Mrs C is the one bringing the complaint against Canada Life, for me to 
uphold the complaint means Mrs Cs version of events needs to be more likely than Canada 
Lifes version; not even just as likely. Having done so, Im not satisfied that test has been 
met in respect of any of the three points listed above, let alone all of them.
Aside from the lack of evidence this happened, Ive also noted what Mrs C said to our 
investigator in her letter of 4 July 2021.
It is true that I decided to split sale and purchase BUT, given that the most important 
stumbling block was the indemnity policy, I decided that proceeding with the sale was 
appropriate.
It might have been Mrs Cs opinion that the indemnity was the biggest stumbling block, but it 
wasnt the sole condition to be met before Canada Life would confirm it was willing to 
release finds. Mrs C may consider them unnecessary, and thats her prerogative, but its up 
to Canada Life to decide what its requirements are before it will lend, and its not for me to 
second guess its judgement.
Mrs C doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Canada Life will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mrs Cs right to take legal action against Canada Life over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman