DRN-2199590
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy with the cash settlement offered, and the way Ageas Insurance 
Limited (Ageas) handled their claim. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C had home insurance with Ageas, including cover for accidental damage. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr C throughout my decision. He 
made a claim for damage to his kitchen worktop after a hot pan was accidentally placed 
directly on the surface. Ageas asked Mr C to obtain quotes for the cost of replacing the 
worktop. Ageas checked the quotes against its system, which generated a much lower cost.
Ageas asked Mr C to provide new quotes, excluding the cost of replacing the sink, taps and 
waste pipe. It explained that the policy didnt cover undamaged items. Mr C provided the 
quotes but they were still much higher than Ageass system generated costs.
Ageas passed the claim to its preferred supplier but, in the meantime, Mr C had arranged for 
his own contractor to do the work. Ageas offered a cash settlement for just under £800, 
which excluded the excess but included a payment of £50 for its service shortfalls. Mr C 
didnt think the settlement figure was enough and complained.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. After providing information to Ageas about the 
work done, it agreed its original cash settlement offer was too low. Ageas increased the 
settlement figure to a little over £2000. Our investigator also thought that there had been 
avoidable delays and that £50 wasnt enough to compensate for the service shortfall. Ageas 
increased its offer to £150, which our investigator thought was fair. It had already paid Mr C 
just under £800, so our investigator thought Ageas should pay a further £1383.06 which is 
the outstanding amount after taking off the policy excess.
   
Mr C didnt agree. He said Ageas had confirmed in an email to him that it would cover the 
replacement of the worktop and wouldnt be settling based on its supplier repair costs. He 
also said that Ageas didnt dispute his amended quote or show that it couldve done the work 
for less. Mr C remains of the view that Ageas agreed to pay the replacement cost and would 
like the full amount.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
But I wont be asking Ageas to increase its cash settlement offer. Let me explain.
Ageas agreed to cover the claim for accidental damage, so the only matters in dispute are 
the cash settlement figure and compensation for service shortfalls.
Cash settlement
Mr Cs claim was to be settled in cash because his worktop had already been replaced using 
his preferred contractor. Ageas didnt agree to the work because the quoted cost was in 
dispute. But Mr C thinks it should pay the full cost because it didnt tell him the quote was too 
much.
Mr C sent a quote to Ageas for over £5000 to cover the cost of replacing his kitchen worktop. 
Ageas didnt think that was reasonable because it included undamaged parts of the kitchen. 
The policy says:
If we approve your claim, well ask you to pay the excess. Well then repair or replace your 
damaged, lost or stolen items, or rebuild your property, depending on the type of claim. 
Alternatively, we may make you a cash offer. Well decide which way of paying your claim is 
most appropriate. 
If we suggest a repair, rebuild or replacement, we may offer to use one of our own partners. 
However, if you wish to use someone else, youre free to do so, but if this is more expensive 
than the rate we can get from one of our partners, we wont pay for the extra cost.
Here, Mr C went ahead with his own contractor without letting Ageas know. That meant hed 
removed its option of using its own contractor, leaving it only with the option of a cash 
settlement. Therefore, I think its fair that Ageas pays in line with the terms of the policy, if 
you wish to use someone else, youre free to do so, but if this is more expensive than the 
rate we can get from one of our partners, we wont pay for the extra cost.
I know Mr C thinks Ageas should pay the full amount because it said it would cover the cost 
of replacement and wouldnt be settling based on its supplier repair costs. I think its possible 
he misunderstood what Ageas meant here. Ageas isnt trying to settle based on its repair 
costs. It is offering to settle based on its replacement costs. Ive emphasised the words 
replacement and repair because I think this is the key point of misunderstanding. Ageas said 
it wont settle at the cost of its own contractors (much lower) repair cost, meaning it wouldnt 
be offering Mr C only what it wouldve cost to repair his worktop. This is beneficial to Mr C. 
Ageas said it would cover the replacement cost, but I dont think that should be taken to 
mean it would pay any amount. The replacement cost hadnt been agreed when Mr C 
arranged for the work to be done, so I dont think its fair to expect Ageas to pay an amount it 
had clearly rejected earlier in the process because it was too much.
Mr C said hed assumed everything was accepted because he didnt hear any more from 
Ageas. If there had been a significantly long delay between sending his quote and Ageas 
contacting him, I might understand his view. But Mr C sent the quote at the end of December 
and had the work done towards the end of January. Prior to this, Mr C had taken two months 
to provide the quotes for Ageas to consider. I dont think its unreasonable that Ageas 
refused to pay the full amount when the quote hadnt been agreed. 
So, in line with the terms of the policy, I think its fair that Ageas agreed to a cash settlement 
for the replacement of the kitchen worktop, based on the cost it wouldve incurred using its 
own contractors.
 
Service shortfall
Briefly, Mr Cs policy covers accidental damage on an indemnity basis, meaning Ageas 
would put him back in the same position as before. Ageas shouldve told Mr C from the start that it would be looking to repair his worktop rather than replace it. But it asked for quotes for 
replacement and continued to handle the claim as if it had agreed to replace the worktop. 
Ageas acknowledged this service shortfall and offered Mr C £50 by way of apology. During 
this investigation Ageas offered to increase the payment to £150. 
Given that the dispute now is about the cash settlement figure for the cost of replacing the 
worktop, I dont think Ageas helped matters with this mistake. But, it accepted its mistake 
and Ageas hasnt tried to settle at the repair cost, and I dont think Mr C lost out as a result of 
its mistake, beyond the resulting dissatisfaction about the cash settlement amount. So, I 
think its offer of £150 for the inconvenience caused, in addition to cash settling a fair 
replacement cost, is reasonable. 
In summary, I dont think Ageas handled Mr Cs claim as well as it couldve done, but I think 
it acknowledged its mistakes and made a fair offer to settle the claim. Although Mr C doesnt 
agree with the amount, with the increased compensation Im satisfied that its fair overall.
Putting things right
Ageas calculated the cash settlement on a replacement basis as £2,020.58 and it offered 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience and misunderstanding caused. It has already paid 
£737.52 towards the settlement and £50 compensation. So, after accounting for the 
payments it has already made, Ageas confirmed that a total payment of £1383.06 is due to 
Mr C. I think thats fair in the circumstances described.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ageas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr C £1283.06, which is the outstanding balance of the cash settlement for his 
accidental damage claim, and
pay Mr C a further £100 compensation by way of apology for the mistakes made 
handling his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman