DRN-2822838
The complaint
Mr G and Ms G have complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim 
under their home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr G and Ms G lost power to their boiler. So, they contacted UKI to arrange for an engineer 
to visit under their home emergency policy.
The engineer visited and found that a Residual Current Breaker with Over-current (RCBO) 
needed to be replaced. However, the engineer didnt have one with him, so he carried out a 
temporary repair. When Mr G and Ms G contacted UKI to get the replacement RCBO fitted, 
UKI said it was only required to carry out a temporary repair, so fitting the new RCBO would 
be chargeable.
Mr G and Ms G complained to UKI. When UKI replied it said it the policy only covered 
temporary repairs. However, as there was a vulnerable person at the property that it would 
arrange for a contractor to fit the RCBO.
Mr G and Ms G said the repair had already been carried out. So, UKI said they could submit 
the invoice for payment. However, Mr G and Ms G said they didnt have an invoice as the 
work had been carried out by someone they knew and as part of a range of work to their 
home. UKI said it needed an invoice to refund the cost of fitting the RCBO.
So, Mr G and Ms G complained to this service. They said UKI should have fitted the RCBO 
as part of dealing with the original home emergency call out. They also wanted 
compensation. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy only covered 
temporary repairs, which is what UKI had done during its visit. She also thought it was 
reasonable that UKI had offered to fit a new RCBO as a gesture of good will to resolve the 
complaint or pay the cost of Mr G and Ms G doing so if they could provide an invoice.
As Mr G and Ms G did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 16 April 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said it provided cover:
for up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to cover the cost of 
the call out, labour at your home and parts 
I dont think its clear from the terms and conditions that the policy only covers temporary 
repairs, so I can understand that Mr G and Ms G had an expectation that the RCBO would 
be fitted under the terms of the policy.
Ive also looked at what the engineers notes said about the visit, which included:
No power to boiler and utility room sockets tested 16 amp rcbo. Faulty. Tripping without 
load connected. Don't have this type of rcbo in van stock. Temporary move heating circuit to 
16amp Immersion rcbo. 
Im also aware Mr G has said the engineer fixed the issue in the way he did because he 
didnt have the part with him and that someone could come back and fit the RCBO. I have no 
reason to doubt this and I think its consistent with the engineers report.
UKI has also clarified that fitting an RCBO wasnt itself maintenance, which would have 
meant it wasnt covered by the policy. UKI said fitting an RCBO became a maintenance 
issue because the engineer carried out a temporary repair, which meant the system was 
then working and no longer an emergency.
Ive thought about this carefully. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think if the engineer had 
the part with him, he would have fitted it. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr G and 
Ms G were expected to pay an additional charge for the RCBO to be fitted simply because 
the engineer didnt have one with him. As a result, I intend to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Im aware that, as a gesture of good will, UKI later offered both to send someone to fit the 
RCBO and also to cover the cost of Mr G and Ms G doing so, as they said theyd already 
had the RCBO fitted. I think both of those were reasonable suggestions to try and resolve 
the issue. However, Mr G and Ms G have said they dont have an invoice for the work 
because someone they knew fitted the RCBO as part of a wider range of work. They also 
told our investigator that they hadnt yet paid for the work, although Im not clear whether this 
has now happened. 
Mr G and Ms G have said it cost £115 to have the RCBO fitted. I think its reasonable for UKI 
to want to see evidence in order for it to refund the cost. So, I currently intend to require UKI 
to pay up to £115, subject to Mr G and Ms G being able to provide suitable evidence, such 
as a paid invoice, that they paid this amount for the work to fit the RCBO. It isnt clear to me 
who fitted the RCBO. But if it wasnt fitted by an appropriately qualified person and UKI 
requires evidence that fitting the RCBO met any required electrical standards then I also 
think its reasonable for it to see evidence of this.
Ive also thought about compensation. I currently intend to say that UKI should pay £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of Mr G and Ms 
Gs home emergency claim. I think they had a reasonable expectation that the RCBO would 
be replaced under their home emergency policy and that, when they followed this up, they 
were at times given confusing information about why fitting the RCBO wasnt covered.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 May 2021.
UKI accepted the decision.
Mr G and Ms G said the RCBO was fitted by a qualified electrician and:
the electrician who did some work in my property has replaced the RCBO but did not 
charge as he did some major work already and expected to do some more major work again 
 I recently contacted the electrician to do the work this Spring 2021, but he said he is busy 
for next few months and arrange someone else to do the work. 
So in summary I do not and I do not think I would have an invoice for the RCBO replacement 
and I have not paid yet for that repair.Mr G and Ms G explained trying to resolve the issue with the RCBO caused lots of distress 
and wasted lots of time. Mr G and Ms G also said I said the cost would be £115 based on 
the quote from UKI to me to replace the RCBO, I have not paid anything and I do not have 
any invoice. They asked for the £115 to be paid without an invoice.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons previously 
given.
Ive carefully considered what Mr G and Ms G have said about the work carried out and not 
having an invoice. They have requested that the £115 should be paid anyway. Nonetheless, 
I think it is reasonable for UKI to be provided with evidence of there being a specific charge 
for this work and that it has been paid. This is because it is a refund of money that has been 
paid. Its not a form of compensation or other monetary award. So, I dont expect UKI to pay 
for the replacement RCBO unless Mr G and Ms G can provide evidence that they have paid 
a specific amount for which a refund is due. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that 
its reasonable to limit the amount UKI would need to pay to a maximum of £115.
When I issued my provisional decision, I also said UKI should pay £100 compensation. This 
took into account the distress and inconvenience caused by the circumstances of this case. 
Having considered this case again, including the additional comments provided by Mr G and 
Ms G, I remain of the view that £100 is an appropriate amount for UKI to pay.
  
Putting things right
UKI should refund up to £115 for the RCBO replacement, subject to Mr G and Ms G 
providing suitable evidence of this and pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr G and Ms G.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Refund up to £115 for the RCBO replacement, subject to Mr G and Ms G providing 
suitable evidence of this.
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman