DRN-4145074
The complaint
Mr H complains that PrePay Technologies Limited blocked his account. His money was held 
for far too long. He is unhappy with the lack of communication and would like compensation.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Monese. One of PrePays agents.
Mr H received a credit into his account in September 2021. Monese decided to review the 
account and blocked it. Monese requested information from Mr H which he provided on 
29 September 2021.
Mr H has said that despite numerous attempts to communicate with Monese they failed to 
respond properly. 
Monese completed their review on 24 May 2021 and released Mr Hs money. They also 
closed his account. Mr H hasnt complained about the closure of his account.
Mr H complained to Monese. Mr H was offered £150 for the delays and lack of 
communication, which he accepted. Because he remained unhappy Mr H complained to our 
service
One of our investigators said the review took too long and the communication was poor. He 
thought Monese should pay Mr H an additional £100 for the poor communication and 
interest of 8% from 13 October 2021 to 24 May 2022 for the loss of use of his funds.
Mr H agreed. Prepay didnt. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Monese were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs account. The account terms also allow Monese to 
review accounts and temporarily restrict them.
In Mr Hs case, Im satisfied that Monese was acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
requirements when it reviewed Mr Hs account. The account was recently opened and had 
received a large payment of £1,000. In the circumstances, I dont find it surprising that 
Monese wanted more information about the source of the funds. 
Mr H was very prompt with providing Monese with the information they required.
Having looked at the time Monese took to review the account. I can see that there were 
delays in carrying out the review. Monese have agreed that there were delays and have 
offered Mr H £150 in compensation. The investigator has said that Monese could have 
carried out the review within 14 days, especially as they had requested information from 
Mr H which he had provided, and they didnt ask for anything else. This makes me think 
Monese had all they needed to review Mr Hs account and the source of the payment in 
September 2021. 
I have seen the communications between Mr H and Monese in particular Mr Hs messages 
on the chat. Mr H was originally told that the review would take 7 days. This wasnt the case, 
but Mr H wasnt kept informed about the time the review might take. I can see Mr H found 
this frustrating. Moneses support team werent able to help, and the compliance team didnt 
get back to him.
As Ive said Monese have acknowledged this part of the complaint and offered Mr H £150 
compensation. Although Mr H accepted the payment, he later thought it wasnt enough and 
told Monese. Monese rightly informed Mr H of his right to come to our service.
Monese have suggested that Mr H agreed to the £150 and shouldnt be awarded further 
compensation. Looking at the correspondence I am satisfied that Monese didnt say the offer 
was in full and final settlement of the complaint. And as the funds were still blocked there 
were elements of the complaint that hadnt been resolved to Mr Hs satisfaction. Monese had 
the opportunity to let Mr H know the offer was in full and final settlement, but they didnt. So, 
looking at this as a whole I dont think Mr H is prevented from requesting more compensation 
or that this service is prevented from awarding more compensation in this situation.
In summary looking at the evidence Im satisfied that Monese could have completed its 
review much sooner and released Mr Hs funds. Because of this Monese should pay Mr H 
8% interest for the time it caused the delay in the review and Mr H was unfairly deprived of 
his funds.
I have reviewed the impact Moneses actions had on Mr H, and I am aware that Mr H has 
already received £150 in compensation for the inconvenience caused to him and the lack of 
information about what was happening in his account. This review went on for eight months 
and it isnt clear to me that Monese was actively investigating for most of that period, indeed 
they didnt ask any further information from Mr H which leads me to think they had all the 
information they needed in September when Mr H provided them with his payslip. The delay 
of at least 6 months and the lack of information and updates caused Mr H a great deal of 
distress. Looking at our approach to compensation on this type of situation I think an extra 
£100, making a total of £250 compensation, more accurately reflects the sort of 
compensation we award in these cases. I havent seen anything to make me change that 
view so I am awarding Mr H an extra £100 for the inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I direct Prepay Technologies Limited pay Mr H:
An extra £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused him. Making 
a total of £250 compensation.
8% interest on the balance in his account from 13 October 2021 to 4 May 2022.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman