DRN-2784764
The complaint
Miss S complains that advice given by Portafina Investment Management Limited 
(Portafina) to transfer the deferred benefits of her local government defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme into a self-invested personal pension wasnt in her best 
interests.
Miss S is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In 2018 Miss S was aged 54, single with no dependents, (but one adult son) and had 
deferred benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) with her local authority, 
from employment she left in 2015.
Miss S consulted Portafina about her pension arrangements, having been given their 
details by a union representative. She authorised Portafina to approach the OPS for details 
about her entitlement. 
The transfer value of Miss Ss OPS was £29,415. The scheme had a normal retirement 
age of 65, but benefits could be taken from 60, with a 24% reduction in income and 14% 
reduction in the tax-free lump sum. Portafinas transfer analysis concluded that in order to 
provide the same benefits as Miss Ss OPS, a personal pension would need to grow by 
around 21.9%. And that the cost of the benefits she would be giving up was around 
£90,000. But by transferring she could access the tax-free lump sum at age 55.
Portafina sent a letter with a summary of her OPS benefits to Miss S and invited her to book 
a telephone appointment, which took place with a Portafina paraplanner on 8 January 2019. 
During this meeting Miss S provided some information about her circumstances, and a 
budget planner and risk assessment questionnaire were completed. This recorded that 
Miss S rented a council property, with the rent covered by housing benefit, but she was in 
£900 of rent arrears, which she was paying off. She told Portafina her only income was 
Universal Credit payments, shed been unemployed for over a year and was finding it hard 
to find work due to being deaf in one ear. Although she later told our investigator she 
worked around 12 hours a week as a carer on a minimal wage. But either way, her income 
was inadequate to cover her living expenses. Her attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as 
moderately cautious.
The adviser explained the guaranteed OPS benefits shed be giving up if she transferred. 
And that the rate her pension would need to grow to pay the same benefits was highly 
unlikely to be achieved, so she might be worse off. If she went ahead, Portafinas fee 
would be deducted from the fund after the TFC was released, which Miss S was told 
couldnt be before she turned 55 in April. Miss S was told the information gathered would 
be passed to the qualified pensions adviser for analysis. Portafina sent Miss S a suitability 
report dated 5 February 2019 prepared by one of its advisers. This recommended she 
transfer her OPS to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with provider A, release the 
maximum tax-free cash to alleviate her immediate income shortfall, and invest the balance 
to provide an income in retirement. A further call took place on 15 February 2019 to 
discuss the recommendation.
Miss S accepted the advice and signed the relevant forms. In early March 2019 the 
SIPP with A was opened and in April 2019 Miss S received a tax-free lump sum of just 
over £7,423. The remainder, after deducting Portafinas 7% fee of just over £2,080, was 
invested in a drawdown fund, in line with her moderately cautious ATR. Miss S took four 
taxable withdrawals totalling around £15,830 throughout 2019, which significantly 
depleted the fund in a year.
Miss Ss CMC complained to Portafina in March 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint saying 
Miss S had been made aware of the guaranteed benefits in her OPS shed be giving up, 
But by carrying out a trade-off exercise the adviser decided as Miss S was in financial 
difficulties, accessing the tax-free lump sum to address her income shortfall was more 
important than the pension benefits in the future. The paraplanner had ensured Miss S was 
aware of the potential impact on her benefit entitlement, and she was informed about the 
risks involved. Miss S had no other way or raising the money needed to address her 
immediate financial needs, so on that basis the transfer was in her best interests.
The CMC referred her complaint to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. 
He could see why Miss S may have wanted access to her tax-free lump sum due to her 
income shortfall. He noted that as the transfer value was under £30,000 there was no 
requirement for regulated financial advice. But as Miss S had sought advice from Portafina 
it had to take responsibility for it. Which on balance he didnt think was suitable, as thats 
the starting point for any transfer from a defined benefit pension scheme. He said there was 
no evidence Portafina had explored the prospect of Miss S improving her financial situation 
by finding work. Or that proper consideration had been given to how the lump sum would 
address Miss Ss financial needs over the longer term, as based on her stated income 
deficit the TFC would last for less than four years. Her OPS was Miss Ss only pension 
provision until she became eligible for the state pension at 67, and wouldve provided a 
guaranteed income for life, increasing in line with inflation.
So he upheld the complaint and went on to explain how he thought things should be 
put right.
Portafina disagreed and responded to his view in detail. It said in summary
It had considered Miss Ss circumstances carefully and acted in line 
with all regulatory requirements;
Miss S had an urgent need to address her income shortfall which couldnt be 
met by taking benefits from her OPS, which she couldnt access until 60;
At the time of the advice she was 12 years away from her normal retirement 
age which is a realistic investment horizon;
An annuity had been considered, but Miss S needed more flexibility, and the 
health conditions shed disclosed didnt make her eligible for an enhanced 
annuity;
The investigator considered Portafinas comments, but they didnt change his mind. Hed 
now listened to the call recording of the fact-finding meeting on 8 January 2019 between 
theparaplanner and Miss S. Having done so he didnt think Miss S had fully understood the 
implications of the decision she made. So he still thought the complaint should be upheld.
As Portafina didnt agree its been passed to me to issue a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not in dispute Miss S told Portafina she was in strained financial circumstances, with 
an income shortfall of around £163 per month. I can see why she may have been tempted 
to see accessing her pension to release the tax-free lump sum was the solution to her 
immediate need. But I dont think that is sufficient justification to make the advice to 
transfer and the loss of valuable guaranteed benefits suitable.
As the investigator has explained, the approach of this service when considering transfers 
from defined benefit pension schemes aligns with the FCA guidance (COBS 19.1.6G), 
which is the assumption they will generally not be suitable.
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm 
should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide income in retirement. At the time of the 
advice Miss S was 54, with around 12 years until state pension age. Portafina 
recommended the transfer on the basis that Miss S could release tax-free cash of just 
under £7,429 to address her income shortfall and reinvest the remainder to provide an 
income for her retirement. On the basis her short-term needs were more pressing than 
retirement income later.
The CMC says Portafina didnt warn Miss S about the guaranteed benefits shed be giving 
up, but I dont agree. I can see Portafinas transfer comparator suggested replacing those 
benefits could cost an additional £60,454. And the amount the fund would need to grow 
(the critical yield) would be 21.9% per year. The suitability report warned that if Miss S 
withdrew from her pension shed have less to live on in the future, and that she may 
receive less from a transferred pension than the benefits shed be giving up. The risks 
involved in transferring were explained to Miss S during a telephone call with the 
paraplanner in January 2019, and Miss S had to confirm her understanding.
Ive listened to the call, and Miss S was told the earliest she could access her OPS was 60, 
and that the scheme offered two options. One was a small amount of TFC of £220 and an 
annual pension of £2,221 or TFC of £9,600 and a reduced annual pension of £1,447. Miss 
S was told if she transferred her fund would need to grow by either 27.9% or 21.9% to 
provide the same benefits as her OPS and that this was very unlikely. She was also told 
about the £60,454 funding gap. But when asked if she understood what shed been told, 
she said no, not really. Miss S said she found it difficult to hear and asked the adviser to 
speak to her son who was with her. The Portafina adviser went through the same points 
with Miss Ss son, who conveyed them to Miss S. He asked how soon Miss S could receive 
the TFC, and whether Portafinas fee of around £2,000 would be deducted from the TFC. 
The adviser said for regulatory reasons she had to complete the remainder of the call with 
Miss S rather than her son, even though shed mentioned she found it difficult to hear. Miss 
S said shed hoped to get the money on her 55th birthday. When she found out that wasnt possible the adviser agreed to get the ball rolling without delay, before the fact finding and 
risk assessment element of the call.
I cant fairly say Miss S wasnt warned about the risks inherent in transferring. But Im not 
satisfied she fully understood the implications of what she was being told, as her focus was 
on the opportunity to access the TFC as soon after her 55th birthday as possible. Im 
concerned that given what Portafina had been told about Miss Ss hearing problems, more 
emphasis wasnt placed on Miss S reading the written material carefully before 
proceeding. Miss S had recently changed address, which Portafina knew as the adviser 
had to ask for Miss Ss previous address to complete security. Miss S said she hadnt 
received the options letter dated 7 January 2019 which she shouldve had access to, prior 
to call with the paraplanner, as I can see had been sent to her previous address. This letter 
gives her the critical yield of 21.9% per year and the growth rate of 7.9% and says her plan 
comes with guaranteed benefits. It also warns that Miss S could be left with less to live on 
than she needs, and that taking money from her pension shouldnt be seen as an easy 
way to raise money.
Despite Miss S having not seen an important document prior to the call, being unable to 
clearly hear what she was being told, and admitting she didnt really understand, 
Portafina still felt able to recommend the transfer, which I think was likely to make Miss S 
take any warnings she was given less seriously. I think the entire process was conducted 
in such a way that there was an assumption from the outset that Miss S would transfer in 
order to release the tax-free lump sum. It wasnt really an impartial assessment of 
whether or not Miss S should transfer.
Portafinas welcome letter dated 20 November 2018, which I think she probably did receive, 
tells Miss S that once information has been received from her OPS they will contact her to 
confirm how much tax-free cash you can take from your pension. And that the next step 
will be a telephone interview to detail how her pension can be used to help you achieve 
your goals. I think this approach wouldve raised Miss Ss expectations in terms of 
addressing her short term needs, without fully considering the impact on her long term 
financial future. Miss S told our investigator the reason she looked into accessing her 
pension was just because its a lot of money.
The suitability report dated 5 February 2019 tells Miss S the recommendation within this 
report represents the best pension advice for you, based on your current situation and your 
stated objectives. Portafina recorded Miss Ss objective as follows: I would like to take it 
out as I get very little money each month as it is. Im finding it very hard to get a job as I am 
deaf in one ear and I need special food because of the medication I am on.. I think this is a 
description of why Miss S needed to improve her immediate financial situation, rather than 
a valid long-term financial objective. And although the report warned that Releasing 
pension cash early wont necessarily make sense for everyone Portafina still felt able to 
recommend the transfer because Miss Ss current circumstances justify the loss of these 
valuable benefits at this time stating there was a clear and immediate need  the client is 
in financial difficulty.  Portafina could have recommended against the transfer but 
explained the value of her pot meant she had the right to access her pension, without 
seeking advice.
Its not in dispute Miss S was finding it hard to manage financially. But the adviser didnt ask 
completely open questions for Miss S to answer in her own words. In the part of the call 
where other options to meet her financial needs are explored, the adviser didnt ask if Miss 
S had considered how she could address her income shortfall. Instead the paraplanner said 
she assumed borrowing money wouldnt be an option for Miss S, as she wouldnt be able to 
afford the repayments. But when Miss S was asked whether she intended to remain in 
employment until state pension age, she described herself as a worker and that as soon as she found a job she intended to work round the clock. But her job prospects, or how 
soon she expected her financial situation to improve wasnt explored.
In the 15 February 2019 call the adviser asked Miss S if shed read and understood the 
section in the report relating to risks, and she said she did. But when asked to reflect it back 
she became a bit flustered and said I cant really remember what [the paraplanner] said, I 
just want to move my pension, get my tax free money. I know what Im giving up, Ive got a 
lot on my mind The adviser did refer Miss S back to the relevant page in the report, but I 
think this conversation should have alerted Portafina that Miss S was being influenced by 
the thought of the TFC and wasnt thinking carefully about the decision she was making. 
Miss S wasnt asked to think about how long she thought the TFC would last or how shed 
manage once it ran out.
In the January call Miss S said her only income was from universal credit, around £100 per 
fortnight, and shed been unemployed since October last year. But when asked about 
how she managed given the income shortfall each month, Miss S said she budgeted 
carefully and would cut down in certain areas and was in no debt. So while its clear she 
was finding things difficult and would like more money to live on, Im not satisfied there 
was sufficient urgent need which meant the transfer was essential.
Miss S told the paraplanner shed been unemployed for over a year. But this doesnt align 
with what she told our investigator, which is that shed been working for 12 hours per week 
as a carer. Or with her bank statements which show shed been receiving income from what 
appears to be two employers. This might have been casual work providing inadequate 
income to meet her needs, but it suggests Miss S was able to work. Miss Ss stated 
monthly shortfall would amount to £1,956 over a year. But this isnt borne out by the bank 
statements Ive seen either. She dipped into her overdraft facility but had no debts except 
for her £900 of rent arrears which were being managed by payments of £31 per month. At 
the time of the advice Miss S had just moved, hadnt extended her rent arrears by moving, 
and wasnt at risk of eviction. So while she wouldve benefitted from more income, she 
wasnt in significant financial difficulty, The CMC has confirmed Miss S has since found 
work, so although that wouldnt have been known at the time, Portafina could have 
recommended against the transfer and suggested Miss S take other steps to address her 
income shortfall such as finding better paid work, checking her benefits entitlement and 
reviewing her outgoings.
To be fair to the paraplanner, Miss S was reluctant to discuss her finances, as when being 
asked for information to complete the budget planner Miss S asked why she was being 
asked all these questions, which she found a bit personal. She also told our investigator 
it was her own business how shed have managed financially, if shed been unable to 
access her pension. Ive no reason to dispute Miss S was struggling, but it doesnt follow 
that the best way to resolve her difficulties was accessing her pension, sacrificing the 
valuable guaranteed benefits for her retirement when she had no other provision. 
Portafina should have explained it wasnt able to properly assess the suitability without a 
full picture of Miss Ss financial circumstances.
While I dont think Portafinas advice was suitable, I cant agree with the CMC that they 
took advantage of Miss Ss vulnerable state. Shes disclosed shed been diagnosed with 
anxiety and depression about four years ago (so potentially around the time of the advice) 
and says Portafina was aware of this. But in the January 2019 call Miss S described her 
health as generally good. She gave her height and weight, said she was giving up 
smoking, restated her hearing impairment and the medication (painkillers and B12 
injections) she took for osteoarthritis. She didnt mention any mental health issues, or any 
medication for anxiety or depression. Miss S also completed a medical questionnaire to 
enable Portafina to determine eligibility for an enhanced annuity. But these questions focus on life-limiting medical and lifestyle conditions, and dont ask about mental state. So 
I cant fairly say Portafina shouldve known she was mentally vulnerable. Although as Ive 
said, I think more shouldve been done in respect of her hearing difficulty.
Portafinas report assumed that once Miss S had accessed the roughly £7,429 TFC she 
needed (to address her income shortfall) the remainder would be invested for the future, 
27.94% in global short dated bonds, 67.06% in global equities and 5% cash. Portafina had 
assessed Miss S as being a moderately cautious investor but said that because she was 
many years from retirement the risks involved in having a greater proportion of your 
investments exposed to the markets are lower than they would be if you were closer to 
retirement. I think this strategy weighted in equities exposed Miss S to an unacceptable 
level of investment risk, when she had only a small pot, and very low capacity for loss, 
even with an apparent 12 years investment horizon. Plus she was subject to no charges 
with her OPS, whereas her modest fund was reduced by Portafinas advice charge of 7%, 
which was only payable if she transferred. Plus the SIPP with A has an annual 
management charge of 0.48% plus an administration fee of £75 for each withdrawal. All of 
which increase the investment growth needed to provide the same benefits as the OPS.
Miss S took several sizeable withdrawals from her pension fund during 2019 - £5,842 in 
June, £2,076 in August, £3,780 in November and £4,130 in December 2019. These were 
taxable, as shed already received the maximum tax-free cash. Miss S said the money was 
needed to live on, but shed also put money towards a funeral and for private medical 
treatment for her stepson. Miss S told this service shes still in financial difficulties, so the 
transfer didnt resolve her problem long term, as the funds were exhausted within the year. 
This couldnt have happened if shed remained in the OPS, where shed receive 
guaranteed income for life. Miss S did say in the February 2019 call that shed understood 
what the paraplanner had told her (in respect of the benefits shed be giving up). But when 
asked to reflect it back she was clearly confused. I think Portafina shouldve had concerns 
about whether she did in fact understand. As at one point she says she was thinking she 
might take all the money out to put it in a savings account for her son. Which suggests she 
wasnt thinking clearly about her own financial requirements for the future.
The transfer value of Miss Ss local authority pension was below the £30,000 threshold at 
which she was required to take regulated financial advice. And once she knew she could 
do so, Miss S might simply have gone ahead regardless of what Portafina recommended. 
But Miss S had little experience of financial matters, and as she had consulted Portafina I 
cant say shed have disregarded what the adviser said. And she might have felt reassured 
about the transfer being in her best interests as it was recommended by Portafina. Had 
Portafina recommended against the transfer and Miss S said she wanted to go ahead 
regardless, it could then have decided whether to facilitate the transfer for her on an 
insistent client basis or not.
But Im satisfied that despite Miss Ss financial situation it wasnt suitable advice to 
recommend the transfer. 
So Im upholding the complaint as I dont think Portafina has acted in her best interests.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss S as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss S would 
have remained in her occupational scheme. Portafina Investment Management Limited 
must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidanceas updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in it s Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. It will also reflect the withdrawals 
Miss S has had the benefit of. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Miss Ss acceptance of the decision.  
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss 
Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on her 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Miss Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss S within 90 days of the 
date Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Portafina to pay Miss S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Portafina Investment Management Limited should put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman