DRN-2349770
The complaint
Mr Q complained that Ulster Bank Ltd has transferred funds from his account to his ex-wifes
account. The bank said this was done in response to a court order, but Mr Q said the order
required him to transfer the money, it didnt authorise Ulster to move it.
What happened
Mr Q is involved in divorce proceedings. An order was made on 23 October 2019 by the
court requiring him to pass the legal and beneficial interest in an account held at Ulster to his
ex-wife. There was a little over £17,000 in the account at the time. His ex-wife then
presented the order to Ulster, and asked it to transfer this money to her. Ulster did so.
Mr Qs ex-wife asked Ulster to comply with the order on 25 October. Ulster wrote to Mr Q
about that on 31 October. By the time he received this letter, Ulster had moved the money.
Mr Qs submissions on this are detailed, but they can be summed up as follows  the order
was against him, not Ulster. It didnt oblige or authorise Ulster to act without his agreement.
It was unlawful for Ulster to transfer the money in this way.
Mr Q also stated the order was already being appealed when the transfer was done, and he
had made his ex-wife aware of this, although the email he showed us was timed for the
evening of 25 October, after the bank had closed.
Mr Q tried to get Ulster to move the money back. But on 13 November, Ulster sent Mr Q a
complaint response which said it had received a court order requiring funds from his account
be sent to his ex-wifes account. Ulster said it was obligated to follow the instruction and his
authority wasnt necessary. Ulster said that it hadnt made a mistake, and it wouldnt recall
the money.
Mr Q said that Ulster had delayed the investigation into its mistake, which meant the money
couldnt be reclaimed.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that the order was
addressed to Mr Q, and when Ulster did the transfer, Mr Q still had time to comply with it.
Our investigator thought that Ulster should try to get the money back from Mrs Q, and if it
couldnt, it should repay the money that it had wrongly transferred, it should backdate
interest to when the mistaken transfer had been done. And it should pay Mr Q £200 in
compensation.
Ulster didnt agree. It said it shouldnt have to refund the money it had transferred, because
that would mean that Mr Qs ex-wife would get the money twice, as shes still entitled under
the order to all the money in that account.
Our investigator changed his mind, and suggested a payment of £500 instead, to take
account of the impact of this on Mr Q. But he was no longer suggesting that Ulster should try
to get the money back, or repay the money itself if it couldnt do so.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said we were wrong to assume that the money wouldve had to be
paid to his ex-wife anyway. He said the order was under appeal. Mr Q said that he didnt
know how he would get this money back when his appeal was successful, and he told us
that this had exacerbated his existing anxiety and mental health problems.
Both Ulster and Mr Q wrote to our service, and our investigator reviewed the complaint. He
said there was nothing to suggest that Ulster knew about the appeal when it released the
money. He still thought that Ulster should pay Mr Q £500, but he said that he couldnt ask
Ulster to reverse something that a court had ordered.
Ulster asked why our service was suggesting this amount of compensation. And Mr Q still
thought that Ulster had wrongly transferred the money, and then chose not to recall the
funds when it could have done so.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked Mr Q for the latest information on his appeal, 
and to send through the most recent documentation he had from the court, to set out 
what progress had been made, and what stage this case was at.
Mr Q hasnt sent that information. He said that I should determine the matter on the 
facts of the transaction. He said it was tolerably clear that Ulster had transferred 
money from his account unlawfully. He said that he couldnt understand why there 
would be any need to go beyond this.
Ill explain why I asked for that information.
I think it is clear that Ulster should not have unilaterally transferred this money from 
Mr Q to his ex-wife. The order that was shown to Ulster named Mr Q and the former 
Mrs Q. Ulster was not a party to this order, and it was not bound, or indeed 
authorised, to act as a result of this order being granted. That much is clear.
What is less clear, is the impact this has had on Mr Q. It was my initial view that the 
full impact on Mr Q might not be clear until this court case had been resolved, 
because we might not know until then whether a court had finally awarded this 
money to Mrs Q, or to Mr Q, and if it was awarded to Mr Q, we might not know 
whether it would be willingly returned.
Mr Q hasnt supplied us with any documentation to confirm that his appeal was 
granted, and has not yet been resolved. In the absence of this, Im not able to 
assume that the court case is indeed ongoing.
However, I have reconsidered, and I now think I have sufficient information to decide 
this case. I think that it is, and must remain, a matter for the court to decide on the 
eventual ownership of this money. In order to avoid interfering with that in any way, I 
will not be requesting that Ulster seeks to recover the money from Mr Qs ex-wife. 
And, at the moment, its not in any way clear that Mr Q has lost money that wouldnt 
have been awarded to his ex-wife in any event. For that reason, I wont ask Ulster to 
pay back the money it took from Mr Q.Similarly, as the ownership of this money remains in dispute, I dont think Ulster 
should be penalised for failing to take steps to seek to return this money, when Mr Q 
pointed out its mistake.
I think any award in this case should be in the form of a compensation payment to 
take account of the effect on Mr Q. Our investigator initially suggested £200, then 
raised this to £500 when he decided not to ask Ulster to reclaim the missing money 
or pay an equivalent amount to Mr Q. I dont think that was the right approach to take 
in this case. I dont think its appropriate here to pay compensation to Mr Q to make 
up for not getting the missing money back from Ulster, because Ive explained that 
ownership of this money should be left to the court to resolve.
I think compensation should be assessed, and paid, to reflect the distress and
inconvenience that this matter has caused to Mr Q. I note that Mr Q said this had had 
a serious impact on him, and he mentioned medical conditions which he said had 
been exacerbated by the stress of this.
I have no doubt that this was an unpleasant and stressful experience for Mr Q. In 
these circumstances, I think that it would be fair and reasonable to ask Ulster to pay 
Mr Q £200, in respect of the distress and inconvenience that Ulsters mistake has 
caused him. As I set out above, I make no comment on the eventual ownership of the 
funds, as I understand that either will be, or has been, decided by a court.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ulster said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr Q didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Ulster Bank Ltd must pay Mr Q £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman