DRN-4514020
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what happened when he attempted to extend the term of a hire 
agreement provided by Lex Autolease Ltd Lex.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr B leased a new car, using a hire agreement provided by Lex to 
acquire it. The agreement was initially taken over 36 months, with an initial payment of 
£2,232.14 followed by regular payments of £372.02.
Around September 2021 Mr B requested to extend the lease and this was accepted for a 
year. Then, around August 2022 Mr B says he extended the lease again for another year. 
But, he says Lex then took a higher monthly payment than agreed.
Mr B complained to Lex and it issued a final response in March 2023. This said, in summary, 
that in September 2021 Mr B signed a modified agreement to extend the term of the lease. It 
said an application was then approved for the second extension.
Lex said a message was sent to Mr B via his online account saying he needed to sign an 
agreement for the extension to be put in place. And it said an email was sent to Mr B asking 
him to log into his account. But, Lex explained Mr B did not do so. So, it said the formal 
extension was not set up and Mr B entered into an informal extension which was why he 
was charged a higher amount.
The car was then returned to Lex towards the end of April 2023.
Mr B was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He said, in summary 
that he wasnt required to sign any documents for the extension as a credit check had been 
carried out. He said Lex were being unprofessional and committing fraud. He said he never 
consented to being on a rolling contract. And he said he was unhappy the situation had now 
affected his credit record.
Our investigator issued a view and did not uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that 
Lex didnt do anything wrong by not formally extending the term of the lease in 2022 as Mr B 
didnt sign an agreement. He said the terms and conditions of the contract Mr B did have 
explained that if the car wasnt collected the agreement would continue on an informal basis, 
so he didnt think Lex did anything wrong. And he said Lex had explained Mr B didnt pay the 
amounts due for his informal extension in full, so it was right to report this to credit reference 
agencies.
Mr B was unhappy with this. He said, in summary, that it was never requested that he sign 
documents online when he extended the lease. He said hed asked Lex for a copy of these 
documents but he never received them. He said hed been declined lending elsewhere 
because of what happened. And he said he didnt pay the amounts due for the informal 
extension as he didnt agree to these.
Mr B also raised some additional points with our service at this point. He said he shouldnt 
be liable for the April 2023 payment as he asked Lex to collect the car prior to this. Mr B said 
his credit file showed there was a balance of £821 outstanding, but said he paid £550.69 and 
then £270.69 towards the agreement so believes this should be shown as settled on his 
credit file.
Mr B also provided part of a further final response to a complaint from Lex.
As Mr B had continued to disagree with the outcome, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I asked Lex to provide some further details about the further final response Mr B had 
provided part of, as the issues mentioned appear to all be linked. Lex responded and said 
Mr B had made two further complaints to it about the agreement, which broadly were the 
same as the additional points he raised to our service after the investigator issued his view.
Lex provided copies of two further final responses to Mr Bs complaint. The first dated April 
2023 explained, in summary, that Lex was right to record information on Mr Bs credit file as 
the informal extension had been set up correctly. Lex did say however that it should have 
acknowledged that Mr B requested the car be collected in an email from March 2023. It said 
because of this, if the car was collected within 14 days, Lex would credit payments back to 8 
April 2023, which is when Mr B said he stopped using the car.
The next final response was dated 19 June 2023. This explained, in summary, that while 
Mr B had made credits to the account since the informal arrangement started, he still had 
arrears of £748.88 on the account. So, Lex said it was right to report this to credit reference 
agencies. This final response also explained the account had been credited with £297 and 
£10 for the period of 3 April to 24 April 2023, in line with Lexs offer in the previous final 
response.
These further complaints are all linked to Mr Bs original complaint he raised with our 
service, as the crux of the issue is the informal extension and subsequent reporting on his 
credit file. I asked Lex if it was happy for me to address the specific points raised in these 
further responses in this decision, which it said it was.
I sent Mr B and Lex a provisional decision on 29 November 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr B complains about Lexs actions in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity. So Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Bs complaint against Lex.
Mr B has written at some length about these issues. I may not comment on everything Mr B 
has told us nor every individual point raised. I want to reassure both parties that this doesnt 
mean I consider things unimportant nor that I havent reviewed everything. While Ive 
carefully thought about all of the information on the case, Im going to focus on what I 
consider the crux of Mr Bs complaint and the key facts. This reflects the informal nature of 
our service.
Extension of agreement in 2022
It isnt in dispute here that an extension was applied for and agreed. What I need to consider 
is whether any further action was needed from Mr B, and whether he wouldve been 
reasonably aware of this.
Mr B is adamant he didnt need to sign anything and that the credit search was the end of the process for the extension to be put in place. But, he hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
And I think its clear Lex are in a better position to give an accurate explanation of its 
application process than Mr B is. Lex has explained following the credit search, Mr B needed 
to sign an agreement.
Lex have explained Mr B was sent a message on his online account explaining he needed to 
sign an agreement for an extension to be put in place, and was sent an email asking him to 
log on to his online account. I think this wouldve been enough to alert Mr B that he needed 
to sign the agreement. And I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely Mr B 
wasnt sent these communications.
Mr B is unhappy Lex didnt chase him to sign the agreement. I can understand his frustration 
here, and I can see in this particular case this may have benefitted him. But I can also see 
the reasoning behind Lexs explanation, that it doesnt chase consumers as it does not wish 
to pressure them to sign contract extensions.
The key thing here is that I think Mr B wouldve been aware he needed to sign the extension, 
and Lex werent required to chase him to do so. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Thinking about everything here, I dont think Lex did anything wrong by not putting the 
extension in place when Mr B didnt sign a new agreement.
Informal extension
Mr B says he never agreed for the agreement to be extended informally. Ive reviewed the 
terms and conditions Mr B agreed to when he acquired the car. These explained an informal 
extension would be put in place if the agreement expires, until the car is collected. The 
agreement later explains as an alternative to this, Mr B could request a formal extension.
The amount Mr B was charged for the informal extension was slightly less than that set out 
on the original agreement. Lex have explained this was based both on the amount of the 
original agreement and the extension, which seems reasonable.
Thinking about this, I think Mr B agreed for the hire period to be informally extended if the 
agreement reached an end without a formal extension in place. Im satisfied this is what 
happened in this case.
This also seems a fair and reasonable course of action to take   Mr B kept the car and so 
Im satisfied he should pay for the use of it. So, I dont think Lex did anything wrong here.
Credit reporting
Having reviewed things, Im satisfied Mr B didnt make the full repayments towards the 
informal contract extension. As above, Im satisfied these payments were due from him. So, I 
dont think Lex did anything wrong by reporting this information on his credit file.
Mr B has recently explained he has made repayments to the agreement that arent showing 
on his credit file, and the amount reflected that he owes is incorrect. But, the evidence hes 
provided doesnt convince me Lex reported inaccurate information.
Lex has shown no payments were made to the agreement for January and February 2023. 
Mr B showed a snapshot of his credit file, showing a balance owed equalling two months 
arrears. This seems to be accurate. And I havent seen this was cleared before the date of 
the screenshot.Mr B has shown he made a payment of £270.69 towards the agreement as he explained. 
But this payment was dated after the repayments were due, after the credit report was 
updated and after Lex sent its latest final response. So I still havent seen enough to make 
me think incorrect information was being reported on Mr Bs credit file.
Return of the car
Lex has upheld this part of Mr Bs complaint. It said it shouldve acknowledged when Mr B 
asked to return the car at the end of March 2023. It explained it would credit the account for 
the period Mr B stopped driving the car if it was then returned. I think this offer was fair and 
reasonable. And Lex has already confirmed the account was credited. So, it needs to take 
no further action on this point.
I gave both parties two weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence. Neither 
Mr B nor Lex followed up with anything more for me to consider in relation to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information about this case again, I still think it should not be 
upheld. This is due to the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman