DRN-4516174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the advice they received from The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) to invest in a bond. They are unhappy that they are 
unable to assign segments of the bond to their daughters as they had intended. They say 
the advice given to them was unsuitable to meet their needs for a flexible arrangement. 
What happened
In March 2015, NFU recommended Mr and Mrs D invest £100,000 into a Flexibond. Three 
subsequent top-ups were made to the investment in October 2015 (£100,000), March 2017 
(£100,000) and April 2018 (£960,000), all following further advice from NFU.
In December 2022, Mr and Mrs D raised a complaint with NFU after they incurred problems 
when trying to release funds from the investment for one of their daughters. They said the 
bond wasnt suitable for them as they didnt have the flexibility they needed to make changes 
and specifically assign segments of the bond. They said they werent informed of this 
inflexibility in 2018, and had they been, they would have invested their funds differently. 
NFU responded but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
During each of the financial reviews it conducted between 2015 and 2018 it was 
noted that Mr and Mrs D didnt want to take inheritance tax planning into account 
when planning their investments  but the adviser recommended this should be 
reviewed at their earliest opportunity.
It has no record of a stated requirement to be able to assign or put individual 
segments of the bond into trust. The bond isnt designed to allow part assignment to 
different owners, or to be put partially into trust. The bond has individual segments 
only to minimise any chargeable gain that arises as a result of a payment being taken 
from the plan.
The key features document issued at the time confirms ownership can be
transferred to another person or company, but does not indicate part of the bond
can be transferred. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with this conclusion, so referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He also didnt 
uphold it. In summary he said: 
NFU informed Mr and Mrs D they should review their inheritance tax mitigation. 
He thought NFU had adequately explained the features of the policy.
He didnt find Mr and Mrs D had an objective at the time of the initial sale to invest 
funds for their children or any suggestion they wanted to assign the bond to them in 
the future. 
He noted in the most recent advice in 2018, there was a specific objective to present 
funds to their children, but this wasnt in relation to allocating the funds in the bond 
fund to them at that time or in the future.
He acknowledged the reference Mr and Mrs D make to wanting to assign some of 
the segments that make up the investment but didnt find that NFU told them they 
could do this. He noted the Key Information Document stated You can transfer 
ownership of the policy to another person or company - but doesnt say anything 
about assigning or putting individual segments into trust. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the assessment. Their representative provided further 
arguments. In summary they said:
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on Cluster Policies  Good 
Practice for Providers sets out that policyholders should have the option to fully 
surrender segments or withdraw across the bond as a whole. So, having a product 
that doesnt allow for this choice isnt fair and reasonable. The most tax efficient 
surrender method depends on the investor's individual circumstances and shouldnt 
be dictated by the provider.
The suitability report refers to the ability to invest in a tax-deferred environment so 
that you can decide the level of tax paid on any gains, also the ability to assign 
proceeds to a lower rate tax payer and to place the bond into trust in the future. The 
Flexibond has limitations with regard to these objectives which werent fully 
explained.
Mr and Mrs D have relatives who have a complaint about the same product with 
similar concerns. The initial decision on this was to uphold the complaint. They see 
their complaint as fundamentally the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it would be helpful to explain that Im only considering the advice Mr and 
Mrs D received to invest in bond in 2015, and also the subsequent top ups. So, I will be 
reaching a decision on whether the bond, and the subsequent top ups were mis-sold. Im not 
considering any events or actions that have occurred subsequent to the sales. If Mr and Mrs 
D do have concerns about the management of the bond (including surrender issues) these 
will need to be raised separately with NFU. 
 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint concerns the sale of a bond and whether it gave them the 
flexibility they required. The concerns are specifically the inability to assign segments of the 
investment and consequential implications of not being able to do this. While they havent 
raised specific concerns about the broader suitability of the underlying investment, I have 
considered this as part of my overall findings on the suitability of the advice. Their attitude to 
risk was assessed alongside their capacity for loss, taking into account their wider 
circumstances. The bond recommended (and the top-ups) were suitable for their recorded 
need for capital growth. They dont appear to have had a specified requirement for future 
access to the funds over the short term, so the product was suitable over the medium to long 
term.  This is all supported by the information that is recorded in the point of sale 
documentation NFU has provided. 
The key issue in dispute relates to Mr and Mrs Ds understanding that they would be able to 
assign segments of the bond to their daughters or put them into a trust. Ive reviewed the 
available evidence from the initial sale and the subsequent advice to make the top-ups to 
see what was discussed about this. 
When the bond was taken out, I can see from the recommendations letter Mr and Mrs Ds 
main objective was for capital growth over the longer term (10 years+). I havent seen 
anything to suggest they was a clear plan to gift segments of the bond or put it in trust.  
There is a reference to taxation and specific risks warnings on this. I note theres a warning 
regarding tax status and the potential for additional income tax charges when the investment is surrendered. There is also a reference to considering taking regular withdrawals at some 
point in the future, but nothing specific to assigning segments of the bond. 
The sales paperwork for the later 2015 and 2017 increments into the bond contain similar 
information. But there is an additional reference to Inheritance tax (IHT) that says Mr and 
Mrs D dont wish to take this into account when planning for investments. There is a note 
from the advisor that explained their beneficiaries could be facing a very large IHT bill. In the 
2017 recommendations letter further information is given about why the bond meets Mr and 
Mrs Ds specific objectives  this includes commentary on the ability to invest in a tax-
deferred environment so they can decide the level of tax paid on any gains by structuring 
withdrawals to suit (but with no plans to take any). It also reference the ability to assign 
proceeds to a lower rate taxpayer and to place into trust in the future if they identify they 
don't want the proceeds themselves. 
The 2018 point of sale paperwork reaffirms the objective for growth over the longer term. It 
also repeats the reasons to support the recommendation about deferring tax, assigning the 
proceeds to a lower rate taxpayer and placing the investment into trust. It again notes that 
there are no plans for a few years to withdraw anything from the bond. There is also no 
mention of a requirement or objective to assign segments or gifting parts of the investment to 
Mr and Mrs Ds children. 
Ive also reviewed the Key Features Document and Policy Document that was provided by 
NFU to explain the workings of the bond. These cover the main features of the investment 
and the terms and conditions. There is information about the flexibility of the product, 
withdrawals and details that the investment can be assigned. It also covers the tax 
implications of making withdrawals and transferring the bond to another person. But I havent 
seen anything that says segments could be assigned. 
While I accept that it does seem likely Mr and Mrs D wanted lexibility with their investment, it 
doesnt seem there was an overriding objective for segments of the investment to be 
assigned to their daughters at particular time. The bond they were recommended did allow 
them some flexibility with regards to withdrawals, surrender and assignment, so Im satisfied 
flexibility was taken into account as part of the advice. 
I have noted the comments made by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives including those about 
the ABI guidance on cluster policies  including the point about the most tax efficient 
surrender method depends on the investor's individual circumstances and shouldnt be 
dictated by the provider. I also note the reference to relatives of Mr and Mrs D having a 
complaint about the same product with similar concerns upheld.
Firstly, each complaint is considered on its own individual merits. So, my considerations of 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint are specific to them and the evidence available in relation to it. It 
isnt clear from what Ive seen whether Mr and Mrs D have gone on to surrender their bond 
and incurred a tax liability. If Mr and Mrs D have surrendered their investment or are still 
considering this and have concerns about how this has/will be actioned, they should contact 
NFU in the first instance about this. I dont consider this relates to the complaint Im 
considering about the suitability of the original recommendations
Overall, I havent found reason to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the initial investment 
and subsequent top-ups met Mr and Mrs Ds needs and recorded objectives that were 
established through the advice process. It is possible with the benefit of hindsight that 
investing in an alternative product could have met those objectives and potentially allowed 
them more flexibility with regards to their tax liabilities. But I dont think this means the 
original advice must have been unsuitable. In conclusion, Ive not been persuaded that the 
complaint should be upheld, so I dont find that NFU needs to do anything further. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman