DRN-2587182
The complaint
Mr C has complained that esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, (esure) 
didnt offer a general refund on his motor insurance policy due to the Covid 19 pandemic and 
requested an additional premium when Mr C asked to reduce the mileage on his policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy in October 2019 which referred to anticipated mileage of between 
2,001 and 3,000 miles per year. Mr Cs representative called esure in May 2020 to ask about 
reducing the mileage to 500 miles per year, but he was told he would need to pay an 
additional premium to do so. He therefore didnt proceed with the change.
Mr Cs representative made further contact with esure in May 2020 to discuss the fact that 
other insurers were offering refunds on insurance policies because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. esure explained that it wasnt offering refunds to policyholders on a general basis. 
As Mr C felt the situation was unfair, his representative complained to esure in May 2020. 
esure didnt respond to the complaint at the time, however eventually issued a final response 
letter in January 2021.
esure explained that it hadnt been offering general refunds in May 2020 and said that the 
premium increase of 51p was in line with its pricing guidelines. It also explained that it had 
contacted all policyholders in June 2020 and offered refunds if there was a significant 
change in the mileage. It said that the criteria for a refund referred to a minimum of 3,000 
miles and therefore Mr C didnt qualify for a refund.
esure did accept that it hadnt responded to Mr Cs complaint of May 2020 and offered £100 
in compensation to apologise for that. Mr C remained unhappy and he therefore made a 
complaint to this service. An investigator looked into the matter and came to the following 
view.
The investigator appreciated why Mr C would have expected a refund to be given as the 
mileage was being reduced, however she noted that its not always the case that a change 
in circumstances results in a refund. She was satisfied that esure had followed the industry 
rules and had treated Mr C the same as any other customer with the same circumstances as 
Mr C.
The investigator also considered the question of a general refund. She noted that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to insurers in June 2020 in relation to 
product value in the light of Covid 19. The investigator included a link to a publication 
relevant to this point. She noted that esure did complete the review in June 2020 as the FCA 
asked insurers to do and that it had been completed fairly. Because of this, she said that she 
couldnt ask esure to do anything more.
Mr C remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has now been 
referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ombudsman, Im required to consider whether esure has acted fairly and reasonably in 
its handling of this matter, and I reach a judgment on the balance of probabilities
Firstly, its the case that the FCA doesnt regulate the prices that insurers charge or the 
methods they may use to calculate a price, so that the price an insurer sets is its own 
commercial decision. In the circumstances, this service doesnt look into esures method for 
assessment of risk or the premium it charges to cover a particular risk. Neither does it look at 
the amount charged when an adjustment to the policy is being made. Im able to decide if 
esure has treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in applying that method however. I would for 
instance expect Mr C to be treated in exactly the same as other customers in the same 
situation.
Ive seen information which esure has provided to the service to explain how it calculated the 
costs of Mr Cs policy with the reduced mileage. Im satisfied from studying this that esure 
has treated Mr C fairly and impartially. I can see that its applied the same criteria when 
calculating the cost of Mr Cs insurance as it applies to all their other customers in the same 
position. 
I can understand that it may seem illogical that a reduction from 3,000 to 500 miles 
anticipated mileage produces an increased premium. Ive seen esures pricing model 
however and esure explains that risk may be higher where customers annual mileage is 
lower. Im satisfied in the circumstances that esure has provided clear evidence to support 
its position in relation to non-reduction of premium, when Mr C asked to reduce the mileage 
on his policy. 
Ive also considered whether esure should have given Mr C a general refund. Ive looked at 
the relevant FCA guidance issued in June 2020. This guidance for insurers asked insurers to 
assess how Covid 19 may have materially affected the value of their insurance policies. The 
guidance states; This guidance does not create an expectation that firms should reassess 
the value of policies at a policy level because of coronavirus where claims are still generally 
possible but the likelihood of a claim may have changed, eg reduced car usage
Ive also noted what esure said in their final response letter to Mr C as follows; When you 
spoke to us in May 2020, we werent offering premium refunds, but did have other initiatives 
in place to support our customers. In June 2020, we wrote to customers highlighting all the 
support initiatives that were available. From that point we were able to look at whether 
customers may be eligible for a partial refund from 01 April to 01 July 2020, if their mileage 
had gone down significantly during the lockdown period. However, in order for customers to 
be eligible for temporary mileage reduction refunds, they had to be travelling more than 3000 
miles per year. What I can see is the mileage was set at 2000  3000 miles per year on this 
policy, which means you werent eligible for this particular initiative.
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that that esure did complete a comprehensive 
review in June 2020 and I cant say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in not making a 
general refund in premium to Mr C. It treated all customers in this situation in the same 
manner.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr C and appreciate also that Covid 19 has caused 
significant difficulties, however I cant say that esure have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the operation of its policies in relation to Mr C.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I dont direct 
esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman