DRN-3083686
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont reimburse him for transactions he 
says he didnt make or allow anyone else to make. 
What happened
On 2 February 2021, a faster payment of £270 was made into Mr Js account. Santander 
placed a block on Mr Js account while it investigated this.
Two days later, on 4 February, Mr J called Santander to query why he was unable to access 
his account. During this conversation Mr J explained he didnt recognise the above 
transaction.
When Santander asked Mr J about his recent account activity, he said there were three 
payments from his account that he didnt recognise. The details of the disputed payments 
are set out below  they all took place on 2 February.
Payment information Debit/Credit
BILL PAYMENT VIA FASTER PAYMENT TO SSLTD
REFERENCE PORT121240.00 Debit
BILL PAYMENT VIA FASTER PAYMENT TO SSLTD
REFERENCE PORT121200.00 Debit
FASTER PAYMENTS RECEIPT 
REF.LOAN FIRST INTALLM FROM MARGRAI270.00 Credit
BILL PAYMENT VIA FASTER PAYMENT TO PAWEL
ZATORSKI REFERENCE270.00 Debit
During this call, Mr J explained that his mothers account with another bank had been 
compromised recently. He said the payment of £270 from his account went to a person with 
the same name as payments from his mothers account and that shed had this refunded. He 
thought his computer might be compromised and so he hadnt used it in a couple of days.
Mr J also said he hadnt received any cold calls, clicked on any email links, or shared any of 
his account information with anyone.
Santander investigated the matter and declined Mr Js claim. It said the evidence indicated 
that Mr J had authorised the payments. Due to further concerns about the account activity, 
Santander later decided to close the account.
Mr J complained saying that he didnt recognise these payments and thought he should be 
reimbursed.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought that 
Santander had acted fairly in taking the decision not to reimburse Mr J.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators conclusion. He maintains that these payments were 
fraudulent  so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, Im not making a finding here in relation to the closure of Mr Js account as he 
hasnt complained about this. This complaint concerns whether Santander has acted fairly in 
holding Mr J responsible for the payments hes disputed.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mr J 
is responsible for any payment that he has authorised. So, the key question here is whether 
Santander has acted fairly in concluding that Mr J did authorise the disputed payments. I 
think it has and Ill explain why.
For a payment to be authorised, Santander must show that it was authenticated correctly 
and why it thinks Mr J consented to it. Here Santander has provided evidence to show the 
payments were made through Mr Js online banking. Mr Js secure information was entered, 
and the payment instruction was executed correctly. As part of this process one-time 
passcodes sent to Mr Js mobile number were also entered into his online banking. This 
means that the payments were correctly authenticated. The remainder of this decision 
focuses on whether Mr J consented to the payments.
Santanders records show Mr Js online banking was accessed from the same IP address 
that is usually used to manage this account. Mr Js secure login information was used in 
addition to the OTPs sent to Mr Js registered mobile number. This means that whoever 
made the payments had access to both Mr Js secure information and to his mobile phone or 
that Mr J shared this information.
I understand Mr J says that his mothers account was also compromised previously, and 
they used the same computer to conduct her online banking. However, even if Mr Js 
computer was compromised, theres no explanation for how a third party was able to use the 
OTPs sent to Mr Js mobile phone without his involvement. Mr J has repeatedly confirmed 
that he didnt share any secure information. So, on balance I think its more likely than not 
that Mr J did make the disputed payments. 
I note that there was a credit of £270 into the account referencing a loan instalment, and the 
same amount was transferred out to a new payee. This indicated that the person who made 
these payments was aware of the incoming amount. I understand that Mr J was previously 
the victim of a scam where he sent payments to a third party. However, Mr J has been clear 
that this is unrelated and that he had no knowledge of these payments. So, I have not 
concluded that he made these payments as part of a scam. I therefore agree Santander has acted fairly in treating these payments as authorised and in declining Mr Js request for 
reimbursement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman