DRN-4363945
The complaint
Mr M says Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) was negligent in its fund selection leading to a fall 
of over 25% in the value of his pension pot in the year up to his retirement.
What happened
Mr Ms Group Personal Pension Plan was established with Royal Sun Alliance (now 
Phoenix) in January 1999. His contributions were invested in the lifestyle option. That 
meant his pension funds were automatically switched into lower risk funds as he approached 
retirement. His plan had a retirement age of 65, which he reached in 2023.
In January 2023 Mr M was sent a wake-up pack. This set out details of his plan and what 
his options were for accessing his pension. The value of his pot was recorded as around 
£48,000. However, his statement from January 2022 had indicated a fund value of nearly 
£61,000.
In March 2023 Mr M complained to Phoenix about the fall in value of his pension pot 
between 2022 and 2023. He said this had been the direct result of Phoenixs failure to 
adequately manage the investment risk levels within the plan. It responded to Mr M in June 
2023 rejecting his complaint. It said the reduction in the value of his pension plan was a 
result of market conditions and beyond its control. There had been no guarantees.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this Service. He told us:
The pension plan contained "lifestyling" which was intended to reduce the level of risk as I 
approached my retirement age of 65Phoenix had complete control over the specific funds 
which they used for this purpose and I was reassured that in the final years of the plan that 
the majority of it was invested into the "Pension Protector Fund" which I assumed to be safe 
and secure. However in the final months the value of the fund fell by more than 25.00%. I do 
not believe that in selecting the appropriate funds for "lifestyling" that Phoenix ever took into 
account the changes which had happened in pensions legislation since the plan was first set 
up (ie pensions freedoms) or the prevailing macro-economic environment. I believe that they 
have been negligent in their fund selection for my requirements.
My pension fund dropped by £15,000 (over 25% in a relatively short period of time). This 
has left me with a shortfall in my pension plans and I have less income as a result.
The Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. He didnt think Phoenix 
couldve foreseen the market turbulence that his pension plan suffered during the year 
before he drew on his funds. Mr M disagreed and he reiterated his main arguments. As both 
parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around the services like those 
performed by Phoenix for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains twelve Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 2.1.1 R in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Theres no dispute about the basic facts. And I recognise that the fall in the value of Mr Ms 
pension pot between 2022 and 2023 when he accessed his benefits was very disappointing. 
I think Mr Ms own testimony when responding to the Investigators view actually gets to the 
nub of the issue. He said:
Whilst I accept that market conditions since early 2022 have been poor, particularly in 
relation to UK Gilts, this does not excuse the inability of Phoenix to provide a life styling 
strategy which was fit for purpose. When the plan was first established back in the 1990's I 
understand that it was commonplace for most Personal Pension Plans to be used to 
purchase an Annuity. With the Phoenix Life Styling strategy any reduction in the value of 
Gilts in the lead up to retirement would be offset by the increase in Yields, and therefore 
Annuity Rates.
However since the introduction of Pension Freedoms in 2015 the purchase of Annuities 
have become less popular, by the end of 2021 less than 10% of pension funds accessed for 
the first time were done so to purchase an Annuity. Therefore the Life Styling Strategy 
employed by Phoenix could no longer be deemed to be fit for purpose, as it used an 
investment fund which might be unsuitable for more than 90% of plan holders. Furthermore 
by using the name "Pension Protector" despite the fund having no form of protection, was 
clearly misleading. This continues to be the case as Phoenix have not changed the name of 
this fund, despite it falling in value by nearly 40% over the calendar year of 2022.
The sort of fund to which an increasing proportion of Mr Ms pension was allocated as he 
approached retirement was designed to do two things. Firstly it moved him away from 
medium and higher risk investments into generally more stable fixed interest investments. 
And by doing so, it was also offsetting to some degree any negative movement in those investments, because the generally countervailing movement of annuity rates would likely 
afford some protection of the funds purchasing power (had he opted for an annuity).
The objective of the fund Mr M complains about was:
To broadly protect monetary value of your pensions against interest rate movement by investing 
mainly in longer term government fixed interest securities whose value should normally rise as 
annuity rates fall and vice versa.
I understand the point Mr M makes about pension freedoms which have increased the 
options available to plan holders for how to use their funds. And that fewer people now take 
annuities (arguably driven by low rates which have persisted until relatively recently). 
Nevertheless, the underpinning approach of the Pension Protector fund appears to have 
been borne out by experience.
The Investigator said
The Pension Protector fund invests predominantly in long dated securities issued by the UK 
Government, so effectively fixed interest investments. This sector has historically offered 
steady lower risk returns but the combination of events over the last few years has resulted 
in high inflation and regular interest rate rises since the end of 2021. That in turn has caused 
the value of funds invested in long term Government stock to fall in value which is why your 
pension performed so badly throughout 2022.
I agree with this finding. A combination of major movements in inflation and interest rates 
which were without recent precedent had a significant impact on the value of Mr Ms fund 
during its final year. But these were unforeseen by most and appear transitional. I dont think 
a reasonable argument could be made that Phoenix shouldve changed its long-term 
strategy  which did protect the purchasing power of funds to some degree with reference to 
annuities - to cater for short term volatility. It had to have an eye on the interests of all its 
customers.
It wasnt Phoenixs role to provide Mr M with independent financial advice. But I can see that 
it sent him annual statements. These provided a range of information about the value of his 
fund, how it was invested and about what he should be considering. For example in January 
2021 it said:
You should review your pension arrangements regularly. If your circumstances or retirement 
objectives have changed it may be in your best interests to review your choice of pension 
product and the investment choices within your pension. We recommend that you take 
regulated advice or seek appropriate guidance to help you to understand your options at 
retirement.
In the same letter it also reminded Mr M:
The value of unit fund investments is not guaranteed and can go down as well as up 
depending upon the performance of the fund(s).
You now need to think about whether your plan will still provide the lifestyle you expect in 
retirement. Taking time to review your pension and making appropriate improvements now 
will be time and effort well spent. It means that you don't wait until you retire to find out that 
your pension is not enough for your needs. You should consider getting further information 
or advice before you review your pension arrangements.
I can see a similar pattern of information was provided to Mr M in later statements.I understand Mr M is very disappointed with the value of his personal pension fund. The 
timing of drawing on his benefits was unfortunate. But I havent seen any evidence that 
Phoenix was negligent or treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman