DRN-3505510
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Conister Bank Limited (Conister). A third party has handled Mr Ts complaint on 
behalf of Conister, Ill refer to them as M. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
At the end of December 2018 Mr Ts car broke down and was recovered to his home 
address. Recovery agents noted that they believed a blown water pump seal to be the 
problem. 
In January 2019 the dealership that Mr T acquired the car from recovered it and completed 
repairs. Mr T collected the vehicle in mid-January 2019, and he said the dealership told him 
the coolant warning light may be on, but this should go away in a few weeks. 
Mr Ts car wouldnt start a few days later, and the dealership recovered it again. Mr T said he 
contacted M to reject the vehicle, but they told him there was nothing they could do. 
Mr T got the vehicle back in early March 2019 once repairs were completed to the gearbox 
after around eight weeks. He said the coolant warning light was still on, but his relationship 
with the dealership had broken down, so he didnt contact them about this again. Mr T said 
he contacted the recovery agents that had recovered his car in December 2018, but this 
caused queries about the repair completed to the water pump. Mr T said the dealership told 
him they hadnt replaced the water pump, but the recovery agents said a new water pump 
had been ordered, fitted and the cost covered by his warranty. 
In May 2020 Mr Ts car broke down and he took it to a third-party garage for review, who Ill 
call P. In June 2020 P completed repairs to a failed water housing, and Mr T contacted M to 
complain, saying the fault was linked to the repairs completed in December 2018 and he 
wanted to reject the car. 
M arranged for an inspection of the vehicle in September 2020. They sent Mr T their final 
response to his complaint in October 2020. They said considering the report and the 
comments from P, they couldnt safely conclude that the fault was linked to the previous 
repairs. They said as Mr T had driven the car for around 5,000 miles and it had been around 
18 months since he acquired it, the fault didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied. They said Mr Ts car had now travelled around 100,000 miles so it 
would be reasonable for it to have some issues. They didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, but 
they agreed to review any further evidence he wanted to supply if the car was stripped down 
and investigated further. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave his opinion that the failed water pump and gearbox in early 2019 made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. He said Mr T shouldve been given information by M about his 
rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when he contacted them in February 2019, 
rather than being directed back to the dealership, and, if this had happened, he thought Mr T 
wouldve exercised his final right to reject the vehicle at that time, so he should be able to do 
so now. 
Our investigator said it would be fair for Mr T to pay for the use hed had of the vehicle 
between March 2019 and May 2020, but Conister should collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr 
T, end the agreement with nothing further to pay, refund Mr Ts deposit plus 8% simple 
interest, refund 30% of Mr Ts payments whilst the gearbox repair was completed, as he was 
given a courtesy car below the specification of his car, remove all negative information from 
Mr Ts credit file and pay Mr T £250 compensation. 
Our investigator also considered the fault that occurred in May 2020. He said that the report 
that M arranged was conducted under limited circumstances, and he thought it wouldve 
been fair for them to arrange another inspection rather than rely on its findings. He said there 
is no conclusive evidence that the fault is linked to the previous repair, but the findings from 
P are persuasive in that they could be linked. 
M didnt agree. They said they didnt receive a request from Mr T to reject the vehicle within 
the first 30 days of the agreement, and they only knew about the problems with the water 
pump and gearbox when Mr T had accepted repairs, so they didnt think he wouldve been 
able to reject the car in early 2019. 
M said theres no evidence the coolant warning light on Mr Ts car remained on, and he 
didnt raise any concerns with them about the car until May 2020, even though he spoke to 
them about a separate matter in March 2020. 
M said Mr T travelled around 5,000 miles in the car after the initial repairs, and if theyd failed 
it wouldve been apparent much sooner than this. They also said that the report provided by 
P is based on suspicions rather than a clear link between the faults. M said Mr Ts car 
passed an MOT in December 2019, and if itd had problems with the coolant system there 
wouldve been symptoms noted, but none were. 
M said that P had now provided a quote for repairs to the EGR coolers, and they had 
previously said if the EGR coolers were the cause of the fault, this wouldnt be linked to the 
previous repair. M say this supports their case that the fault isnt linked to the previous 
repairs, and it doesnt make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality. 
Our investigator asked for further information from P, that information, in summary, gave Ps 
opinion that the faults were linked, and the previous repair didnt return the vehicle to a 
satisfactory condition. 
Our investigator gave a further view recommending that M increase the compensation to 
£350 and setting out the comments from P and why he was persuaded by these. His other 
recommendations remained the same. 
M didnt response to our investigator. Mr T said hed like all of the money he paid toward the 
agreement returned due to the distress and inconvenience. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Conister as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £20,000. It was seven years old 
and had travelled around 95,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used 
car, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new or 
younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is 
reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a serious 
issue sooner, is higher. 
Mr T first experienced a fault when his car broke down shortly after he acquired it, at the end 
of December 2018. The car was repaired by the dealership, with the water pump being 
considered at fault and this was replaced. 
Mr T has said he doesnt believe the water pump was replaced as the dealership told him 
the repair consisted of replacing a pipe. Ive seen evidence of the replacement part being 
ordered, and one of the technicians to have inspected Mr Ts car at a later date commented 
that there was evidence of the water pump being replaced in the recent past. Based on the 
evidence available, Im persuaded that the water pump was replaced by the dealership 
during the first repair. 
Mr T collected the vehicle in mid-January 2019, and the first time he tried to use it, it wouldnt 
start. The dealership recovered the vehicle to investigate a problem with the gearbox. Mr T 
says he told M at this point that he wanted to reject it. Theres no record of this phone call 
between M and Mr T. 
The dealership ordered parts to repair the gearbox, and Mr T spoke to M to say he wasnt 
happy with the timescale, as it could take a number of weeks for the parts to be available. M 
told Mr T during one of these calls that there wasnt anything they could do as the finance 
company, and it would be up to the dealership to complete repairs. 
Our investigator said these faults made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality and, as M had a 
chance to return the vehicle to satisfactory condition following the first repair, they shouldve 
given Mr T accurate information about his rights prior to or during the repair of the gearbox. 
He felt if theyd done this, Mr T wouldve likely exercised his right to reject the car.  
M say Mr T had already accepted the repairs before he contacted them, and so he no longer 
had a right to reject the vehicle. Its not in dispute that the issues with the water pump and the gearbox made the vehicle of 
unsatisfactory quality. M upheld Mr Ts complaint about this in March 2019, and so I havent 
considered this further. 
When Mr T made contact with M in February 2019 the repairs to the gearbox were ongoing. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr T and M, and M told him that there wasnt really anything 
they could do about the car, because they just provided the finance. They said it was up to 
the dealership to fix the car and theyd call them to chase this up. 
Mr T had already allowed the dealership an opportunity to repair the car, and whilst the 
repair to the gearbox was ongoing, the parts were on order and there was no indication of 
when the repair might be completed. 
The CRA sets out that M has an opportunity to return the goods to a satisfactory condition. 
They took this opportunity when the water pump work was completed. So, when Mr T 
experienced the fault with the gearbox, he was, at that stage, entitled to exercise his final 
right to reject the vehicle as it hadnt been returned to a satisfactory condition following a 
repair. 
Mr T agreed to the repair of the gearbox, and the CRA sets out that where a repair has been 
agreed, the right to reject would only apply if this repair cannot be done in a reasonable time 
and without significant inconvenience to Mr T. 
Im satisfied that when Mr T contacted M in February 2019 they shouldve been clearer in the 
information they gave Mr T, particularly in relation to their responsibility for the satisfactory 
quality of the vehicle, and his rights under the CRA. 
As the repair had been accepted, Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve been able to reject 
the vehicle, unless that repair couldnt be done in a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience. Its impossible to say how the situation wouldve progressed had Mr T been 
provided with the correct information by M. The repair was completed around four weeks 
after the phone call in February 2019. Its possible that Mr T wouldve waited for this repair to 
take place. Its also possible that M could have accepted that this was an unreasonable time, 
or causing significant inconvenience, and accepted rejection of the vehicle. 
As I cant say with certainty what would have happened in early 2019, and the repair was 
completed with Mr T continuing to use the vehicle, Ive gone on to consider the events 
beginning with the fault that happened in May 2020. 
M have said theres no evidence that the faults are linked, and Mr T was able to drive the car 
for around 5,000 miles and 15 months prior to the fault, so they dont think it made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. Our investigator said he was persuaded by the evidence provided by 
P that the faults were linked, and so Mr T was able to reject the car on the basis that the 
repairs in early 2019 had failed. 
Ive seen evidence of the inspection carried out by agents appointed by M. That inspection is 
severely limited, in that the engineer was unable to access the drivers side of the vehicle or 
see many of the engine components. They commented that there was no suggestion that 
the vehicle had suffered from a failed water pump repair, but the inspection was ultimately 
aborted. 
Ive seen evidence of commentary provided by P, Mr Ts garage, and this says that the 
vehicle components showed signs of a long-standing leak in the coolant system, and the 
repairs they completed prior to the inspection by Ms agents were why they couldnt 
immediately see any evidence of this leak. They say the issues are likely linked to the previous repairs either having failed or the fault being misdiagnosed at the outset. P say the 
fault occurring in May 2020 to the EGR coolers or the head gasket can be linked to the 
previous repair. 
Its not clear exactly what caused the fault to Mr Ts car in May 2020. But Im persuaded by 
the evidence provided by P. They are the only experts that have inspected the car in detail in 
respect of the current fault
Mr T has driven the car for around 4,000 miles for 15 months between the repair and the 
fault. This is lower than average mileage and may account for the current fault taking some 
time to materialise. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the repairs in early 2019 failed. I say that 
because P have shown that there was a substantial leak on the system showing signs of 
age, that the current faults can be linked back to the previous repair, and that Mr Ts use of 
the vehicle is likely to have slowed down the materialisation of the failed repair. So,  Im 
satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr T, and 
that the repairs in early 2019 didnt return it to a satisfactory condition. So, Mr T should now 
be allowed his final right to reject the car. 
This means that the car is collected, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and Mr T 
has his £2,500 deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement and any adverse information 
should be removed from Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T has said hed like all of is payments refunded as the car broke down shortly after he got 
it, and hes had to deal with the impact since. Mr T was kept mobile in a courtesy car during 
the early repairs and continued to use the car until the fault materialised in May 2020. I think 
its fair that Mr T pay for this use of the vehicle, and I think the monthly payments he made 
during this time reflect a fair payment for this use. So, Im not asking Conister to refund all of 
the payments. 
Mr T was provided with a courtesy car during the repairs in early 2019 for a period of around 
eight weeks. Whilst he was kept mobile, the car he was provided with was not like for like 
with the one hed acquired under the agreement. So, I think its fair that Conister refund Mr T 
30% of his monthly payments for this eight-week period in February and March 2019 to 
reflect this. Mr T paid £401.21 as his monthly payment, so Conister should refund a total of 
£240.73, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr T said he didnt make any payments following being unable to use the car in May 2020, 
and so Conister should waive any arrears under the agreement from May 2020 when Mr T 
was unable to use the car. 
Our investigator recommended that Conister pay Mr T £350 compensation. Mr T has been 
put to distress and inconvenience in not receiving accurate information about the CRA when 
contacting M, having to allow repairs to the vehicle, arrange for inspections and the affect 
this has had on his credit file. Overall, Im satisfied that £350 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Conister Bank Limited must: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr T, waiving any 
outstanding arrears. 
Refund Mr Ts deposit of £2,500 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. Refund Mr T £240.73 which is 30% of his monthly payments for February and March 
2019 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr T £350 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file once the 
outstanding payments have been settled. 
If Conister considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman