DRN-2384437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly refused to extend their mortgage term 
and provided poor service.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage with HSBC which was due 
to end when Mr M was 65 years old.
Unfortunately, they got into financial difficulties in late 2006. HSBC agreed then they could 
move the mortgage to interest only for a time until they got back on their feet and could 
change back to repayment later.
In 2012 Mr and Mrs M applied to extend the term of the mortgage on an interest only basis. 
HSBC agreed to extend the term to 2019 when Mr M would be 70 years old. Mr and Mrs M 
were unhappy HSBC wouldnt extend the term any further when they asked in 2019 and they 
felt the service theyd received from HSBC was poor.
Mr and Mrs M complained to HSBC and then to this service when HSBC didnt uphold their 
complaint. Our investigator agreed there had been some poor service from HSBC, and 
recommended HSBC pay them £100 for the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered as a 
result. HSBC agreed to this, but Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. So, Ive 
reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have helpfully provided detailed information about this complaint. Even though I 
may not mention here everything theyve said, Id like to reassure them Ive taken it all into 
account in reaching my decision. For reasons Ill explain, I agree with our investigators 
opinion for broadly the same reasons.
I know Mr and Mrs M think something went wrong in 2006 but Im not able to consider that 
as its too long ago and outside this services jurisdiction as the parties know. So, Ive looked 
at what happened from 2012 onwards. 
The starting point in considering whether Mr and Mrs M have been treated fairly and 
reasonably by HSBC is that they had an obligation to pay back what theyd borrowed from 
HSBC when their original mortgage term came to an end. 
Id expect a lender to consider reasonably a request from a borrower to extend the term and 
to agree to that in some circumstances, for example, to give the borrower more time to raise 
funds to pay back the borrowing. But, generally, I wouldnt expect a lender to agree to 
ongoing extensions of the mortgage term. 
At first HSBC was unwilling to agree to extending the mortgage term when Mr and Mrs M 
asked for one in 2012, before the initial term of the mortgage had come to an end. But HSBC 
reviewed its decision and agreed to extend the term until Mr M was 70 years old, as an 
exception to its usual policy of not lending beyond the age of 65. 
In coming to its decision, HSBC took into account that Mr M was still working and planned to 
continue, that he owned a share of his elderly mothers property and would inherit from her 
estate, and that he and Mrs M had savings which could be used to pay off the mortgage at 
the end of the extended term. 
Mr and Mrs Ms recollection is that the extension was discussed during a meeting at their 
home. They say the HSBC representative assured them getting another extension, at the 
end of the extended term, would be a formality. They say the representative acknowledged 
something had gone wrong in 2006 and the assurance was given bearing that in mind. 
HSBCs records dont show the representative gave that assurance. Since the evidence is 
conflicting, I have to consider what I think it more likely than not to have happened. 
As Ive mentioned, Id expect a lender to give reasonable consideration to a request for a 
term extension. But I think it is reasonable for a lender to consider any such request in light 
of its policies and all the circumstances existing at the time the request is made. 
I say this because there are several factors a lender would fairly take into account in coming 
to a decision about extending a mortgage term. Those factors include extensions the 
lenders already given, whether the borrower has funds available to pay off the mortgage as 
required under the terms of the mortgage and the affordability and risks for both parties of 
lending further into retirement.  These things can only sensibly be considered at the time an 
application is made, not several years beforehand, because circumstances change over 
time.
So, on balance, I dont think it likely that the representative gave an assurance Mr and Mrs M 
would definitely get an extension in 2019. I think its more likely than not the representative 
would have explained that any request would be considered at the time it was made.
Mr and Mrs M say they asked if they could move back to repayment terms in 2012 but were 
told theyd have to make up the payments theyd missed before they could do that. I havent 
seen any records confirming this. HSBCs records show Mr and Mrs M were asking about 
extending the mortgage on an interest only basis and that they were asked if theyd like 
advice, but they declined that offer. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr and Mrs M took 
the decision, without any advice from HSBC, to go ahead with an application to extend the 
mortgage on an interest only basis.
I understand Mr Ms mother sadly passed away in 2013 and that Mr M used part of his 
inheritance to reduce the mortgage to around £60,000. 
When Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC in January 2019, HSBC told them they wouldnt 
extend the term again on an interest only basis and HSBC didnt offer lifetime mortgages. 
But HSBC was prepared to offer Mr and Mrs M a repayment mortgage over a term of seven 
years. Mr and Mrs M had both retired by 2019. And although Mr M was working part-time, 
they felt the repayment mortgage would be unaffordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs M told HSBC theyd paid off what they could of the mortgage but no longer had 
sufficient funds to pay off the balance due to unexpected circumstances. Mrs Ms explained 
the amount of Mr Ms inheritance was less than theyd expected due to unexpected care 
home costs for his mother and legacies Mr Ms mother had made to other people theyd been unaware of. And Mr and Mrs M had chosen to use some of their money to pay off 
some other debts theyd incurred.
Mr and Mrs M say that since HSBC wouldnt agree to extend the term further, they were 
forced to take an equity release mortgage with another lender. 
I cant hold HSBC responsible for the fact that the money Mr and Mrs M thought theyd have 
to pay off the mortgage in 2019 wasnt as much as theyd hoped. The reasons Mrs M has 
given are outside HSBCs control. And HSBC was entitled to expect Mr and Mrs M to pay 
money towards the mortgage as a priority over other debts Mr and Mrs M owed.
I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC not to agree to extend the term of the mortgage 
further. It agreed to the initial extension as an exception and on the basis Mr and Mrs M 
would be able to pay off the mortgage at the end of the extension based on the financial 
information theyd provided in 2012. And HSBC looked at giving Mr and Mrs M a repayment 
option to extend their time for repaying the mortgage, although they felt they couldnt afford 
that, which I think was reasonable.
I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Ms only option was to take an equity release mortgage with 
another lender. Theyve acknowledged there was sufficient value in their property for them to 
sell, pay back the HSBC mortgage and downsize.  I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M would have 
preferred to downsize at a time that suited them. But they were obliged to pay back the 
HSBC mortgage as the term and the agreed extension had come to an end. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained I dont think HSBC behaved unreasonably.
I turn next to the concerns Mr and Mrs M raised about the service HSBC provided.
HSBC reminded Mr and Mrs M in 2018 their mortgage was due to expire in 2019. Mr M was 
due to turn 70 in November that year. HSBC had to let Mr and Mrs M know the term was 
ending in line with its regulatory obligations. So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs M felt they 
were being chased for payment, I think HSBC behaved reasonably here. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC in November 2018 about the mortgage term 
coming to an end and were told to go back to HSBC in January the following year as it was 
too early for HSBC to discuss any options with them then. I can understand that will have 
been disappointing for Mr and Mrs M as they were being proactive in wanting to sort things 
out for the future. And I think HSBC could have been more helpful in discussing things with 
them at that stage.
But I dont think this impacted Mr and Mrs H significantly. I appreciate before then Mr and 
Mrs M thought theyd get the extension they were asking for as a formality. But, as Ive 
explained, I dont think, on balance, HSBC is likely to have given them the assurance they 
thought it had. They knew in January 2019 that HSBC wouldnt agree to a further term 
extension and they had several months to make arrangements to pay off the mortgage 
before the extended term came to an end in November that year.  
From the available telephone records, I note Mr M had some difficulty in speaking to the right 
person at HSBC about his mortgage account on at least one occasion and I think that could 
have been handled better. I can see this would have been irritating for Mr M. 
Taking everything into consideration, I agree with our investigator that £100 is the right 
amount to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the inconvenience HSBC caused them. Putting things right
To put things right I think HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience for the reasons Ive explained. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part and I direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay them £100 compensation within 28 days of Mr and Mrs M accepting this 
decision if they choose to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman