DRN-4072114
The complaint
Ms S, who is a sole trader, is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to 
process several applications for a business current account (BCA) that was needed to 
allow her to apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) for her business.  
What happened
Ms S wanted to apply to RBS for a BBL for her sole trader business. But, as per RBSs 
requirements, she needed to apply for a BCA first. Ms S made several BCA applications to 
RBS, but these werent processed correctly by them. Ms S wasnt happy about this, 
especially as the BBL scheme ended before she was able to obtain a BCA which meant she 
felt that RBS had prevented her from applying for a BBL for her business because they 
hadnt processed her BCA applications correctly. So, she raised a complaint.
RBS responded to Ms S and explained they didnt feel theyd made any error in how theyd 
processed her BCA applications. Ms S wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so she referred 
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that RBS had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation surrounding Ms Ss BCA applications. Ms S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that RBS have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Ms S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding her 
complaint. Id like to thank Ms S for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Ms S notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Ms S and RBS. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Under the BBL scheme, lenders such as RBS were entitled to require prospective applicants 
to hold a business relationship with RBS before applications for a BBL from that applicant 
would be accepted. Ms S didnt hold a business relationship with RBS when she wanted to 
apply for a BBL for her business. And it was for this reason that RBS required Ms S to apply 
for a BCA with them  which would establish a business relationship between RBS and Ms S 
 before they were willing to accept a BBL application from her.
This doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable to me. One reason I say this is because BBL 
applications werent subject to the same level of checks or scrutiny that other business loan 
applications were subject to. As such, I can understand why businesses such as RBS would 
only be willing to accept BBL applications from applicants with which they already had a 
business relationship  and which therefore had previously been subject to the checks and 
scrutiny required by RBS to establish such a business relationship  and conversely werent 
willing to accept BBL applications from applicants where no business relationship existed.
Ms S made four applications to RBS for a BCA between October 2020 and March 2021. The 
first application was made on 26 October 2020, and that same day RBS sent Ms S a link to 
an online tool so she could upload documents required by RBS in support of her application.
Ms S says that when she first attempted to use the online tool it wasnt working, but that she 
was later able to upload the requested documents via the online tool and did so within the 
required timeframe. Conversely, RBS have no record of any documents being uploaded as 
Ms S maintains and note that the link sent to Ms S expired without use on 9 November 2020. 
Where the testimonies and versions of events put forwards by a complainant and a 
respondent business are in contradiction with another  as is the case in this instance  I 
must decide which of the two versions of events I feel is the most plausible, on balance, and 
in consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance, I find RBSs position to be the more plausible. This is because RBS have 
confirmed there isnt any evidence or record of the online tool not working at that time, and 
because Ms S hasnt been able to provide an email from RBS which confirmed that her 
documents had been uploaded to the online tool successfully  as was provided to by the 
online tool when documents were uploaded to it as part of the banks standard automated 
process. 
This isnt to say that Ms S didnt attempt to upload documents to the online tool during this 
time. But it is to say that I dont feel it can be reasonably said that any difficulties which Ms S 
may have encountered were a consequence of some action or inaction of RBS  given that 
the online tool appears to have worked for RBSs other customers  and that I feel it may 
have been the case that any difficulties Ms S may have experienced could have been the 
result of an error or malfunction at some part in the process which RBS had no control over. 
I also note that RBS emailed Ms S on 28 October and 27 November 2020 to request 
additional documents from her, having reviewed the information shed provided within her 
application. And RBS confirm that they didnt receive these further documents either  which 
contributed to this first BCA application being later cancelled by RBS as being uncompleted. 
And, in consideration of all the above, this doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable to me. 
Notably, on the same day that RBS sent the second of the two emails to Ms S described 
above  27 November 2020  Ms S made a new BCA application to RBS. But this second 
BCA application wasnt fully completed by Ms S, and after 30 days the partially completed 
application expired before it reached a stage where it would begin to be considered by RBS.Ms S has said she feels RBS should have notified her that her applications were expiring 
and wouldnt be processed. But I dont feel that it was incumbent on RBS to have provided 
such notifications, and I note that each BCA application included a disclaimer, provided by 
RBS, which explained that each application was valid for 30 days and that if an application 
expired the applicant would need to begin the application process again. I think that was 
sufficient, and I feel there was a responsibility on Ms S, as the applicant, to have been aware 
of the status of her applications.
On 24 February 2021, several months after the second application, Ms S began a third BCA 
application. But this third application also wasnt fully completed by Ms S, and so it also 
expired after 30 days for the same reason as the second application.
Finally, Ms S began a fourth BCA application on 4 March 2021 (which is only eight days after 
she began the third BCA application). In this instance, RBS did receive documents in 
support of the application uploaded by Ms S via the online tool. However, RBS have 
explained that Ms Ss address on these documents was different than the address that they 
held for her at that time. 
Ms S disagrees that this was the case. Unfortunately, given that RBS rejected this fourth 
application, RBS no longer hold the documents that were uploaded by Ms S which would 
confirm the matter. This seems reasonable to me, because a bank wouldnt generally be 
expected to hold personal information or documents supplied by an applicant after that 
application had been rejected.
However, even if it were the case that RBS had made an error regarding the address on the 
documents provided by Ms S, there were other reasons that contributed to their rejecting the 
fourth BCA application made by her. These included that RBS didnt receive satisfactory 
proof of the annual turnover and trading of Ms Ss business. As such, I dont feel that any 
error that RBS may have made in regard to Ms Ss address could have adversely impacted 
this application  because the application would have been rejected for the lack of business 
turnover and trading information regardless.
Ms S feels that she did provide the business turnover and trading information required by 
RBS, and I note an email sent to RBS by Ms S on 20 April 2021 which included a letter 
confirming the commission shed earned from her self-employment in the relevant tax year. 
But it seems that this letter wasnt deemed sufficient by RBS, who usually require bank 
statements as confirmation of business turnover and trading. And I note a later email from 
RBS to Ms S sent on 4 May 2021 which explained that RBS hadnt received additional 
information that they had previously requested. 
As alluded to previously, matters are complicated here by the fact that RBS no longer retain 
many of the documents or information relating to the applications  which as explained 
earlier, I dont feel is unreasonable. But from the information and evidence that is available to 
me, I dont feel that it can fairly be said that RBS have done anything wrong in how they 
managed the BCA applications made by Ms S.
Finally, in their response to Ms Ss complaint, RBS acknowledged that theyd provided a link 
to Ms S to enable her to make a complaint about these matters which hadnt worked. RBS 
apologised to Ms S for this and made a payment of £150 to her as compensation for any 
trouble or upset she may have incurred as a result.
It isnt within my remit to comment on this aspect of Ms Ss complaint  how RBS handled 
her complaint  or RBSs response to it. This is because this service is only able to consider 
complaints about specified financial activities, of which complaint handling  even a 
complaint about a financial activity such as a BCA application  isnt one. In short, this service cant consider a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint. This is as 
per the remit of this service as given in the Dispute Resolution section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook.
It follows from all Ive explained here that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
RBS to take any further action. Ultimately, this is because I dont feel that RBS can 
reasonably be considered to have unfairly denied Ms Ss business access to the BBL 
scheme or managed Ms Ss applications unfairly. Instead, I feel it was incumbent on Ms S to 
have met the application requirements of RBS  which from the information and evidence 
available to me  Im not satisfied was most likely the case.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms S was wanting here, but I hope she S will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman