DRN-1209304
 
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the service she received in a National Westminster Bank PLC 
(Natwest) branch. 
What happened
Mrs D visited her local Natwest branch on 4 May 2019 to withdraw £800 in cash. She was 
unhappy with the service she received as she had to wait almost an hour to be served, at 
which point the Natwest cashier told her there was no money in the till to give her. Mrs D 
was passed over to another Natwest employee who began to laugh and said she could not 
believe there was no money. 
Mrs D complained about the service she received and the way she had been treated. She 
said she felt humiliated and that her time had been wasted. Mrs D also says she has been 
financially disadvantaged as she had to pay for car parking. 
Natwest apologised for the poor service Mrs D received and offered vouchers in the sum of 
£40 to recognise the trouble and upset caused. However, Mrs D did not accept this 
resolution and said she wanted £100, which Natwest declined to offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She acknowledged that the service had 
caused trouble and upset, but considered Nawests offer of £40 in vouchers to be fair 
compensation. Mrs D disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it, as I also consider Natwests offer of compensation to be fair. 
Mrs D does not feel that the compensation of £40 in vouchers is commensurate to the 
experience she has had with Natwest and submits that she should receive further 
compensation. She says that Natwest should also refund her parking charges for the time 
she spent in branch. 
In terms of the parking charges, banks can sometimes be busy (particularly on a Saturday) 
and this has to be expected from time to time. It was also Mrs Ds choice to drive her car to 
the bank and park it in a chargeable car park. I cannot see that any guarantees were 
provided about how long it would take Mrs D to be served in branch, so it was for her to 
make appropriate allowances for any unexpected queues or delays. I also do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct a business to compensate their customers for all of 
lifes unexpected inconveniences, and the time they may have to devote to carrying out 
administrative tasks. So I wont be asking Natwest to refund Mrs Ds parking charges
In terms of compensation, Ive considered the service Mrs D received, and its clear she has 
been left upset and inconvenienced by the way she had been dealt with by Natwest. I understand it would have been frustrating to wait for almost an hour to be told that she could 
not withdraw any money. And I appreciate the experience was not made any better by the 
staff members attitude towards the situation. But I have to consider whether, in the 
circumstances, the £40 compensation offered by Natwest is proportionate to the trouble and 
upset suffered. 
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mrs D, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of Natwest have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I 
cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, and that Mrs D feels she has been 
humiliated. But I dont consider the actions of Natwest to warrant any further compensation 
at a higher level. I can see that they have sought to make things right by apologising to 
Mrs D for the poor service she received, and that they had provided feedback to the branch 
in question. So, for the instance where their service did fall below an acceptable standard, I 
consider Natwest's offer of £40 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman