DRN-2923576
Complaint
Mr R has complained about the overdraft on his HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) bank account. 
Hes said the charges for using the facility made his financial situation worse and he had to 
take further credit out, which in turn caused his debt to spiral out of control. 
  
Background
In April 2020, Mr R complained about HSBCs actions in relation to his overdraft from 
November 2015 onwards. As far as Im aware, during the period concerned Mr Rs overdraft 
limit was increased by the following amounts at the following times:
Date Amount of limit increase New limit
15 December 2015 £300.00 £2,000.00
30 December 2015 £300.00 £2,300.00
8 January 2016 £700.00 £3,000.00
23 January 2016 £200.00 £3,200.00
17 February 2016 £200.00 £3,400.00
11 March 2016 £200.00 £3,600.00
23 March 2016 £400.00 £4,000.00
13 April 2016 £200.00 £4,200.00
13 April 2016 £300.00 £4,500.00
12 May 2016 £200.00 £4,700.00
18 May 2016 £100.00 £4,800.00
23 May 2016 £100.00 £4,900.00
3 June 2016 £50.00 £4,950.00
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong when it investigated Mr Rs complaint. In its 
view the interest and charges on Mr Rs account were applied correctly and in line with its 
policy. 
Mr Rs complaint was subsequently reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that 
HSBC ought reasonably to have realised that Mr R was experiencing financial difficulty by 
February 2016 at the latest. And by this stage not only should HSBC not have agreed to 
increase Mr Rs overdraft limit, it should have taken corrective action as the overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
HSBC disagreed with our investigator. And in summary it said: 
Mr R had sufficient income to finance his overdraft as the credits going through his 
accounts suggested that he had a net monthly income of £1,640.00. Mr Rs essential 
expenditure was also taken into account and by the time of the last increase his 
monthly disposable income calculated at around £550, which was enough for the 
requested £4,900.00 to be deemed affordable.
Although Mr R did have a history of exceeding his overdraft limit in the latter part of 
2015, it didnt see any evidence of missed payments on the other financial products 
shown on his credit file.
While there was some gambling on Mr Rs account this was not at a sufficient level to 
highlight any concerns, so gambling usage wouldnt have factored into any of the 
assessed increases before and after March 2016 and would be in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
requirements.
Mr R didnt use payday lending from the second half of 2015 onwards. And during 
the period of the agreed increases there is no evidence of any payments to payday 
lenders going through Mr Rs accounts.
A significant proportion of Mr Rs spend was non-essential. And if hed limited this 
spend he would have been able to operate comfortably within his agreed overdraft 
limit and significantly reduce charges that were applied according to the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr R never reached out to say that he was struggling.
It sent Mr R a number of letters asking him to make credits to his account. Mr R 
being sent further letters demonstrates that he didnt immediately make the required 
credits. But he did eventually increase his credits and the letters stopped. Mr R didnt 
respond to say he was in financial difficulty and corrective action wasnt taken 
because this would have resulted in adverse information being recorded on Mr Rs 
credit file thus impacting his ability to obtain further credit.
The regulatory framework
HSBC provided Mr R with the overdraft limit increases in question after regulation of 
consumer credit activities had transferred from the previous regulator (the Office of Fair 
Trading) to the FCA on 1 April 2014. HSBC was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was 
subject to the FCAs rules in respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant 
sections of CONC here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending; 
CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated 
agreement; and finally CONC 7 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to Arrears, default 
and recovery (including repossessions).  
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. These rules were 
updated in November 2018, but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time the 
lending decisions in question were made. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer 
with credit, including entering into an agreement of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.3G says: 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1) the type of credit; 
(2) the amount of the credit; 
(3) the cost of the credit; 
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit; 
(5) the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; 
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10). 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say: 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
As explained, CONC 6 sets out a firms post-contractual obligations.
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
Although it refers to credit and store cards specifically, CONC 6.7.7 R does offer some 
useful insight on the circumstances where it would be inappropriate to increase the credit 
limit on a revolving credit account. 
CONC 6.7.7 R says:
A firm must not increase, nor offer to increase, the customers credit limit on a credit card or 
store card where:
(2) a customer is at risk of financial difficulties.
CONC 7 provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this time 
making reference to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer 
to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
HSBC was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering information from CRAs, including existing 
financial commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
Section 9 of the Lending Code is concerned with Financial Difficulties. It says:178. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers 
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers to try to help themselves, the 
first step, when a subscriber becomes aware of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer to discuss the matter. This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers. 
179. Personal customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty when income is 
insufficient to cover reasonable living expenses and meet financial commitments as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as: 
loss of employment; 
disability; 
serious illness; 
relationship breakdown; 
death of a partner; 
starting a lower paid job; 
parental/carer leave; 
starting full-time education; and 
imprisonment 
180. Financial difficulties may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events: 
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds; 
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments; 
Discontinuation of regular credits; 
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings; 
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of 
debts; [my emphasis]
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional rate of 
interest; and 
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement. 
[my emphasis] 
The customer informing the subscriber that they are, or at risk of being in 
financial difficulties.
182. If a subscriber becomes aware via their existing systems or from external data feeds 
(e.g. CRAs) or from information provided by the customer that the customer may be at risk of 
being in financial difficulties, the subscriber should contact the customer in order to: 
outline their approach to financial difficulties; 
encourage the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer is worried 
about their position; 
offer the customer appropriate and timely options where possible to help reduce 
the risk of deterioration in the customers financial well- being; and 
provide signposts to sources of free, independent money advice. 
The subscribers contact with a customer identified as being at risk of being in financial 
difficulties should be through the normal channel of communication with the customer 
concerned, such as letter, telephone, email or text. 183. Signs or indicators that a personal customer may be at risk of being in financial 
difficulties may include: 
regular unarranged overdrafts or excesses on agreed overdraft facilities; 
[my emphasis]
high or increasing numbers of unarranged overdraft charges being incurred by 
the customer, particularly where the total charges are high compared to the 
customers monthly income (where known); 
regular returned items or refused authorisations in respect of Point of Sale or 
ATM transactions; 
frequent requests for increased overdraft limits; [my emphasis]
hardcore borrowing* or increasing dependence on unauthorised overdrafts 
developing; [my emphasis]
change in account behaviour such as significantly reduced credit turnover; 
missed or overdue payments in respect of products held by the customer; and 
deteriorating trend in third party data e.g. CRA data. 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive, nor are the above necessarily indicators that a 
customer may be at risk of being in financial difficulties. Subscribers should consider what 
other information they have available that might indicate that a customer is or is not at risk of 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
* Hardcore borrowing is defined in the glossary of the code. It is defined as: 
Hardcore borrowing refers to the position where a customers current account overdraft 
remains persistently overdrawn for more than a month without returning to credit during that 
period.
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
Information HSBC itself provided
On 14 June 2016 HSBC sent Mr R a letter entitled Important information about your 
overdraft. Amongst other things this letter said:
The terms and conditions that apply to your overdraft state you should make regular 
payments into your account when its overdrawn.
As a responsible lender we regularly review overdraft limits to ensure theyre appropriate for 
customers, according to their circumstances. As part of this process, we monitor payments you make into your account each month. When the credits to your account have been low in 
relation to your overdrawn balance, well recommend an amount wed like you to pay into 
your account each month.
Your account was £4,802.86 overdrawn on 14 June 2016
We recommend that you pay a minimum of £1,930.00 into your account within the 
next month.  
On 29 January 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr R about his overdraft usage. Amongst other things 
this letter said:
Many of us find an overdraft a convenient and easy way to access a little extra money 
if needed 
An arranged overdraft can help you avoid fees from returned payments for bills that happen 
when your account doesnt have enough money in it. You may also find it useful if you need 
money over a short time period or for an unexpected event. To help you keep control of your 
borrowing costs, we recommend that its not used regularly.
Further on, the letter goes on to say:
Our Overdraft Service is a short-term way to borrow money on your current account. Its not 
designed for long term borrowing and could be more expensive than other lending options.
HSBCs Personal Banking Terms and Conditions, in December 2015, also said: 
   
Overdrafts are a short-term way to borrow money on your account. Overdrafts are subject 
to status. You must not borrow on savings accounts.
These Terms and Conditions also said: 
When you have to repay your overdraft
Overdrafts are a short-term way to borrow money. You must make regular payments
into your account and tell us straightaway if youre not able to do this.
We can, at any time, end your overdraft. If we do this, well send you a demand in
writing asking you to repay the overdrawn balance on your account immediately.
We can also ask you to repay part of your overdrawn balance at any time. If we end
or reduce your overdraft this will usually be because there has been a change in your 
personal circumstances.
Finally, it is my understanding that HSBCs overdraft agreements around the time the limit 
increases in question took place on Mr Rs included the following wording:
Your overdraft will be provided until we tell you otherwise. Well review your facility 
annually [my emphasis] and contact you if we make any changes to your overdraft  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. I think 
there are three overarching questions, which I need to consider in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. These questions are:    
Did HSBC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision in question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft 
limit)?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each limit increase, was there a 
point where HSBC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Rs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did HSBC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R would be 
able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending decision in 
question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft limit)?
The rules and regulations during the period in question required HSBC to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr R could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so HSBC had to think about whether repaying 
the overdraft sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr R. In 
practice this meant that HSBC had to ensure that repaying the overdraft wouldnt cause     
Mr R undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for HSBC 
to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact 
of any repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether HSBC did what it needed to each time it increased 
his overdraft limit. 
HSBC says that Mr R passed its affordability checks which were based on his income (and 
credits going into his account), information about his existing credit commitments obtained 
from a credit reference agency and an assessment of his essential spend. Each time there 
was enough disposable income left over for the proposed limit to be deemed affordable and 
as the credit checks didnt suggest Mr R had missed or late payments on his other credit, the 
limit increases in question were agreed. 
Mr Rs overdraft was an open-end (running account) agreement (in other words, while HSBC 
committed to reviewing the facility each year there was no fixed end date) where there was 
an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time. CONC didnt set out what a reasonable period of time was. So I think its 
important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
HSBCs response to our investigator suggests that it used Mr Rs account data for some 
parts of its assessment and relied on estimates and third-party data for others. Having 
considered this, it seems to me that HSBC treated each of Mr Rs applications in isolation 
with little regard to what had happened previously or how his circumstances were evolving. 
In my view, this approach failed to take into account Mr R was a repeat borrower and assess 
the plausibility of the monthly disposable income amount arrived at against what was 
happening on Mr Rs account. Im concerned that some of the estimates used were 
contradicted by what was showing on Mr Rs statements. For example, Mr Rs 
accommodation costs were estimated to be £155 month because he said that he was living 
at home with parents. However, his statements clearly show a standing order of £400 a 
month going towards rent. 
Equally Mr Rs monthly credit commitments were estimated at £440 but his statements show 
significantly in excess of this going out of his account each month for this. And while HSBC 
hasnt provided the details of the credit searches it carried out and it has sought to downplay 
Mr Rs use of payday loans, Mr Rs credit file shows that hed taken out a payday loan 
almost every month in the first half of 2015. Indeed, it looks like the reason why Mr R 
stopped taking payday loans in the three months prior to December 2015 was because he 
instead took out a larger loan with a high-cost lender instead.
Im also mindful that HSBC appears to have ignored Mr R exceeding his overdraft limit, on 
more than one occasion, in favour of him not having missed payments on his other 
commitments. This is despite the fact that Mr R was only meeting his other commitments 
because he was using his overdraft (and exceeding his limit) in order to make these 
payments. 
Indeed, at this time, CONC defined lending as being sustainable when the repayments can 
be made by the borrower without undue difficulties. In particular, this meant that 
the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. In my view, Mr R was only meeting his existing commitments by borrowing further and this in itself was 
enough to suggest his existing debts may have unsustainable and he therefore shouldnt 
have been provided with further credit. 
I think that all of this led to HSBC failing to take into account the whole picture of its overall 
lending history with Mr R, in favour of a narrower focus on the individual applications, which, 
in terms of the later limit increase applications at least presented a more favourable picture 
of a deteriorating position. In any event, the sheer number of inconsistencies in the 
information gathered, Mr Rs relatively recent use of payday lending together with him 
exceeding his existing limit on multiple occasions all called into question whether he really 
had £550 (or a third of his monthly income) available in monthly disposable income. 
As HSBC proceeded with these limit increases with what appeared to be, over-optimistic 
assessments on thirteen occasions (in the period Im considering) even in the face of Mr Rs 
indebtedness to it increasing, Im satisfied that the checks HSBC carried out before 
increasing Mr Rs overdraft limit werent reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown HSBC that it shouldnt have 
increased Mr Rs overdraft limit in the way that it did?      
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mr Rs overdraft limit 
increases were provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide 
whether it is more likely than not that reasonable and proportionate checks would have told 
HSBC it shouldnt have provided the increases. 
As HSBC had access to them, and it says that they played at least a part in it affordability 
assessments, I consider it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Mr Bs bank statements to 
form my view on what proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown HSBC. I 
have therefore done so and set out what I think Mr Rs statements ought reasonably to have 
demonstrated to HSBC.
December 2015 increases
The first two limit increases were for relatively low amounts - £300 on each occasion. I do 
have concerns that Mr R hadnt seen a credit balance in the month before. But even though 
Mr R never reached a credit balance he did get close to doing so. And Im satisfied that the 
amount he owed did reduce at periods during the month. 
So while I have concerns with Mr R not seeing a credit balance, the information I have does 
lead me to think that its more likely than not that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
not have prevented HSBC from providing the limit increases that it did.
January 2016 increases
The first of the January 2016 increases was for more than the combined amount of the 
December increases. Im also concerned that it appears to have been provided when Mr R 
overdrawn all the way up to his existing limit. The same also appears to be the case when 
Mr R applies for an extra £300 later in January. 
I think its fair to say that a pattern of Mr R applying for a limit increase, using all the funds 
and getting close to exceeding his limit before once again applying for further funds was 
beginning to emerge. And Mr R was moving further and further away from seeing a credit 
balance too. For example, Mr Rs best position was just over £200 overdrawn in November 
2015 but in January 2016 his best position was just under £2,200.00 overdrawn. So, in my view, there were some clear warning signs that Mr Rs overdraft might have been 
becoming unsustainable for him. And that he was substituting his reliance on payday loans 
in the previous year, to a reliance on his overdraft. That said given it was just after a period 
of the year where consumers in general do tend to spend more, I dont think HSBC had no 
reasonable basis for believing that this increased overdraft usage might have been short-
term (therefore in keeping with HSBCs own stated purpose of overdrafts) and that Mr R 
could sustainably repay his facility. 
Therefore, while I have concerns about the developing pattern in Mr Rs overdraft usage, Im 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt necessarily have shown Mr R 
couldnt afford to sustainably repay what he was being lent or prevented HSBC from lending 
the additional funds. So I dont think that further checks would have prevented HSBC from 
increasing Mr Rs overdraft limit on either occasion in January 2016.   
However, for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next section of this provisional decision, I 
dont think that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have agreed to any of the further 
overdraft limit increases from February 2016 onwards.   
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each limit increase, was there a point 
where HSBC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Rs indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
credit?
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance makes it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or 
where its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. 
Im also mindful that the same rules and guidance as well as HSBCs own documentation 
suggests that overdraft facilities were only really suitable for (and so only supposed to be 
used for) short-term, occasional or emergency borrowing  I referred to this in the good 
industry practice and other information HSBC provided section of this decision. 
This is a view shared by the FCA in Consultation Paper 18/42 High-Cost Credit Review: 
Overdrafts consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). I acknowledge that this was 
published sometime after the period Im looking at here. But I think that it offers some insight 
on the FCAs perspective on the use of overdrafts. So I do consider it to be of some 
relevance in this case. 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42 states:
Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency borrowing, but some consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period of time. This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
Bearing all of this in mind, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual 
lending decision, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at what unfolded during the 
course of Mr Rs overdraft history with HSBC  especially how it was managed and whether 
HSBC ought to have realised Mr R was building up problem debt. 
Ive already explained why I think that reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
werent completed for any of the limit increases Im looking at. And that based on the 
evidence on file, I cant say that proportionate checks would not have shown that the limit 
increases provided in December 2015 and January 2016 when considered individually were 
unsustainable.I also explained that a more in-depth assessment of Mr Rs account usage showed that he 
was applying for limit increases, using the credit and then applying for further limit increases 
as he was about to reach his new limit. And he was moving further away from returning to a 
credit balance. Equally even though there were four applications in a short space of time, 
these all took place around Christmas. 
So even though I thought that there were some warning signs that HSBC ought to have 
been alert to, I didnt think that Mr Rs overdraft usage had, in itself, become demonstrably 
unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for 
themselves  by the time of the second increase in January 2016.
But looking at what happened after the second limit increase in January 2016 and the period 
leading up to the increase in February 2016, I think that the emerging pattern of Mr R 
struggling to manage his overdraft had now become firmly established. I think that the 
account was never really able to recover from this point and in my view, bearing in mind 
what had happened on the account previously, HSBC ought to have seen this was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of its actions in increasing Mr Rs overdraft limit here. 
I say this because Mr R made a further application for an overdraft limit increase just as he 
was once again approaching his limit. This time Mr Rs overdraft limit was increased to more 
than double his monthly salary. As Mr R had moved further and further away from returning 
to a credit balance, after each of the four previous limit increases, I cant see any reasonable 
basis for reaching the conclusion he would have been able to sustainably repay a facility 
which would now take more than two months of his salary (without any deductions) to clear. 
 
The position wasnt much better at the time of the next increases either. Indeed, Mr Rs 
statements appear to indicate that he was already over his existing limit at the time the 
second limit increase in March 2016 took place. The statements suggest the same thing may 
well have happened at the time of the April 2016 increases as well. 
What is truly astonishing about the May 2016 and June 2016 increases is that they all took 
place in the month prior to Mr R being sent a letter telling him that he wasnt crediting his 
account with enough funds. I cant see how HSBC can argue that the credits going into      
Mr Rs account were sufficient to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time at the 
time of these limit increases, when it wrote to Mr R telling him that after monitoring the 
payments going into account he needed to increase the credits being paid in, less than a 
month later. And this was even after HSBC appear to have provided Mr R with a loan for 
£4,000.00 too.
Its also worth noting that HSBC agreed to sixteen overdraft limit increases in the space of 
nine months. And during this time Mr Rs overdraft limit (and to intent and purposes his 
overdrawn balance) increased from £900 to £4,950.00  so more than five times the original 
amount. Mr R also had many instances where hed exceeded his existing limit and HSBC 
clearly agreed to frequent requests for increased overdraft limits during this period when    
Mr R never saw a credit balance and was therefore hardcore borrowing. So HSBC agreed to 
all of these limit increases in circumstances where the Lending Code suggested Mr R may 
have been experiencing financial difficulty.
In reaching my conclusions I have also considered what HSBC has deemed to be Mr Rs 
non-essential spending including any gambling transactions. To be clear, Im not saying that 
it is up to HSBC  or any other bank for that matter - to tell a consumer how they can and 
cant spend their money. But as Mr R was constantly using his overdraft here and was 
developing a reliance on his limit being increased, he wasnt spending his own money. Mr R was spending and gambling funds that HSBC was lending to him. And his ability to 
repay  especially as the later limit increases were being requested after gambling 
transactions had taken place - was becoming more and more dependent on his success as 
a gambler. I dont think that there was or is any reasonable basis for concluding this was a 
sustainable way of Mr R repaying a debt that had, by the final limit increase, reached three 
times his monthly income.
Given all of HSBCs obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account 
the circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, I find that HSBC ought fairly 
and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Rs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided any of the overdraft 
limit increases after it increased Mr Rs credit limit to £3,200.00 in January 2016.
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
Ive already pointed out that as well as ensuring it doesnt lend irresponsibly, a lender is also 
required to monitor a borrowers repayment record and also provide assistance should that 
repayment record suggest the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. It also appears to 
be the case - from the documentation Ive referred to in the good industry practice and other 
information HSBC provided section of this decision  that HSBC committed to reviewing    
Mr Rs overdraft on annual basis. 
As our investigator pointed out in her assessment, HSBC sent Mr R a number of letters 
telling (or at least suggesting to) him that he wasnt paying enough funds into his account to 
sustain his overdraft limit. And that he needed to pay an increased amount into his account 
otherwise it would need to review whether offering (or allowing him to keep seeing as a he 
already had one) a formal overdraft at its current level was appropriate. It looks like the first 
such letter and first such suggestion was sent in June 2016. Mr R didnt make the 
recommended payment and, at least, three further letters with similar warnings but higher 
recommended amounts be credited were sent in the year after the February 2017.
HSBC says that Mr R didnt respond to say he was in financial difficulty and the credits to his 
account must have increased because the letters stopped. But there comes a point where a 
lender cannot continue simply relying on a borrower not getting in touch to say they are in 
financial difficulty. There are many reasons why someone might not get in contact to ask for 
help even though theyre in a situation where theyre struggling, or they may even go further 
and say they can and will make payment when the reality is they cant. And while Mr R didnt 
respond to the letters the available evidence, which HSBC also had at the time, leaves me 
satisfied that he was struggling and that HSBC ought to have realised this.
Its worth noting this in the context of HSBCs response to our investigator saying that any 
limit increases requested after the final one would have been disallowed on the basis of 
affordability concerns. But this is a fallacious and somewhat disingenuous argument as even 
though HSBC didnt provide Mr C with a formal overdraft limit increase, HSBC did 
nonetheless allow Mr R to exceed his overdraft limit  by over £800 on at least one occasion 
- and therefore did lend him more than the amount it thought he could afford to repay. All it 
did was lend him these funds on an informal or unarranged basis and charged him even 
more for lending in this way. Indeed from November 2016 onwards Mr Rs starting balance 
on his monthly account statements was over his agreed limit on thirteen out of seventeen 
months. 
This additional cost of Mr Rs increased dependence on unarranged overdraft borrowing is 
reflected in his annual summary of account charges. Between February 2016 and February 
2017 (when HSBC was regularly increasing Mr Rs overdraft limit) Mr R paid a total of 
£1,091.38 in overdraft fees and interest (£310 in unarranged (or informal) overdraft usage fees and £781.38 in overdraft interest). Mr R looks to have spent 75 days in an unarranged 
overdraft during this period.
But between February 2017 and February 2018 (which included eight months where HSBC 
presumably wouldnt have increased Mr Rs overdraft limit) he paid £1,414.77 in overdraft 
fees and interest (£600 in unarranged (or informal) overdraft usage fees and £817.44 in 
overdraft interest). In this period Mr R spent 155 days, more than twice the time in the 
previous year, in an unarranged overdraft and therefore over the maximum HSBC deemed 
he could afford. 
Its fair to say that Mr R did pay less in the two years after this. But he still never saw a credit 
balance on his account. So Mr R still wasnt using his overdraft as intended  a short-term 
safety net for occasional use. And more importantly Mr Rs credit file during the period 
shows that he once again started taking out payday and other high-cost loans. I dont think 
this was a coincidence, or that the lower amounts paid in 2018 and 2019 mean that Mr R 
was no longer struggling financially. In my view, Mr R was now substituting a reliance on his 
overdraft for a reliance on other forms of unsustainable high-cost borrowing.
Im also concerned with the reason HSBC has provided for not taking corrective action in 
relation to Mr Rs overdraft. HSBCs response to our investigator suggested that it didnt 
proactively assist Mr R or take corrective action without hearing from him because it didnt 
want to impact his credit file. However, this is a false dichotomy as there isnt anything within 
CONC (and specifically COCN 7) which requires a lender to default an account before 
proactively assisting a customer who is struggling financially. 
But, in any event, leaving aside my concern about HSBCs binary and inflexible position 
here, I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
credit facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable simply to avoid defaulting an 
account or reporting negative information with credit reference agencies. This is even where 
the borrower might not want a lender to take this course of action. After all while a default 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the debt which has been defaulted.
In this case, Mr R spent large amounts of time owing more than the maximum amount HSBC 
thought he could afford to repay, he didnt increase the payments going into his account as 
HSBC suggested, or even respond to the letters sent either; and he hadnt seen a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. In these circumstances, it was not only was it clear 
that Mr Rs overdraft facility had become unsustainable for him, it was also clear Mr R wasnt 
adhering to the terms of his overdraft agreement either.           
I think that this meant that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have taken corrective action 
in relation to Mr Rs clearly problematic overdraft debt as far back as February 2016, even if 
this meant defaulting the account or recording negative information on Mr Rs credit file. 
HSBCs failure to do this (and this decision which it says was taken with a view to avoid Mr R 
being unable to borrow elsewhere) meant that Mr R paid high amounts of interest (including 
extra amounts for exceeding his agreed limit) for the privilege of HSBC allowing him to 
continue to hold what, in my view, had clearly become an unsustainable debt. HSBC actions 
in allowing Mr R to continue using his overdraft in this way, while ignoring the evidence 
suggesting he couldnt afford to, worsened Mr Rs problem rather than helped him.
So I find that HSBC also unfairly failed to take corrective action in relation to Mr Rs overdraft 
when it ought to have seen he was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of his problem 
debt. And it follows that I find HSBC did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in 
some other way.  Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
eleven of this decision, I find that:
HSBC didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr R to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay what he owed for any of the overdraft limit 
increases agreed in the period of time Ive looked at;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown    
Mr R was unable to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of 
time when his overdraft limit was increased in December 2015 and January 2016;
HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the overdraft limit increases 
after January 2016 (in other words the ones from February 2016 onwards) were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr R and were unfairly and excessively 
increasing his overall indebtedness; 
HSBC did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way.
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that HSBC unfairly and 
unreasonably provided Mr R with the overdraft limit increases from February 2016 onwards 
and also unfairly failed to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft.
Did Mr R lose out because HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably towards him?
HSBC ought reasonably to have realised that Mr R was in financial difficulty by February 
2016 at the latest and at this point HSBC ought reasonably to have exercised forbearance 
and helped Mr R managed his debt. But instead of doing this HSBC added further overdraft 
interest, fees and charges to his overdrawn balance. 
So I think that Mr R lost out because hes had to pay, and hes still being expected to pay 
interest and charges that shouldnt have been added to his balance in the first place. And Im 
satisfied that this means HSBC needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr R
I want to start by saying that in most cases, where additional credit has been provided when 
it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the lender to refund any additional 
interest and charges paid by the borrower (if they were) plus interest. 
The borrower would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were 
given as well as any interest and charges on the funds that werent unfairly provided with. So 
ordinarily Id expect Mr R to pay back the funds he was lent plus any interest and fees on the 
first £3,200.00 owed. 
That said, Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case and I think that a simple 
refund of the additional interest and charges merely provides a useful starting point here. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances and my findings in this case, I think HSBC needs to do a 
bit more than this and it should therefore do the following. Ive said that HSBC increased Mr Rs credit limit from February 2016 onwards in 
circumstances where it should have seen he was already in financial difficulty and proving 
unable to sustainably repay a lower amount. So at this stage HSBC should not only have 
refused to increase Mr Rs overdraft limit, it ought to have exercised forbearance and due 
consideration on the amount Mr R already owed.
As this is the case, HSBC should remove all the interest, fees and charges added to the 
account after February 2016 to reflect the fact that he was in financial difficulty and it failed to 
offer assistance and exercise forbearance.
All of this means that it I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Rs 
complaint for HSBC to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from February 2016 onwards are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in February 2016; 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance)
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr R. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made then HSBC should remove all 
adverse information from Mr Rs credit file;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman