DRN-2401220
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Best Risk Management & Financial Service Limited caused her 
to be without appropriate insurance when she was made unemployed.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs F was sold an accident, sickness and unemployment (ASU) insurance policy by 
a particular company (which Ill call L). The policy was arranged and administered by Best 
Risk and underwritten by another company. The policy was designed to pay a monthly 
benefit for up to twelve months in the event that Mrs F was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness, or that she was made involuntarily unemployed. The policy renewed in February 
each year.
At the renewal in February 2017, the underwriting of the policy switched to a new insurer and 
a clause was introduced under which no benefit would be paid if the unemployment occurred 
during a probationary period.
In October 2017, Mrs F began working for a new employer. In December 2017, she was 
unfortunately made redundant. She made a claim under her policy. However, the insurer 
declined her claim on the grounds that the redundancy occurred within her six-month 
probationary period.
Meanwhile, in January 2018, Best Risk wrote to Mrs F to explain that it had decided to stop 
offering the particular policy that she currently held. It said that when the policy renewed at 
the end of February 2018 she would instead be switched to a policy with a different insurer. 
On 14 February 2018, some two weeks before the current policy was due to expire, Mrs F 
complained to Best Risk that it hadnt made her aware that the clause relating to 
probationary periods had been introduced in 2017.
In April 2018, Best Risk issued a final response letter in which it denied it was at fault for 
failing to notify Mrs F of the new clause introduced at the time of the February 2017 renewal. 
It said that it had provided details at the time to L which it said was acting as Mrs Fs broker.
Later in April 2018, Mrs F gained new employment.
Mrs F subsequently complained to L and later referred her complaint to us.
In January 2019, while her complaint against L was under investigation by us, Mrs F was 
again made redundant. However, she did not have an active ASU policy at this time and so 
was unable to make a claim. She became re-employed in June 2019. 
In November 2019, I issued a final decision on Mrs Fs complaint against L. I considered that 
L had been at fault for not making Mrs F aware of the introduction of the new clause in 
February 2017. I said it should pay Mrs F the amount she would have received in benefit 
under her policy had her claim not been excluded. However, I confirmed that this was only in 
respect of her unemployment claim which ended when she gained new employment in 
April 2018 and that Mrs F could not reasonably hold L responsible for the fact that she held 
no ASU cover at the time she was again made unemployed in January 2019.
After accepting my final decision on her complaint against L, Mrs F complained to Best Risk. 
She said it had told her it would automatically transfer her to the new policy in February 2018 
unless she requested otherwise. She said she had received no notice of cancellation and 
she hadnt cancelled her direct debit. She therefore considered that it should pay to her the 
benefit she would have received under the new policy for her period of unemployment in 
2019.
L issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. It said that because Mrs F was 
not in employment at the time, she was not eligible to transfer to the alternative policy. It said 
it had written to Mrs F on 1 February 2018 to say that her policy would end either at the point 
of renewal or when her claim (which at that stage was still unresolved) had ended.
Mrs F was unhappy at Ls response. She referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
Best Risk could not reasonably be held responsible for the fact that Mrs F did not hold ASU 
cover when she was made unemployed in January 2019.
Mrs F didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she did not recall receiving the 
correspondence of 1 February 2018. However, she considered this was superseded in any 
case by her complaint letter of 14 February 2018 in which she told Best Risk she was unsure 
of what would happen at renewal given that she was out of work and she would therefore 
leave her direct debit in place and wait to hear its advice on the matter. She said Best Risk 
didnt address this in its final response letter of April 2018 and thus had failed in its duty of 
care towards her.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In January 2018, Best Risk wrote to Mrs F explaining that it was ceasing to offer her current 
policy but that it proposed switching her to an alternative policy. It provided details of the 
alternative policy and said that if it didnt hear otherwise from Mrs F, she would be 
transferred automatically.
However, on 1 February 2018, Best Risk wrote to Mrs F and said that because she was in 
the course of making a claim it could not transfer her to the new policy. Instead, her cover 
would end once her claim had ended. Mrs F says she cant recall receiving this letter but 
Best Risk has provided a copy and Im satisfied it was sent. I consider the letter makes clear 
that Mrs F could not be transferred to the new policy and her cover would end in due course.
Mrs F says that she raised a query about her ongoing cover in her letter of complaint to Best 
Risk of 14 February 2018 and it failed to address this in its final response of April 2018. 
I agree that this was poor by Best Risk. But I consider that it had already made the situation 
clear to Mrs F. And if she was at all unsure over whether she was still covered, I would have 
expected her to contact Best Risk again. I dont consider it was reasonable for her to not 
chase this matter up for a period of approximately eight months and then argue that she was 
unaware of whether she had ASU cover, particularly as she had paid no premiums during that time. I consider Mrs F had ample time to confirm she had no cover through Best Risk 
and then, if she wanted it, to obtain cover from elsewhere.
Mrs F has pointed to what she considers are inconsistencies in Best Risks explanation of 
why her policy was discontinued in 2018. However, I dont consider that this makes a 
material difference to her complaint.
Mrs F has also said that she understands some policies have a clause which allows a 
seamless transfer between insurers for situations such as hers. This may be the case but 
Best Risk has provided evidence to show that the policy to which it had originally intended to 
transfer Mrs F to in February 2018 did not allow this which is why it told her at the time that 
her cover would end following her claim.
Overall, I consider that Best Risk cannot reasonably be held responsible for the fact that 
Mrs F did not hold ASU cover at the time she was made unemployed in January 2019 and it 
therefore does not need to pay her any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman