DRN-3384370
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that MBNA Limited has dealt with his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with MBNA in January 2011 and he made a balance 
transfer of £8,900 to the account that month. He also made balance transfers to the account 
of £3,500 in September 2011 and £3,750 in October 2011. He was making payments to the 
account by direct debit but those payments stopped and his account went into arrears so 
MBNA withdrew his spending facility in June 2012. The balance on the account in July 2013 
was £13,492.70 and Mr S set up a standing order to pay £330 each month. The balance was 
cleared in May 2018 but the standing order continued and, in October 2021, the account had 
a credit balance of £13,629.78.
Mr S asked for the credit balance to be refunded to him in November 2021 but that didnt 
happen because the account that hed asked for the refund to be paid to was different to the 
account from which the standing order had been paid  but that wasnt properly explained to 
Mr S. He made five calls to MBNA about the refund before it was made to him seventeen 
days after his first call. MBNA paid him £30 for the distress and inconvenience that hed 
been caused and reimbursed him for call costs of £14 and it then offered to pay him a further 
£250 of compensation. Mr S didnt accept that offer and complained to MBNA.
It said that it has security measures in place to ensure that funds are being correctly returned 
to customers and it apologised for the service and mis-information that Mr S had received. It 
said that it had offered to pay him £250 by cheque, which hed declined, but he should 
contact it if he wished to reconsider. Mr S then complained to this service and says that 
£3,500 would be fair, reasonable and equitable financial compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that it 
was MBNAs fault that the credit balance grew to the level that it did or that it needed to pay 
interest on the refund. He said that he wouldnt expect MBNA to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint than to pay him the £250 it had offered (which was in addition to 
the £44 it had already paid).
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that MBNA 
has behaved appallingly and has admitted that it was at fault and that it should have 
monitored his account and notified him about the credit balance. He says that it should have 
refunded the credit balance to him without delay and should pay him interest and equitable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
MBNA has provided evidence to show that Mr S chose not to receive paper 
statements when he opened his credit card account in January 2011;
he set up a standing order to make payments of £330 each month to the account in 
July 2013 when the account had a balance of £13,492.70  as it was a standing 
order the payments were being sent to MBNA by Mr S rather than the payments 
being collected from him by MBNA as would have been the case with a direct debit;
he continued to make payments to the account after May 2018 when the outstanding 
balance had been cleared so a credit balance started to accumulate in the account;
MBNA has provided evidence to show that it continued to send text messages to 
Mr S to notify him that his monthly statement was ready to view online until January 
2021 when it received a reply to says that the phone number was incorrect  and that 
it then tried to send an e-mail to him but the e-mail address for him was invalid;
the terms and conditions of the account say: It is important that you check your 
statements (paper or electronic) and any other information we provide with them;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that MBNA was required to 
do more than it did to notify Mr S about the credit balance on his account and I 
consider that he was responsible for monitoring the balance on his account and 
checking his account statements;
Mr S contacted MBNA about a refund of the credit balance of his account in 
November 2021  but the balance wasnt refunded to him because the account that 
hed asked for the refund to be paid to was different to the account from which the 
standing order had been paid  but that wasnt properly explained to Mr S;
he made five calls to MBNA about the refund before he provided account statements 
to confirm his identity and the refund was then made to him, seventeen days after his 
first call;
MBNA apologised for the service and mis-information that Mr S had received and 
paid him £30 for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused and 
reimbursed him for call costs of £14 - and it then offered to pay him a further £250 of 
compensation;
there were clearly some issues with the customer service that Mr S received from 
MBNA in November 2021 which delayed the refund and which caused him to make 
five calls to it (and hes described the time that those calls took)  but the refund was 
made to him within seventeen days of his first call to MBNA about it and it paid £44 to 
him and offered him further compensation of £250;
Mr S says that he should receive interest on the credit balance but the terms and 
conditions of the account says interest isnt paid on credit balances  and Im not 
persuaded that there was any requirement for MBNA to pay interest to Mr S on the 
credit balance of his account;
I consider that the apology from MBNA and its offer to pay him £250 compensation 
(in addition to the £44 that hes already been paid) is a fair and reasonable response 
to his complaint; and
Im not persuaded that theres any basis on which compensation of £3,500 would be 
justified in these circumstances and I find that, other than requiring it to pay to Mr S 
the £250 compensation that its offered to Mr S (if it hasnt already done), it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require MBNA to pay him any other compensation or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that (if it hasnt already done so) MBNA Limited should pay to Mr S the £250 
compensation that it offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman