DRN-3232576
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt renew its 
overdraft, provided poor customer service and wouldnt respond to requests for recordings of 
calls.
What happened
E had an overdraft facility of £20,000. The director who brings the complaint on its behalf 
explains that this was removed in December 2020 and NatWest staff told him it hadnt 
followed its processes. He found it difficult to communicate with NatWest and spent hours on 
the phone. E wasnt given clear reasons why the overdraft wasnt renewed, and it was unfair 
that a loan at a higher rate was instead discussed. The director says that NatWest didnt 
respond to a request for copies of its calls which would have shown the issues.
NatWest said it hadnt made any mistake. The overdraft was due to be renewed and it called 
and wrote to E about this. It didnt get a response and decided not to renew it and 
transferred this borrowing to its Specialist Business Management (SBM) team in December 
2020. It said E didnt provide information to support the overdraft and didnt deal with the 
outstanding balance. NatWest made a formal demand and transferred the borrowing to its 
recoveries area in April 2021 and interest and fees ceased and the account couldnt be 
used. NatWest accepted that the time E had waited before calls were dealt with was poor 
service and it apologised for this and said it would provide this feedback to its teams.
E had made a subject access request (SAR) for its call recordings. NatWest had responded 
on 10 February 2021 to say that as E was a limited company and the calls related to its 
operation these werent personal data and covered. It recommended E contact the Business 
Management team for the calls. NatWest issued a final response letter dated 30 May 2021 
which also said that it couldnt send all the calls but if E could specify the dates and times it 
would consider this request. It said that E hadnt contacted it about this. On 5 August 2021 it 
issued a further final response apologising for contacting E about the borrowing in June 
2021 when it had said that it wouldnt for a month
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that NatWest was 
entitled to review the overdraft facility. And that it had contacted the other director of E by 
email and phone about this. The borrowing was passed to SBM and NatWest didnt receive 
information that it considered supported the overdraft continuing. It could reasonably discuss 
other arrangements with E including a loan to refinance the borrowing at a higher rate. It had 
further tried to contact E but as no agreement had been reached made a formal demand. 
There was no basis to find that NatWest had made a mistake with the overdraft and to ask it 
to reinstate the limit as E wanted.
She said that NatWest had explained its response to the SAR. It had also offered to provide 
specific calls. And she said that she could also help as part of her investigation by asking 
NatWest to provide any specific call if E could provide the time and date. E had said that it 
had recorded some of its discussion with NatWest but unfortunately there were technology 
issues that prevented it sending this. She said we wouldnt be able to consider a new 
complaint point about data concerning the other director allegedly being breached by 
NatWest. And that was something hed need to take up.
In preparing the case for an ombudsman review our investigator further wrote to E on two 
occasions to ask it exactly what it meant when it said that NatWest hadnt followed 
procedures and to clarify things. She stressed that if E didnt explain what it wanted to see 
and why that would make a difference then an ombudsman reviewing the case wouldnt 
know anything more about that either. And that we wouldnt be able to hold things open 
indefinitely. 
E in its responses to the investigator said again that NatWest had told it that it hadnt 
followed its procedures. NatWest had provided inaccurate information to this service. It had 
offered to provide the recordings and hadnt done so, and it was this that had caused the 
delay in E responding and not any action or inaction on the part of E. In the copy of the call it 
had NatWest had agreed to provide call recordings at a point one hour and nine minutes in. 
NatWest had contradicted itself, made it practically impossible to access copies of the 
recordings and passed the matter between departments rather than give one single point of 
contact. E said that things can only be validated with the copies of the recordings and it 
didnt want to make any mistake in its allegations. Specifically, E says that it was told the 
calls would be provided and they werent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the call recordings
Im going to look at this first because its a central concern for E. NatWest has referred to its 
response to the SAR and I dont have a basis to find that this was inappropriate given the 
nature of the information E was asking for. That being the case I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to ask E about any specific calls it was relying on. And from what 
its said to us E clearly has some information itself but in a recording that is too big for it to 
send.
There is a dispute about whether E asked for those specific calls from the SBM team after 
the SAR and whether it was told that team would send them. I appreciate that it was 
frustrating for the director to think that the SAR would deal with this only then to be told that it 
wouldnt. And I accept as most likely that he believed he would be getting the calls for E. If 
he then specified the particular calls he wanted then that request wasnt responded to. But 
even if that had been the case weve tried to help resolve this point and as set out our 
investigator has asked E about this several times.
Ive looked closely at the further responses from the director of E. And I think our investigator 
has made a reasonable attempt to try and deal with the issue around obtaining the calls. 
NatWest has asked for details of the time and date of the calls that E wants. And so, has our 
investigator and without this I dont see a reasonable way forward with the calls. Frankly I 
think E now has had a sufficient opportunity to clarify things and I dont agree based on what 
Ive seen that the reasonable resolution here would be for NatWest to provide every single 
call if these are still available  the original request. And its a matter for us to decide what 
information we think we need to investigate a complaint based on what NatWest and E have 
told us.
the removal of the overdraft facilityThis was by nature an on-demand facility and subject to review. Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that E was contacted about the review and that it didnt respond. And so the account 
moved to the SBM team. E was unhappy about that and wanted to understand why and said 
in its complaint form that it had been told that this was to do with not responding, its turnover 
and unspecified issues with the other director. In the final response NatWest said that 
having reviewed the transactions on your account and account conduct, the Bank has 
decided not to renew your overdraft facility. E hasnt set out any financial information from 
that time that it thinks NatWest didnt take into account. And NatWest has said that E for 
example didnt provide information about projections and turnover to support this borrowing. 
E has referred to there being directors guarantees in place. But I agree with our investigator 
that NatWest was entitled to make a commercial decision about the borrowing.
E reasonably then knew it didnt have a facility and the borrowing needed to be addressed. 
And from what the director says was aware of the basis on which NatWest might consider a 
loan at a higher interest rate. Again, that was a matter for NatWest to decide on when 
applying its lending criteria.
Ive dealt with the call recordings above and clearly after December 2020 E wanted a copy of 
those calls. E thinks it was told that internal processes hadnt been followed. It hasnt 
specified in what way other than it not getting the calls. And based on what Ive seen and 
has been set out above I dont see a basis to find that this would have made a difference to 
whether or not the overdraft was renewed.
I understand that E was waiting for a SAR response and the case notes from NatWest in 
January 2021 Ive seen indicate that it allowed time for that response. Again, E hasnt said 
why this would have made a difference. And it didnt deal with the overdraft in any event. 
Again, Im afraid its not explained and established why it was reasonable for it to wait and 
take no action on the borrowing. I understand that the formal demand wasnt made until 26 
March 2021. And the borrowing transferred to recoveries on 9 April 2021.
customer service
NatWest has apologised for the time it often took for E to get through to members of staff. 
And for contacting E in June 2021 when it said it wouldnt. Its a matter for NatWest to decide 
who deals with which issues and so not to provide the single point of contact E wanted. 
While I accept the issue E had in contacting NatWest at times Im not persuaded that this 
affected the outcome regarding the borrowing. It would also by nature have taken time for E 
to discuss the overdraft and borrowing when it got through especially as it didnt agree with 
the decision. And I make clear here that I am considering a complaint from E a separate 
legal entity and which cant suffer distress. I consider that NatWests apology is sufficient.
my assessment
E asked in its complaint form for three things; for the overdraft to be reinstated; for it to be 
compensated for lost time and stress; and for NatWest to provide call recordings.
In looking at the complaint I have considered the background to those points. I dont have a 
basis to require the overdraft to be reinstated. I dont conclude that NatWest should do 
anything more about the service issues. And Ive dealt with what I think about the calls and 
the efforts that have since been made to resolve this.
I appreciate that the director of E who represents it in this complaint will be very disappointed 
with my findings.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman