DRN-2716512
The complaint
Miss R complains that Lightblue U.K. Limited mis-sold her an income protection policy. 
What happened
Miss R took out an income protection policy in early 2019, and did so through a broker - 
Lightblue. She said she wanted to be covered in the event she was made redundant from 
her part-time job. And Lightblue recommended a policy. 
In June 2020, Miss R was made redundant, and made a claim against her income protection 
policy. The insurer declined the claim, and said this was because Miss R hadnt been 
working the minimum number of hours prior to her redundancy. And the policy was 
subsequently cancelled.
Miss R said shed told Lightblue about her working patterns when she asked for advice on 
suitable policies. So she thought the policy shed taken out had been mis-sold to her. And 
she complained to Lightblue. 
Lightblue said itd reviewed the call recordings between Miss R and its agent. It said there 
had been lengthy conversations about Miss Rs working pattern, as this varied from month to 
month. However, it said it accepted it could have asked more questions, and identified that 
Miss R was not always working the minimum number of weekly hours as required by the 
policy it recommended. 
To put things right, Lightblue said it would refund all of the premiums Miss R had paid for her 
policy. And it also offered an additional £250 which it said was to cover loss of interest and 
the overall inconvenience caused. 
Dissatisfied with Lightblues response, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. She said 
she had expected her policy to provide a monthly benefit for 12 months. And she thought it 
would be fair for Lightblue to cover those payments. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought what Lightblue 
had offered was enough to put things right. 
Lightblue made no comments on the view. However, Miss R disagreed. She said she 
thought Lightblues offer didnt put her back in the position she would have been in were it 
not for its error. She said she could have found insurance elsewhere, or planned her savings 
accordingly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision Ive taken into account the relevant rules and regulations, which 
say Lightblue has a responsibility to ensure the policy was right for Miss R. This is because it 
provided her with advice about the income protection policy. Lightblue has accepted that the 
policy was mis-sold, and I think what its already offered is enough to put things right. I say 
this because: 
As Miss R was working less than 16 hours per week prior to her redundancy, her 
income protection claim was declined by the insurer. For me to say Lightblue should 
cover the equivalent of the monthly benefit payments Miss R would have received, Id 
have to be satisfied that Miss R would have been able to make a valid claim were it 
not for Lightblues error. Or, that she could have taken out a suitable policy 
elsewhere. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Miss R couldnt have made a valid claim under the 
policy, due to her working hours. And Lightblue has said the policy it recommended 
was the only one it had found with a minimum requirement of 16 hours per week. 
Miss R has said she thinks she could have found an alternative policy, but shes 
been unable to provide any evidence of this. And Im unaware of any income 
protection policies which were on offer at the time, with a lower number of minimum 
working hours. So, in these particular circumstances, Im not persuaded Miss R 
would have found a policy meeting her needs elsewhere. And because of this, I think 
it would be unreasonable for me to direct Lightblue to effectively act as the insurer 
and pay the claim. 
Miss R has said if shed known she wouldnt be covered by her income protection 
policy, she could have planned her familys savings accordingly. Whilst I appreciate 
this may have been the case, I think Miss R may be exercising some benefit of 
hindsight here. On balance, had Miss R been able to save the equivalent amount she 
was expecting her policy to pay, I think it would have been less likely that she would 
have sought income protection cover in the first place. 
Lightblue has offered to pay Miss R the equivalent of the premiums she paid over the 
period she held the policy, due to the mis-sale. And thats what I would expect a 
broker to do in these circumstances. 
Lightblue has also offered Miss R £250 in respect of interest on the premiums she 
paid, and in recognition of the overall inconvenience it caused. I think this is a fair 
reflection of the impact of the error on Miss R, and its in line with what I would have 
recommended had Lightblue not already made this offer. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Miss R, I think the offer Lightblue has 
already made is fair. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
If Miss R wishes to accept the offer Lightblue U.K. Limited made, and has not already done 
so, she should contact it directly about this. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman