DRN-4189046
The complaint
Ms A and Mr W complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fully settled a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Ms A and Mr W have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
Unfortunately, Ms A and Mr W suffered the theft of items from a car whilst they were on 
holiday. They made a claim for their stolen items, which included a laptop Mr W used for 
business purposes.
UKI accepted and partly settled Ms A and Mr Ws claim. However, it didnt agree to settle the 
cost of the stolen laptop. Thats because it said that whilst the computer was business 
equipment, it was also a valuable. The policy terms specifically excluded lost or stolen 
valuable items unless they were stored in a locked safety deposit box; a safe or hidden from 
view in a policyholders locked accommodation. As the laptop had been stolen from the car, 
UKI said there was no cover for its loss under the contract terms.
Ms A and Mr W were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that the policy set out different definitions for business equipment and 
valuable items. Therefore, they didnt think the valuables exclusion applied to their claim. 
Ultimately, our investigator didnt recommend that Ms A and Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. He noted that a laptop fell within the definition of a valuable item, as well as the 
definition of business equipment. And he felt that the valuables exclusion applied to claims 
for business equipment which were also valuable items. As such, given the laptop had been 
stored in the car, he concluded it had been fair for UKI to turn down this part of Ms A and Mr 
Ws claim.
Ms A and Mr W disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. They 
said theyd shown that Mr W owned the laptop and that it was business equipment. They 
considered that they had clearly met the business cover terms. They didnt think it was fair 
for UKI to rely on the valuables exclusion to turn down a business item claim. They also 
requested for interest to be added to any potential award.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Ms A and Mr W, I think it was fair for UKI 
to turn down their claim for the laptop and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether UKI treated Ms 
A and Mr W fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Ms A and Mr 
Ws contract with UKI. Part of their claim was for a laptop which was used for business 
purposes. Page 35 of the policy sets out the Business Cover UKI provides. I understand 
that UKI assessed the laptop claim under this section of the policy and I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for it to do so.
The policy provides cover of up to £1500 for lost, stolen or damaged business equipment. 
UKI has defined business equipment as:
Electrical equipment including computers, business books, stationery and office equipment 
that you use for business purposes and is owned by you and is your legal responsibility.
In this case, its clear that the laptop was owned by Mr W and hes told us that it was used 
for the purposes of his business. As such then, Im satisfied that the laptop was business 
equipment, in line with the policy definition.
However, that doesnt mean that all claims for stolen business equipment will be covered 
under this section of the policy. Business Cover also sets out a list of specific events or items 
that UKI wont pay for. This list includes the following exclusion:
Valuables which are not kept in one of the places listed below:
With you.
In a locked safety deposit box.
Stored in a safe.
Hidden from view in your locked personal accommodation.
UKI has also defined what it means by valuables. These are personal items of value 
includingcomputers.
While Mr W used the laptop for his business, it did belong to him. And so whilst I agree that 
the laptop is business equipment for the purposes of the policy, I also find that it falls 
squarely within UKIs definition of valuables too. As such, the laptop falls within both 
definitions. Business equipment and valuables arent entirely separate categories of item 
which will necessarily be treated independently of one another. In cases where an item 
straddles the definition of both a valuable and business equipment, UKI will need to consider 
which policy terms are applicable. The valuables exclusion Ive explained above has been 
clearly set out within the Business Cover section (as well as applying elsewhere in the 
policy). This means the valuables exclusion forms part of the overall Business Cover 
section of the policy and therefore, I find UKI is entitled to decide whether it applies to 
business equipment claims. And so Im satisfied that it was fair for UKI to treat the laptop as 
a valuable and to assess whether the exclusion applied to the circumstances of Ms A and Mr 
Ws claim.
Based on the claim circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that 
the laptop claim was excluded from cover under the Business Cover section of the policy. 
Thats because its common ground that the laptop was stored in a car and it wasnt in a 
safety deposit box, safe etc. Accordingly then, I find it was fair for UKI to turn down this part of Ms A and Mr Ws claim.
Overall, I sympathise with Ms A and Mr Ws position, as I appreciate they were victims of a 
theft and that this matter has clearly caused them a great deal of upset. Its clear that they 
feel strongly about their complaint. However, having considered everything, I dont think that 
UKI has treated them unfairly and Im not telling it to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman