DRN-2684233
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim on 
his motor insurance policy and is now seeking to recover its costs from him.
What happened
Mr N took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through an online site. When he collided 
with another car in a car park, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Watford declined his claim. It said hed answered the question hed been asked about how 
he used his car incorrectly. And that it considered that he wasnt covered by his policy which 
entitled it to refuse his claim. Watford said it wouldnt indemnify Mr N for the other drivers 
repair and medical costs, which are currently over £12,000. 
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
thought there had been a misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was qualifying as 
Watford would have provided cover on the same terms and for the same price if Mr N had 
answered the question he was asked about use of the car correctly. He believed Mr N had 
been careless. So he said Watford should deal with Mr Ns claim. 
Watford doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said it hadnt refused the claim because of misrepresentation but because Mr N wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Watford didnt think CIDRA applied in Mr Ns case. 
But I disagree. I can see that Watfords decision to decline the claim is because of the 
answer Mr N gave to a question he was asked when the policy was taken out. I think CIDRA 
applies because the inception of the policy decides on the terms applicable to the policy. 
And Watfords decision to decline the claim is because of the resultant policy terms. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
I think Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he stated 
in his online application that he used his car for Social, domestic and pleasure use only 
(SDP). 
Ive looked at the question Mr N was asked when he completed the application and I agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked What do you use the car 
for, and given three options  SDP only, SDP and commuting and SDP and Business use. 
A pop up box gave further information about the three options. And I think this was a clear 
question asked by Watford.
Mr N chose SDP only and hes explained that he made a mistake. He said he thought hed 
ticked the box for SDP and commuting as he used the car to drive to work. But he also didnt 
notice the error on the policy documents. Ive listened to the claim notification call and Im 
satisfied that Mr N thought hed be covered for commuting. But this wasnt what hed chosen. 
So I think this means Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he used the car for SDP use only. 
For this to be considered a qualifying mis-representation I need to see if Mr Ns answers 
induced Watford into offering cover it wouldnt normally do or offer it on different terms. 
Watford has provided evidence which shows that if Mr N had not made this 
misrepresentation it would still have offered him cover on the same terms and for the same 
premium. This means I am satisfied Mr Ns misrepresentation wasnt a qualifying one under 
CIDRA.
Therefore, Im satisfied Watford wasnt was entitled to decline Mr Ns in accordance with 
CIDRA. And I think Watford does have to deal with his claim following the collision. And  as 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think not 
allowing Watford to rely on it to decline Mr Ns claim produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to deal with Mr Ns claim following the 
collision under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman