DRN-3952949
The complaint
A company I will refer to as T complains that County Insurance Consultants Limited (County) 
mis-sold a commercial motor insurance policy resulting in a declined claim, and inadequate 
cover that is in place until 2024. 
What happened
T made a claim as a result of a lorry toppling over when it was unloading. It says the claim 
was declined. It says the insurer referred to a term that excludes cover when a vehicle is 
being used as a tool of the trade. This hadnt been highlighted to it previously. 
T says it has a long-term relationship with County and expected it to have a better 
understanding of its business requirements. As a result, it has suffered an uninsured loss 
and is still tied into an inadequate policy until 2024.
In its complaint response County says the insurer relied on a policy exclusion to decline the 
claim. Specifically, that the activity resulting in the incident had been carried out unsafely. It 
refers to the lorry driver not positioning stabilisers correctly. It also highlights the clause that 
excludes losses where the vehicle is being used as a tool of the trade. County didnt uphold 
Ts complaint and wasnt able to release it from its contract with the insurer. 
T didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She says its clear Ts vehicles are used as tools of its trade frequently 
and that County was aware that cover was required for carrying out business activities. 
Because of this she didnt think the policy met Ts requirements and County hadnt 
highlighted the exclusion sufficiently. 
Our investigator says County should arrange for T to be released from the contract with the 
insurer. This means County should cover the financial costs in the event the insurer declined 
to allow this. But she thought the claim was declined fairly based on the safe use exclusion.
County agreed, but T didnt. It says this outcome doesnt reflect the financial damage or the 
stress and worry caused. T asked for an ombudsman to consider its complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain. 
County acts as insurance broker for T. T was placed with its current insurance provider in 
2018. Ive read the policy terms to understand what exclusions are in place. The terms say:
General Exceptions:
any loss damage or liability under Section 1 whilst any item of mechanical plant or 
machinery or tool whether attached to the Insured Vehicle or not, is being used as a TOOL 
OF TRADE including whilst loading or discharging a load except so far as it is necessary to 
meet the requirements of the Road Traffic Acts and under Section 2 damage to the Insured 
Vehicle itself is excluded.
I acknowledge Ts comments that this exclusion means it isnt covered for activities it 
frequently carries out. Ive looked at Countys notes to see what it understood Ts 
requirements were. A factfinder document dated in August 2018, asks the question, Please 
indicate the nature of your operation. Ts answer is recorded as, Machinery Movement & 
General Haulage. Under, What types of goods are carried T responded with, Machinery & 
Heavy Plant.
I think its clear T was reliant on County to source an insurance policy that fit with the needs 
of its business. Its also clear the exclusion clause in the current insurers terms meant the 
policy didnt meet its needs. 
County has provided copies of email correspondence both internal and external. I can see 
from this that Ts previous insurer didnt have the tools of the trade exclusion. However, 
when the new insurer was appointed, I cant see that County highlighted this new term. 
Given its significance, I think it should have.  
I can see that our investigator asked T whether other claims had been impacted by this 
exclusion. It hasnt shown that it did. But I can understand Ts concern that it is at risk of 
suffering future uninsured losses because its currently tied into this policy until 2024. 
Because of this I think its reasonable that County makes arrangements to allow T to be 
released from its current insurance policy. If the insurer isnt agreeable, it should ensure any 
premium T has paid for cover post cancellation is refunded, as well as covering any other 
financial costs in cancelling the policy. 
Ive thought about whether this exclusion impacted on Ts insurer declining its claim for 
losses. I dont think it did. The insurer relied on another exclusion based on safe use. The 
terms say:
We shall not be liable in respect of: (1) any accident, injury, loss, damage or liability caused, 
sustained or incurred whilst the Insured Vehicle is: being used in an unsafe condition either 
before or after an accident.
From what Ive seen the losses occurred as a result of Ts employee not following the correct 
procedure involving stabilisers. This isnt related to the tools of the trade exclusion. So, I 
dont think the insurers decision will have been any different had the tools of the trade 
exclusion not been there. 
I acknowledge Ts reference to financial damage caused to the business. We asked for 
information to demonstrate this point. From what Ive seen I dont think financial damage has 
been demonstrated. Other than the contract issue, which I have already addressed. 
I also acknowledge Ts reference to the stress and worry caused by the declined claim and 
the mis-advice provided. Im sorry the individuals working for T have been upset by this 
matter. However, the complainant here is a business. Im not able to consider an award for 
distress suffered by a business.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. County Insurance Consultants Limited should:
make arrangements to allow T to be released from its current insurance policy - if the 
insurer doesnt allow for this, County should pay the costs involved in cancelling the 
policy, including refunding any premiums paid for cover post the cancellation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman