DRN-2800982
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined her claim for theft 
under her contents insurance policy.
What happened
After reporting a burglary at her home to the police, Ms W made a claim under her contents 
insurance. RSA asked how the burglar had gained entry, but Ms W gave differing reasons. 
She said that, the burglar had a key; the lock was picked; her front door was forced; items 
were just moved from one room to another, and that neighbours waited for her to go out so 
they could break in. 
RSA asked for evidence of the items stolen, which included a substantial amount of money, 
but Ms W couldnt provide any receipts or paperwork to confirm ownership.  
Because of the inconsistencies, RSA asked for further information from the police officer 
who attended. After a significant but unavoidable delay, RSA told Ms W that the police 
officers report didnt support her explanation of events. As Ms W couldnt show that a 
burglary had happened, or that items were stolen, RSA declined her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that its Ms Ws responsibility to 
show that she suffered an insured loss. As she couldnt provide any evidence of that, she 
thought RSA had acted reasonably in declining her claim. Our investigator didnt think RSA 
needed to do any more.
Ms W didnt agree. She repeated much of her complaint and said RSA had looked at the 
wrong door, so it missed the evidence of a break in. She also said the written police report 
confirmed her door had been damaged.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to hear about the circumstances of Ms Ws claim, Ive decided not to uphold 
her complaint. I realise she will be disappointed, but Ill explain my reasons here.
The overriding issue is that Ms W is unhappy RSA declined her claim for theft from her 
home. Ive looked at Ms Ws policy and I can see she is covered for theft of contents from 
her home:
What is covered
Loss or damage to contents in the homecaused by the following:
6. Theftusing force and violence to get into or out of the home.
7. Theft not using force and violence to get into or out of the home.
While signs of force are not a requirement for a claim to succeed under the policy, RSA is 
entitled to ask Ms W to provide evidence that the insured event  the break in  took place. 
Ms W referred to RSAs confirmation that the police report said there were signs of forced 
entry. Ive looked at the evidence and I can see that on one occasion RSA did confirm that. 
However, RSA went on to say the report said there wasnt any sign of forced entry. This is 
contradictory, so I can see why that would be confusing. I think the information provided by 
the attending police officer when Ms W reported the theft is the most persuasive. RSA 
interviewed the police officer, who confirmed that there was no sign of forced entry, only 
scuff marks. 
Im satisfied that there was no external evidence of someone breaking in to Ms Ws home to 
steal her belongings. But, as the policy doesnt exclude burglary without forced entry, Ive 
gone on to look at whether it was fair for RSA to decline her overall claim for theft.
The policy states:
Claims conditions require you to provide us with any reasonable assistance and evidence 
that maybe required concerning the cause and value of any claim. Ideally, as part of the 
initial notification, we will need to know 
This information will enable us to make an initial evaluation on policy cover and claim value. 
We may, ask for additional information depending upon circumstances and value which may 
include the following:
Original purchase receipts, invoices, instruction booklets or photographs
Purchase dates and location of lost or damaged property
Sometimes we may wish to meet with you to discuss the circumstances of the claim, to 
inspect the damage, or to undertake further investigations.
While forced entry may not be an issue, its clear that RSA is entitled to ask for other 
information from Ms W to show that she owned the items for which she is claiming.
So, Ive looked at the information Ms W has provided. She originally prepared a handwritten 
note of some items which she believed had been stolen. However, Ms W didnt provide any 
evidence that shed owned the stolen items. Some of the things shes mentioned were 
shoes, ornaments and clothes. I understand Ms W also claimed for £20,000 of money which 
shed had at home. However, she hasnt provided any evidence to show where the money 
was from. So, overall, I dont think Ms W has evidenced ownership of the stolen items and, 
for that reason, I dont think she has reasonably demonstrated to RSA that an insured event 
occurred.
Finally, I understand Ms W thinks RSA received information about the wrong door, which will 
have prevented it from agreeing with her that there was evidence of force. Ive seen 
reference to the condition of both front and back doors to Ms Ws home, so I think its 
unlikely that any evidence of damage wouldve been missed. I also note that Ms W said her 
lock was picked and that a key was used. Neither of these methods of entry wouldve 
caused visible damage, so its not unreasonable that RSA doesnt have any evidence of 
forced entry.
 
Overall, I cant imagine how distressing it must be for Ms W to think that people are entering 
her home on a regular basis and taking her belongings. Im genuinely sorry to hear about 
that. However, I cant fairly ask RSA to settle her claim without any evidence of a break in or ownership of the stolen property. So, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that RSA 
fairly declined Ms Ws claim and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman