DRN-2683729
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made under her 
home insurance policy for subsidence.
  
What happened
In 2019, Ms K got in touch with Aviva because shed noticed cracking to the extension of her 
home. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for investigations 
to establish the cause of the problem. In summary, the loss adjuster said:
The extension was suffering subsidence damage caused by nearby vegetation
But the claim was declined because the foundation was defective
Its investigations found the extension had a 1.4m deep foundation.
At the time it was built, Building Regulations required a minimum foundation depth of 
1m in clay with high volume change potential.
That depth may need to be increased and here it should have been increased to 
2.3m based on guidance provided by a builder of new homes, N.
Tree roots were found to a depth of 2.1m. Had the foundation been 2.3m deep, the 
damage may not have occurred.
Ms K didnt think this was fair and complained. She said her main house had been signed off 
by N when it was built in 2004. And the extension had been signed off by local authority 
Building Control when it was built in 2017. She considered this showed the foundations had 
been adequate.
Aviva agreed with the conclusions reached by the loss adjuster. Ms K referred her complaint 
to this service. During our investigation, the loss adjuster said the clay soil was medium 
plasticity, rather than high, and that meant the foundation should have been 2m deep. They 
maintained that if the foundation had been built to this depth, the damage wouldnt have 
occurred.
The investigator thought Aviva had acted unfairly. He didnt think there was a requirement for 
the extension foundation to comply with the guidance provided by N. And he didnt think 
Aviva had shown the builder had failed to meet Building Regulation or British Standards. He 
thought Aviva should accept the claim and pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Ms K.
Aviva didnt think this was fair. It said the foundation had failed to comply with Building 
Regulations, British Standards and the guidance provided by N. It also noted the damage 
had occurred around two years after the extension had been built and thought this evidence 
spoke for itself that the structure was defective.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and Aviva accepts the extension has 
suffered subsidence damage as a result of nearby trees drying the subsoil. The policy 
excludes damage caused by faulty or unsuitable design.
Aviva has relied on this exclusion to decline the claim. The onus is on Aviva to show this is 
the case.
The extension was subject to Building Regulations and the builder was required to follow 
them. So Im satisfied these are relevant standards to take into account.
Aviva has considered the Building Regulations that applied at the time. It notes Requirement 
A2 says, in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground movement caused 
by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. Aviva says that because theres been subsidence 
as a result of clay shrinkage, this point hasnt been met.
Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as Aviva has would produce a fair 
outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused by clay 
shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt covered by the policy. 
The introduction to the Regulations says the requirement will be met by following the 
recommendations and guidance contained within the document. I understand that to mean 
requirement A2 is a broad aim and there is more detailed, specific information in the 
following sections about how to achieve that aim.
At the time the extension was built, the relevant Building Regulations were those updated in 
2013. They set out a minimum foundation depth requirement of 0.9m in medium plasticity 
clay soil. And noted the depth may need to be increased. The foundation was 1.4m deep. So 
it exceeded, by around 50%, the minimum requirement of Regulations.
Ms K notes the local authority building control issued a completion certificate for the 
extension. Ive seen the certificate and a log of inspections made during construction, 
including when the ground was excavated to check the soil type and prepare to lay the 
foundation. Their notes indicate they were aware of the nearby trees and satisfied that a 
foundation of at least 1m was suitable in the circumstances. The builder laid a foundation 
consistent with this. Im satisfied that a certificate was issued for the extension, including the 
foundation  and this was based on awareness of nearby trees and the soil type.
Aviva says Building Regulations werent met but I disagree. The builder met and exceeded 
the minimum requirements, followed the guidance of building control, and a completion 
certificate was issued. Because of this, Im satisfied the foundation met Building Regulations.
Aviva also says the foundation failed to meet British Standards. It accepts these Standards 
didnt form part of Regulation at the relevant time. That means the builder wasnt required to 
comply with those Standards. But Aviva considers they ought to have been taken into 
account by the builder as a reputable code of practice.
The relevant code is BS8004 and the version that was updated in 2015. Aviva notes it 
contains a section about building near trees. It says foundations should be designed to 
accommodate the impact of nearby trees on clay soils and notes N provides guidance on 
building near trees.
Ive considered the points Aviva has made about the guidance found in British Standards. 
They require the builder to consider the impact of trees in clay and provide a foundation 
appropriate for the circumstances. Im satisfied that complying with Building Regulations and taking advice on the foundation depth and soil type from building control fulfils this 
requirement. Reference is made to Ns guidance, although the Standards dont go so far as 
to require the builder to follow it. So its not clear that the Standards place an expectation on 
builders to construct a foundation in keeping with the depths specified in Ns guidance.
The builder was required to follow Regulation, but not British Standards. And as Aviva has 
accepted, British Standards dont form part of Building Regulations. Whilst I agree that 
British Standards are a reputable source of guidance, Im not persuaded they outweigh the 
requirements of Building Regulations. Because of that, even if the Standards do require 
reference to Ns guidance, Im not persuaded that means Ns guidance should have been 
followed instead of Building Regulations. 
The loss adjuster considered guidance applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. It says 
this guidance requires a foundation depth of at least 2m, taking into account the nearby trees 
and soil type underneath the rear extension. The foundation was 1.4m deep. Roots were 
found to a depth of 2.1m. The loss adjuster says that subsidence wouldnt have occurred if 
the foundation had been built to a depth of 2m.
But I havent seen any evidence to show that the extension was subject to Ns guidance. 
Whilst the main house was signed off by N as a new home in 2004, that didnt include the 
extension. It was added in 2017, so it wasnt built as part of a new home and that means it 
wasnt built under Ns supervision.
Whilst some builders and engineers may choose to use Ns guidance, even when not 
working under its supervision, I dont think Aviva has shown the builder was required to 
follow that guidance when building Ms Ks extension. Building Regulation was the most 
relevant standard and it didnt require reference to Ns guidance. And its not clear that 
British Standards require a builder to follow Ns guidance. So Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to judge the design of the foundation against the guidance of N.
Ms K has a completion certificate to show her extension met the legal requirements of 
Building Regulations. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair to decline 
her claim on the basis that the extension didnt meet a separate set of standards  that 
werent a legal requirement, or a requirement placed on the builder for any other reason. So 
even if I placed equal or more weight on British Standards compared to Building 
Regulations, and accepted that they required reference to Ns guidance, I dont think Id 
agree it would be fair to decline Ms Ks claim.
Aviva has pointed out the damage occurred around two years after the extension was built. I 
think Ms K and most homeowners would expect an extension to stand problem free for 
longer than that. So I agree that two years doesnt amount to standing the test of time. But I 
dont think that outweighs the points made above  particularly the compliance with Building 
Regulation and the advice of building control.
Overall, Im not satisfied Aviva has shown the foundation design was faulty or unsuitable. As 
a result, I dont think it was fair to decline the claim. To put things right, it should now accept 
the claim.
The claim was declined in February 2020. Since then Ms K has faced the distress of seeing 
the damage and the uncertainty of how and when it will be put right. Had the claim been 
accepted instead of being declined, Im satisfied it would have lessened the distress Ms K 
has suffered. As a result, I think its fair for Aviva to pay compensation. Im satisfied £250 is a 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.
  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Accept the subsidence claim for the extension.
Pay £250 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman