DRN-2381209
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Over a number of years, water leaked through Miss Ts ceiling from the flat above. In 2020, 
Miss Ts bathroom ceiling collapsed and so Miss T contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds 
agreed to pay to replace Miss Ts bathroom suite under the accidental damage part of the 
policy but declined the rest of the claim because the water leaks were a long term issue that 
started before it was her insurer. Miss T asked Lloyds to assist her with her claim more 
widely, but it declined to do so.
Miss T complained to Lloyds. Lloyds replied and maintained its decision on the claim. It said 
that Miss T would need to refer the part of her claim about the water leaks to her previous 
insurer. It said that it had offered Miss T a settlement, which she had declined.
Miss T complained to Lloyds again because she hadnt received a phone call and she was 
unhappy that the previous response had said she had declined the settlement offer, when 
she had asked for it to be put on hold. When Lloyds replied it said that it had attempted to 
phone Miss T and it wasnt clear why she hadnt received the call. It agreed that the previous 
letter could have been worded differently and confirmed that the claim for the bathroom suite 
had been put on hold while Miss T tried to resolve other parts of the claim.
Miss T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Lloyds had dealt with the claim reasonably by offering a cash settlement for the part for 
which it was liable.
As Miss T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding is that Miss T had several water leaks from the property above over a 
number of years. In 2014, a previous insurer dealt with a claim for the water leaks. I will 
consider a complaint related to that separately. However, the leaks continued and eventually 
Miss Ts bathroom ceiling collapsed.
Lloyds was only willing to deal with one part of the claim, which was the damage to the 
bathroom suite, as it said that the rest of the claim was an ongoing issue from before Lloyds 
insured Miss T. Looking at the surveyors report about its visit to Miss Ts home, it seems 
that Miss T had said that there had been leaks from the flat above over a number of years. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decide that it wasnt responsible for dealing with 
that part of the claim because it was a long term issue that started before it was her insurer. 
However, it accepted the part of the claim about damage to the bathroom suite under the 
accidental damage part of the policy because this happened during the period in which 
Lloyds was Miss Ts insurer. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and the only 
part of the claim for which it was responsible.
Ive also thought about whether Miss T not receiving a phone call from Lloyds or Lloyds 
incorrectly saying that she had declined its settlement offer made any difference to how the 
claim was handled. I dont think that it did as Miss T had asked to put the claim on hold 
anyway and although she didnt receive a call, I cant see that it impacted dealing with the 
claim. I think that Lloyds response to these issues was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss T said that Lloyds should have helped her with her claim more widely by dealing with 
the whole claim and all the damage in full and attempting recovery from her previous insurer 
or the third party insurer. Although I can understand Miss Ts view, I dont agree. There is no 
specific duty for an insurer to do this. The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) includes a general duty on an insurer to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim. In my view, Lloyds carried out this duty by explaining to Miss T 
that she should approach her previous insurer to make a claim for the wider damage. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds had an obligation to contact her previous 
insurer or the third party insurer or represent Miss T to them.
Im aware Miss T has said she is also unhappy that this claim has been recorded on her 
records, as the third party insurer had now agreed to cover the costs of repairing her 
bathroom, and the impact of it on her premiums. However, Im unable to consider these 
points as they need to be raised as a complaint with the relevant business before this 
service can potentially consider them.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman