DRN-3688081
The complaint
Mr R complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
didnt do enough to prevent his loss or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund thirteen payments he made between 16 
September and 3 November 2020 in respect of a scam carried out by a company Ill refer to 
as T. He lost £28,900.14 in total, which included money he borrowed with a loan from 
Lloyds for £25,000.
Mr R responded to an advert on social media and was contacted by someone claiming to 
work for T. The man said he was an experienced investment broker and advised Mr R to 
invest in cryptocurrency, explaining T would take a percentage of his profits as commission. 
He told Mr R to make debit card payments to two cryptocurrency exchange companies, 
advising him hed need to lie to Lloyds about the purpose of the payments, or it would try to 
stop him from investing the money. Mr R was advised to make payments to the 
cryptocurrency exchange company before sending the money to the broker to be invested. 
In October 2020, Mr R took out a loan and made further payments (both online transfers and 
debit card payments), as per the brokers instructions. The broker showed Mr R how to 
withdraw money from the accounts he held at the crypto exchanges, but on 29 October 
2020, he was told hed have to invest more funds, or risk losing money. He also was told 
hed be given a £5,000 bonus. At this point Mr R tried to withdraw some money and realised 
hed been the victim of a scam when he wasnt able to do so.
Mr R approached Lloyds for help, but it said it was unable to raise a chargeback request 
because the cryptocurrency exchange companies had provided the service they were 
required to provide. It also said the debit card payments werent covered by the CRM code.
It said the crypto exchanges were authorised in the UK at the time the scam took place and 
so there was no reason not to allow the transactions. It said it had tried to block a number of 
the payments and warned him about the potential risks on multiple occasions. It also said it 
had asked robust questions in response to which Mr R had failed to mention he was being 
assisted by an investment broker, instead stating his brother-in-law had said he should 
invest in Bitcoin. Mr R had also confirmed nobody had asked him to download any software 
and that the payments were going to his own personal accounts with cryptocurrency 
exchange companies. 
Lloyds said Mr Rs representative had confirmed the broker had been advising Mr R in the 
background and using remote access to help him, therefore the information hed given it was 
incorrect. It didnt think it could have stopped Mr R from making the payments as he was 
adamant he knew what he was doing, and would probably have ignored further warnings. 
It also said it offered the loan based on the information Mr R had shared and that when he 
was asked about it by the fraud team hed said the money was for a car, so his dishonesty 
had prevented it from advising him properly about the risk of fraud.
Mr R complained to this service explaining the investment seemed low-risk and the broker 
appeared friendly, professional and experienced. He said that when he tried to make the first 
payment of £250, Lloyds declined the transaction and asked him to call it to discuss the 
payment. At this point the broker told him to say he was paying for goods because if he said 
he was investing, Lloyds would try to keep the business for itself.
He explained he could see his account was making a profit and so he decided to make more 
payments to generate more profit. The broker would access his computer using remote 
access software to show him how to make further deposits to the platform. He was then told 
to take out a loan so that he could invest more and when he asked the scammer about how 
he could withdraw money, he was able to transfer £74 and £230, which convinced him the 
platform was legitimate, hence his decision to make further deposits. He argued he was 
inexperienced in investing and Lloyds shouldnt have given him the loan.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained the starting point 
is that Mr R is liable for any payments he authorised and that the CRM code isnt applicable 
to any of the payments because both accounts were in Mr Rs name. He also said that after 
reviewing the warnings Lloyds gave to Mr R, he was satisfied it had done everything it could 
reasonably have been expected to have done to try and warn him about the possible risks.
Mr Rs representative asked for consideration to be given to a liability split. They argued 
Lloyds knew this could have been a scam as it had stopped multiple payments, yet it still 
allowed Mr R to take out a loan. They said that although Mr R misled Lloyds, it was clear the 
loan was for a cryptocurrency investment and, given hed made multiple payments to B and 
Lloyds knew scammers often tell their victims to lie, it should have recognised Mr R wasnt 
being truthful. 
Our investigator said that as Mr R had given false and misleading information when he took 
out the loan, he didn't think it was reasonable for Lloyds to link the loan application with the 
disputed payments. And he commented that Lloyds had applied blocks to the payments, Mr 
R had ignored the warnings and he didnt think Lloyds wouldve been able to do anything 
more to stop Mr R from going ahead with the payments. He also said that Lloyds had told Mr 
R to undertake some research and had he done so, hed have discovered T had an active 
warning placed against them by the FCA.
He was satisfied Mr R had told Lloyds he knew all the risks he was taking; hed been into 
branch three times and when questioned, he said the payments were his choice, they were 
going to his own account and no one had told him to lie.
Mr Rs representative has confirmed he wants the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, arguing Lloyds knew he had a gambling habit and couldnt pay his bills and it 
shouldnt have agreed to lend him £25,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The LoanLloyds agreed to lend Mr R £25,000 based on the information he gave to it as part of an 
online application. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr R gave false information 
about the purpose of the loan as part of that application and, consequently, he cant now 
argue the lending was irresponsible or that Lloyds should have somehow second-guessed 
the information it was given. Lloyds systems concluded Mr R was eligible for the loan and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that was either unfair or unreasonable.
Further, Lloyds concerns regarding the disputed payments were based around the fact Mr R 
could have potentially been the victim of a scam, not that he was buying cryptocurrency. So, 
once Mr R had reassured it that he was aware of the risks involved, it wouldnt have made 
any difference that the loan was being used to fund an investment. 
CRM
Mr R made the disputed transactions as part of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) Fraud, 
but the payments arent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). This is 
because, although Lloyds is signed up to the code, the payments were all made to accounts 
that Mr R held in his name.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).
Lloyds has said the chargeback was unsuccessful because the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies fulfilled their obligations to convert the money into crypto and send it on as 
requested, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Should Lloyds refund any money?
Although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Lloyds is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments 
went to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, Lloyds has an obligation to 
intervene where there is a fraud or scam and these payments were part of a wider scam. In 
these circumstances, what we would expect Lloyds to have done to protect Mr R is restricted 
to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual that 
Lloyds ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he tried to make the payments. 
Even though the highest payment was for £4950, Lloyds has confirmed the payments did 
flag as suspicious on its system and that it made several attempts to block the payments and 
warn Mr R about the risk of fraud. Lloyds asked Mr R what the payments were for and he 
said they were for goods, not investments. On other occasions, Mr R was warned by Lloyds 
to do further research and to visit his branch to discuss what was happening. When he did 
visit the branch, Mr R said his brother-in-law had also invested in Bitcoin, but he didnt 
mention there was a third-party broker involved.Having considered the chronology of events and the fact Mr R didnt give the full story, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds did everything it could reasonably have done in the circumstances to 
warn Mr R about the possible risks associated with the payments he was trying to make. The 
payments were being made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies and Mr R 
wasnt truthful with Lloyds about the involvement of T, so there was nothing Lloyds could 
have done to alert him that there were warnings about T. 
Notwithstanding the lack of information, Im satisfied Lloyds did everything it could to warn 
Mr R about investments involving cryptocurrency exchange companies in general, including 
advising him to undertake his own internet research. Lloyds even told Mr R about the 
practice of scammers telling their victims to lie to their bank to avoid the payments being 
blocked and Im satisfied that this, along with the fact Mr R was made to visit the branch to 
discuss the payments, was enough to warn him about the risks associated with the 
payments he was trying to make.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds took the correct steps prior to the funds being released, it did 
have concerns at different points and after speaking to Mr R, he reassured them that he 
knew what he was doing and I dont think Lloyds ought to have reasonably suspected he 
was falling victim to a fraud or scam after these conversations. Im also satisfied Lloyds took 
the appropriate action after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr R lost 
such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds is 
to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman