DRN-2953761
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) removed her name from 
joint accounts despite her placing an alert on their systems to prevent this. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and isnt in dispute. So, Ill only 
briefly summarise key details. Mrs K and her ex-husband held three joint accounts with 
Halifax. In September 2020, Mrs K asked Halifax to place an alert on their system to prevent 
her name being removed from the accounts. She told Halifax she suspects her ex-husband 
may attend a branch with a form  and if that was the case, they shouldnt remove her name. 
Despite this, Mrs Ks ex-husband was able to remove Mrs K from the three accounts. Mrs K 
was told by Halifax her ex-husband was able to do this by presenting a form at a Halifax 
branch. Halifax later retrieved the form and accepted the signature on there didnt look like 
the signature they held on their system for Mrs K. 
Mrs K complained to Halifax and they agreed they had made an error in removing Mrs Ks 
name from the joint accounts. Halifax sent a cheque to Mrs K for £500 and then sent a 
further cheque for £1,000 as compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs K. During the investigation, Mrs K raised a further 
complaint. She said Halifax hadnt provided her with statements for the joint accounts. 
Halifax apologised and then sent the statements by post. Halifax also paid a further £500 
compensation to Mrs K. Halifax told us Mrs Ks name had been reinstated on all three joint 
accounts but they remained blocked until she and her ex-husband are able to resolve their 
dispute. Our investigator thought the steps taken by Halifax were fair and reasonable and 
wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. Mrs K disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifaxs payment of £2,000 is a fair way to resolve matters 
and so I dont uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs K will be disappointed by this but Ill 
explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs K including the events which led to Mrs Ks 
name being removed from the joint accounts. The key facts about this complaint arent in 
dispute. Halifax have admitted they got things wrong when they removed Mrs Ks name from 
the joint accounts based on a signature on a form which they later realised was different to 
the signature they held on file for her. 
Halifax also accept that the joint accounts should have been frozen and they agree they 
should have asked more questions when Mrs K contacted them to say she was worried 
about being removed from the joint accounts. The only issue I have to decide is whether the 
amount of compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Halifax should compensate Mrs K for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Its clear Mrs K was very concerned about being removed from 
the joint accounts and made Halifax aware of this. So, its understandable she was caused 
significant upset when she later found out she had been removed from the joint accounts. 
This led to Mrs K not having access to the accounts and having to borrow money from her 
friends and family. Mrs K says this caused embarrassment and she also had to take time off 
work due to the stress this caused. I dont doubt this event has been very upsetting for Mrs K 
and her correspondence with Halifax around this time is evidence of this. Mrs K says, 
throughout this she was left worried her ex-husband, who still had access to the accounts, 
could have taken a lump sum out. I feel its reasonable for Halifax to pay compensation to 
reflect the distress and upset caused to Mrs K as well as the inconvenience in having to 
borrow money for essential items. I can see Halifax have paid £1,500 compensation for 
these parts of the complaint and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In 
addition to this Halifax accept there were errors in the handling of Mrs Ks request for 
statements and theyve paid her compensation of £500 for this  which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Mrs K has told us she has received the £2,000 compensation from Halifax.  
I understand Mrs K feels Halifax should reimburse her solicitors fees  which she says have 
arisen as a result of this dispute. Mrs K says there was no financial dispute regarding the 
accounts. The information shows there was already a dispute in place before the errors were 
made by Halifax. Case notes provided by Halifax show Mrs K was concerned about a form 
her ex-husband had asked her to sign and this led her to contact Halifax to place an alert on 
their system. The information shows Mrs Ks ex-husband then took the form to a Halifax 
branch to remove her name without her consent. After Mrs Ks name is removed from the 
joint accounts, the case notes show Mrs K called Halifax and explained she is in the process 
of divorce. So, taking these factors into account, I think its reasonable to say there was 
already a dispute in place so I cant say Mrs K had to instruct solicitors as a direct result of 
Halifaxs errors. So, I wont be asking Halifax to reimburse these fees. 
Mrs K also feels Halifax should cover the money she owes her friends and family. I dont 
think thats reasonable in the circumstances here. While I understand Mrs K had to borrow 
money for day to day expenses like food and petrol, if she did have access to her accounts, 
she would have been paying for these items herself. So, I cant say the borrowed money is 
an expense she wouldnt have incurred had it not been for Halifaxs error.      
I do understand Mrs K was left worried at the possibility her ex-husband could have taken 
lump sums out of the joint accounts while he still had access and she didnt. But, that hasnt 
happened here so I cant ask Halifax to compensate for an impact which didnt occur. There 
is of course the worry and stress to Mrs K at knowing her ex-husband still had access over a 
period when Halifax shouldve blocked the accounts. But, I think the £1,500 compensation 
paid for this part of the complaint takes this impact into account. I can see Halifax have now 
reinstated Mrs Ks name on all three accounts and placed a block on the accounts until the 
dispute is resolved. I think this approach is reasonable given a dispute remains between  
Mrs K and her ex-husband.   
I can see Mrs K is concerned she incurred late fees from other service providers following 
Direct Debits not being paid and she had to make arrangements to change her Direct Debit 
instructions. I can see from statements provided by Halifax that no Direct Debits were unpaid 
over the period Mrs Ks name was removed from the accounts. 
Halifax say, had a block been placed on the accounts in September 2020  which is what 
shouldve happened  then no payments would have been allowed on the account. This 
means no Direct Debits wouldve been possible. And, because the account was in dispute, 
Halifax wouldve recommended Mrs K set up a sole account in order to meet her financial 
obligations to other service providers. In this case though, that didnt happen and Mrs Ks Direct Debits continued to be paid. So, I cant ask Halifax to meet any late fees as the 
evidence shows the Direct Debit payments out of the joint accounts were paid. 
I understand Mrs K was put to inconvenience in having to set up another account to pay 
Direct Debits but that would always have been the case given there is a dispute on the 
account. I understand Mrs K says she wouldnt have opened a sole account when the issue 
first started and she wouldve taken steps to remove her ex-husbands name from the 
accounts so her Direct Debits couldve remained on the same account. Im not persuaded 
that wouldve been the case as there was a dispute at the time - and the fact Mrs Ks ex-
husband took steps to remove her from the accounts without her consent is evidence of this. 
I havent seen any information which suggests Mrs Ks ex-husband wouldve agreed for his 
name to be removed from the accounts.     
I can see Halifax accept there have been errors. And in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience theyve paid a total of £2,000 in compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and wont be asking Halifax to take any further steps. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman