DRN-3533961
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the funds he lost 
in a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Mr L looked for an investment online and received a call from a company. 
Mr L looked at online reviews of the company and didnt find anything negative. He filled in 
an application form and made payments to an account in his own name at a cryptocurrency 
platform Ill call C which was then invested. Mr L had access to an online platform to check 
the progress of his investment and was able to withdraw some funds. But when Mr L tried to 
withdraw a larger sum, he was asked to pay fees but was still unable to access his profits so 
realised he was the victim of a scam. 
Mr L made the payments I have listed below online from his NatWest account to his account 
with C. It seems not all of these payments were transferred to the scammer(s) as he has told 
this service that he lost £34,694 in the scam. 
Date Amount
14/04/21 £1,000
26/04/21 £1,600
04/05/21 £1,700
24/05/21 £15,000
24/05/21 £5,000
08/06/21 £5,000
21/06/21 £4,500
22/06/21 £4,000
22/06/21 £1,000
13/07/21 £3,500
Total £42,300
Mr L contacted NatWest about the scam in July 2021. NatWest said that no scam case had 
been raised and advised Mr L to make contact with its fraud department.  
After a later review, NatWest didnt agree to provide a refund. It said that it has systems in 
place to look out for unusual payments, but the ones Mr L made didnt match fraud trends 
and so werent blocked. NatWest also said that as the funds were paid to an account in Mr 
Ls name it couldnt raise a fraud claim to try to recover his funds. 
Mr L believes NatWest failed to properly protect his funds and ignored obvious fraud warning 
signs. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ls complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
said that the scam payments wouldnt have stood out as unusual or uncharacteristic given 
Mr Ls usual account activity and so NatWest acted reasonably in processing the payments. 
She said this because Mr L made genuine payments to the cryptocurrency exchange before 
the scam, so it wasnt a new payee. The scam payments were also spread over a period of 
time, Mr L had previously made high value payments and although some payments took Mr 
L into overdraft, this also wasnt unusual. In terms of recovery, the investigator said had 
NatWest acted sooner it wouldnt have made a difference as the payments were made to an 
account in Mr Ls name. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators findings and so his complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. In summary, he said:
- This service should take into account whats fair and reasonable as well as the legal 
position.
- He has lost his life savings, financial stability and dignity.
- He disputed the transactions and requested a chargeback in July 2021 so if NatWest 
had acted in a timely manner all funds lost in the scam could have been reimbursed. 
Mr L referenced chargeback time limits and reasons and said previous decisions 
from this service said chargeback should be attempted where rights exist and theres 
a chance of success. 
- Mr L referred to a news article and said an investigation showed flaws in NatWests 
monitoring systems and failure to follow good industry practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
I should point out to Mr L that Im required to consider the individual circumstances of his 
complaint and not the wider landscape of NatWests activities. So the general points he has 
raised about NatWests monitoring systems arent relevant to my consideration of his 
complaint. 
Mr L made payments to a cryptocurrency wallet in his own name and so the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code doesnt apply in this case. 
In the circumstances, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including those Mr L has referred to in his submission 
to this service) and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr L when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I 
have considered the position carefully.
Did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr L made were unusual or uncharacteristic. Having 
considered Mr Ls account activity in the months before the scam I agree with the 
investigator the scam payments werent unusual or uncharacteristic.
Mr L started to make regular payments to C in November 2020. He made the following 
genuine payments before the scam payments:
Date Amount
24/11/20 £300
24/11/20 £200
30/11/20 £700
29/12/20 £800
29/12/20 £800
30/12/20 £650
01/03/21 £1,000
In the circumstances, Im persuaded that the early payments (of £1,000, £1,600 and £1,700) 
Mr L made to C were unremarkable and shouldnt have caused NatWest any concern, This 
is particularly the case given that Mr L made a payment of £10,000 to a genuine investment 
company on 1 April 2021. Mr L also made high value transfers to other accounts including a 
transfer of over £23,000 in February 2021. 
The £15,000 payment to C on 24 May 2021 was higher than previous payments to C. On the 
same day Mr L also made a further payment of £5,000 to C. But by this time C was an 
established payee of Mr Ls that he had made a number of payments to. And in the days 
before Mr L made two payments totalling £20,000, a transfer to another account of £15,000, 
and two transfers of £10,000 on the same day. So large value transactions and multiple 
payments to the same payee werent unusual. Even between the scam payments Mr L made high value payments. For example, he made 
two payments to an investment company, each of £8,000 on 21 June 2021. So, given 
everything Ive said, the later payments were also not unusual or out of character. 
Mr L has raised various points about the fact that NatWest didnt raise a chargeback. 
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. But the payments 
Mr L made to C in this case were faster payments and so are not covered by the chargeback 
scheme (and in any event Mr L received the service he expected from C so a chargeback 
claim wouldnt be successful even if hed paid C by card). In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that NatWest acted reasonably in not making a chargeback claim. Mr L has also quoted S75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1975, but this only applies to credit card payments so isnt 
relevant here. 
Overall
Im sorry Mr L has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam that has had a significant impact on him, but I cant reasonably hold NatWest 
responsible for Mr Ls loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman