DRN-2665563
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) automatically renewed 
his van insurance policy and is now seeking payment from him for the time he was insured. 
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. I wont be addressing each 
point that has been made, instead Ill concentrate on those which I feel are the most relevant 
to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr B took out a policy online in 2019. When taking out that policy he was made 
aware the payment details he had provided would be saved so an automatic renewal 
of the policy could be offered. 
There are requirements placed on insurers around policy renewals and the 
information that should be provided to customers. UKI wrote to Mr B one month 
before his policy was to be renewed and again just before the renewal date. UKI 
hasnt been able to provide the actual letters that were sent to Mr B, only samples. 
However, Im satisfied they would have been a fair reflection of what was sent, given 
what Ive mentioned above. UKI has provided a screen shot from its system showing 
the address the letters were sent to and that they were dispatched. Im satisfied on 
the balance of probabilities the letters were sent by UKI.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive them, however I dont have to satisfy myself of 
this. Im persuaded UKI sent them to the correct address and therefore it did what it 
needed to do to make Mr B aware his policy was to be renewed. 
UKI has only charged Mr B for the number of days he was provided with insurance, I 
think this is reasonable.
I appreciate Mr B said he didnt want the policy however he didnt let UKI know this. 
He hadnt insured elsewhere and while hes explained he wasnt using his van, it 
wasnt registered as SORN. These are two scenarios where I couldve asked UKI to 
consider not pursuing Mr B for the outstanding amount.  
I realise Mr B feels strongly he shouldnt be charged for a policy he didnt want; 
however, I dont think UKI did anything wrong here. Mr B has also questioned if UKI 
wouldve tried to avoid paying out on a claim as he hadnt paid. While I cant say for 
certain what may have happened, in my experience where insurance is in place, an 
insurer will deduct any outstanding premium from a claim amount.
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman