DRN-4350031
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Flex Plus packaged bank account, which he took out in August 2014.
Mr D says amongst other things the account was mis-sold because he needed it to get an 
overdraft, he was not aware of his other options and he did not need or use the benefits that 
the account came with.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ds complaint and he concluded that Nationwide had 
not mis-sold the account. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the 
complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having looked at everything that Mr D and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr D was given a fair choice as to whether to take out the 
account. I can see that Mr D had held a fee free account with an overdraft prior to the Flex 
Plus so I think that he wouldve been aware that free accounts existed with overdrafts and 
were an option for him. I also cant see that Mr Ds overdraft was increased at the time the 
account was taken out. So given this I cant see why Mr D would have thought he had to 
change his account to get an overdraft that he already held. That said at the time the 
account was taken one of the benefits were that daily overdraft fees were waived for the first 
three months of holding the account and after this point the first £100 of his overdraft would 
be fee free. So, I think this may have been one of the reasons that Mr D took out the 
account. Overall, I think that he was given a fair choice when taking out the Flex Plus 
account.
From what both parties have said I think that this sale was carried out on an information only 
basis. This means that Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or 
any of the individual benefits it included, were right for Mr D. However, Nationwide was 
required to present Mr D with the important information about the account and associated 
benefits, so that he could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
Mr D say he was not made aware of the benefits of the account and he has never used 
them. Mr D has not explained why he cant use any of the benefits, but I am satisfied that 
they would have been explained during the sale of the account and the literature sent to him 
afterwards. Given that I am satisfied that he knew he did not have to have the account it was 
ultimately his choice as to whether keeping the account was right for him. I accept that Mr D 
may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the Flex Plus account came 
with. But I cant see anything specific that Mr D was not told that I think wouldve altered his 
decision to take out the account. 
With the benefit of hindsight, it may seem as if agreeing to the Flex Plus account did not 
provide Mr D value for money. But ultimately, I think that Mr D agreed to the account 
knowing he did not have to, after being given enough information to decide whether it was 
right for him. So, I cant say that it was mis-sold in this instance. I therefore dont think it 
would be appropriate to ask Nationwide to refund the fees that he has paid for the account.
So, taking everything into account, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the Flex Plus 
account or acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman