DRN-3795149
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Z, complains about various problems following TSB Bank 
Plcs April 2018 IT changes.
Z is represented in this complaint by its solicitor.
What happened
Zs representatives told us:
At the beginning of April 2018, it banked with TSB. Towards the end of April 2018, 
TSB carried out changes to its IT systems  and those changes had a significant 
impact on Z.
Z lost access to its online banking facility for nearly two weeks. Z relied heavily on 
online banking to make around 200 payments a month, so having to make payments 
over the phone or by visiting the local TSB branch was inconvenient and caused 
delays to payments.
Even after online banking was restored, Z was no longer able to use some of the 
features offered by its third party accounting software. Those features were important 
to the efficiency of Zs accounts staff.
For several months after the IT changes, Z could not set up new payees online. It set 
up an average of ten new payees each month, but setting up each one took around 
20 minutes longer than the time it would have taken using online banking. TSB 
eventually set up a system where Z could email the bank with details of new payees, 
but even then, Z was unable to control exactly when payees were set up. That 
prevented Z from running in its usual efficient manner.
TSB also changed the amount Z could pay out per day through online banking
Zs staff were able to see details of an unrelated customers account under Zs 
business profile  and so they are concerned that other people might be able to see 
Zs information.
Ultimately, Z had no option but to move to a different bank. This in itself caused 
difficulties, and resulted in the restructuring of one of Zs departments  and required 
Z to make a redundancy payment to a member of staff.
Both parties accept that TSBs service has been poor. The dispute now is about the 
appropriate level of compensation. TSB considers that it should pay £1,500 for 
inconvenience, plus £50 to cover the cost of phone calls, but it does not agree that its errors 
caused Z financial losses. Zs directors consider that an award in the region of £190,000 
would be more appropriate.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but she didnt recommend that TSB 
increase its offer. Briefly, she said:
She didnt think TSBs errors had caused Z to suffer financial losses. She 
acknowledged that Zs representative had said Zs staff had to work over 700 
additional hours as a direct result of TSBs failings, but she hadnt seen evidence to 
persuade her that such a substantial amount of extra work had been involved. In 
particular, the contracts Z had provided for its additional temporary staff werent 
enough to show that those people were employed to deal with the issues Z faced 
following TSBs IT issues.
Z has provided emails from its former clients, terminating their contracts with Z. But 
she didnt think there was enough evidence to show TSBs IT issues had caused 
those clients to move away from Z. She noted that not all of the emails mentioned 
banking problems, and those that did also mentioned other issues with Z. 
Similarly, she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that Z had lost the 
opportunity to make sales commission because of TSBs errors, nor was there 
sufficient evidence to show that Z had made a financial loss because of the data 
issues.
However, she accepted that TSBs errors had caused Z a significant amount of 
inconvenience. As examples  but not an exhaustive list  Z didnt have online 
access to its bank account for nearly two weeks, when online banking was restored, 
it was often logged out without warning, and there were difficulties in setting up new 
payees. In respect of the payees, she thought that TSB had quickly set up a viable 
alternative  for Zs employees to email payee details to TSB staff  but she still 
accepted that the issue had caused considerable inconvenience.
She didnt think TSB was required to ensure compatibility with Zs third party 
accounting software, so she didnt recommend that it pay compensation for that 
issue. She also thought TSB was entitled to set limits on the amounts of the faster 
payments Z made through online banking.
The Financial Ombudsman Service cannot make an award to Z for the distress 
suffered by its staff. The complainant here is Z, and she explained that as a limited 
company Z is not itself capable of suffering distress.
Finally, she didnt think TSB should be required to pay compensation for the 
consequences of Zs decision to move to another bank.
Overall, she thought TSBs offer to pay a total of £1,550 represented fair and 
reasonable compensation.
Zs representative told us that Z did not accept our investigators findings, and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Zs directors, but having done so there is very little I can add 
to what our investigator has already said.Some of the changes Z complains about were changes TSB was entitled to make. I agree 
with our investigator that TSB was not required to ensure that its systems were compatible 
with the third party accounting software, nor was it required to allow Z to make faster 
payments of the amount Z wanted using online banking.
However, it is clear that the difficulties Z experienced with accessing its online banking were 
the result of TSBs April 2018 IT changes. It is not in dispute that TSBs online banking 
facilities performed poorly (or not at all) for a period of several weeks. But I have not seen 
evidence to persuade me that TSBs errors caused the losses Z claims.
I acknowledge that Zs representatives feel strongly that £1,550 is nowhere near sufficient 
compensation for everything that Z has been through. But having considered all the 
evidence, and applied my own judgement, I think the offer TSB has already made is fair. 
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, TSB must pay Z £1,550.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount TSB Bank Plc has already offered represents fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman