DRN-3818307
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in October 2018. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable under the Act for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mr C says the installer misled him into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator accepted that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr C and uphold the complaint. Ikano did not agree, and so 
the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly and on the same page, and the benefits 
simply did not begin to approach the cost.
The contract consists of two pages. The first page has Mr Cs name and address, and some 
technical details about the panels and how much energy they would generate. All of the 
financial information is on the second page, which Mr C has signed at the bottom. At the top 
of this page it adds up the total estimated income and savings which the panels were 
expected to make, and gives this total as two figures indicating the bottom and top ends of a 
range; the higher figure or maximum expected benefit is £490.09.
Further down the page it gives the cash price of the panels, which was £8,700. And Mr C 
has signed just below that.
Our adjudicator said that this document did not provide Mr C with enough information to 
compare the cost and benefit of the panels, because it did not say how long the loan period 
was, or how much interest there was on the loan. That is true, but I dont think it matters. 
I have no doubt that Mr C still understood that the term of the loan was ten years. And if we 
ignore the interest on the loan and just consider the cash price, it would have been quite 
obvious that one tenth of the cash price would be £870, which is far more than the total 
financial benefit in the first year, £490.09. So I think there was enough information on this 
page for Mr C to clearly see for himself that the panels would not generate enough income 
and savings to pay for themselves (let alone total amount repayable under the loan). As 
I have said, this document was signed by Mr C immediately below those figures, and so 
I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr C about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and I dont think it is plausible that the salesman told him otherwise.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
My provisional findings
Neither party replied to my provisional findings, so there is no reason for me to depart from 
them, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman