DRN-1556304
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a credit card in December 2002. Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited 
"CSOL" (trading as Egg), mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 2002. The policy was 
added to Mr S credit card account when he applied for the card online. The policy cost 74p 
per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would repay 
10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months. The policy  
was cancelled in June 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think CSOL made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI, and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen copies of the internet 
screens in use in 2002  the ones Mr S is likely to have seen when he applied for his credit 
card. And theres a section specifically relating to PPI. This section of the application form 
shows that Mr S wouldve had two, equally prominent choices; he couldve selected yes to 
purchase PPI; and he couldve selected no to decline PPI. And he wouldve had to choose 
one of these two options before moving to the next stage of the application. So Im satisfied 
the policy was optional.
Ive also seen a copy of the internal system records that record what information Mr S input 
when he made his card application. This includes details of his employer; his salary; his 
email address; his mothers maiden name  and I can see he chose to buy PPI. And as it 
appeared on his monthly statements, had it been added to his account without either his 
knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected him to query and complain about it in the first 
few months following the opening of his credit card account. And Ive seen no evidence that 
he did.
CSOL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S - he chose to buy it himself online. So CSOL didnt 
have to check that the PPI was right for him. But it did have to give him enough information 
about the policy so he could decide for himself if he wanted it. Its possible the information CSOL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  he told us he was employed and in good 
health  so it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable at the time. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said about the sale of the PPI but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman