DRN-2136087
The complaint
Mr M complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited ("SLP") failed to act on his instructions 
in a timely manner.
What happened
I have previously issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. The second 
provisional decision was issued in August 2020 and I summarise it below.
Mr M held pension savings with SLP in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
arrangement. Whilst the majority of those savings were managed by a third party Mr M 
retained some of his pension in cash. In March 2019 he discussed with SLP whether he 
would be able to hold some of that cash in US Dollars (USD) rather than Sterling. SLP 
advised Mr M that would be possible, and the steps he would need to take to make the 
transfer.
Around two weeks later Mr M called SLP to make the transfer. He asked for £50,000 to 
be transferred into USD and the call handler provider Mr M with information about the 
current exchange rate. He ended the call by telling Mr M that he'd "get that actioned 
today". And he confirmed with Mr M that he would receive confirmation of the transfer by 
email when it had been completed.
The following day SLP called Mr M to inform him it was about the make the transfer but 
had noticed that the exchange rate had deteriorated since his original call. It asked for 
confirmation whether Mr M still wished to proceed with the transfer.
Mr M indicated that he didn't wish to make the transfer at that day's exchange rate. But 
he considered that SLP had agreed to make the transfer at the rate given to him on his 
original call. When SLP declined to make the transfer at that rate he made a formal 
complaint.
I thought that a strict interpretation of the terms and conditions suggested that SLP was 
entitled to process transactions later than the day they were received. But I also thought 
that the call handler, when Mr M gave his instruction for the transaction, failed to make 
him aware that it might not be processed immediately.
Although Mr M had asked for an indicative rate for a USD transfer around two weeks 
before I didnt think that meant he should have been aware, or that it was made clear, 
that the rate he was given when instructing the transaction was similarly indicative.
I accepted that Mr M held funds outside his SIPP. And that if needed he could instead 
have used some of these funds to increase his holding in USD. So I concluded that not 
only had SLP failed to provide Mr M with sufficient information about when his instruction 
would be processed, but that Mr M would have done something different if hed been 
given better information. And so hed have ensured he benefitted from the exchange rate 
on that day. So I thought Mr M had lost out because of the poor information he was given 
and that SLP needed to pay him some compensation.
Mr M has told us that he accepts the conclusions I reached in my second provisional 
decision. SLP does not. And it has provided me with some further comments. Although 
I am only summarising here what SLP has said, I have considered its entire response 
carefully before writing this decision.
SLP is naturally disappointed by my provisional findings and considers that I have 
proposed awarding compensation to Mr M even though no loss was actually incurred. It 
considers that it has acted in line with its terms and conditions and clearly documented 
procedures, and has provided me with a further copy of the relevant documents. It 
remains of the opinion that Mr M was clearly aware that the exchange rates quoted are 
indicative and not guaranteed.
SLP says that it advised Mr M of the change in the exchange rate and sought his further 
authority to proceed at the new rate. Since Mr M then withdrew his instruction it thinks his 
only loss was one of expectation  it says he wasnt denied the opportunity to make other 
investments. And SLP says that even if Mr M had decided to make the transfer to USD 
outside his SIPP he would still have needed to withdraw the necessary funds from the 
SIPP. That would have incurred an income tax liability, and would still have been subject 
to the same processing timescales meaning it couldnt have been completed on the 
same day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my decision on this complaint remains as set out in my second provisional 
decision. But I do wish to comment on the points that SLP has raised in response.
As I said in my provisional decision I thought that SLP had acted in line with its published 
terms and conditions. But I thought that the phone call Mr M had with SLP, during which he 
gave his instruction for the transaction, needed to be considered alongside those terms. And 
I still dont think that the call handler made it sufficiently clear to Mr M about the basis on 
which the instruction would be processed. I think that call should be the over-riding source of 
the reasonable expectation Mr M would have about when his instruction would be 
implemented. And what he was told was that it would be actioned today.
I think it is unfair to suggest that Mr M was clearly aware that any rates quoted were 
indicative. SLP has provided a recording of the call during which Mr M was told that the rates 
had changed. There is no doubt in my mind that Mr M was shocked to hear that the rate hed 
previously been quoted was only indicative. And the fact that he has made this complaint 
further underlines that his understanding was that SLP had fixed the rate at which the 
transaction would be completed.
I think SLP has misunderstood what I said in my second provisional decision about the 
alternative actions Mr M could have taken. In that decision I said that Mr Ms testimony was 
that he holds greater cash deposits outside his SIPP than within it. So there would have 
been no need for Mr M to make a withdrawal from his SIPP in order to complete the 
transaction with his bank. I think that, if SLP had given him better information, that is what he 
would have done and so his loss can be quantified  I dont think it is simply a loss of 
expectation. 
Putting things rightIt is difficult for me to put Mr M back into the position he would have been if the transaction 
had taken place on the date it was originally instructed. Whilst I could direct that the 
transaction should be completed at the rate described on the telephone call that would not 
fairly reflect what might have happened to that currency over the following year. As Mr M 
declined to proceed with the transaction at the revised rate he didnt crystallise any loss at 
that point.
I think the fairest way to resolve this matter is to look at the difference between the exchange 
rate that was quoted on the original call, and the rate that was offered to Mr M the following 
day. On the original call Mr M said that he wanted to exchange £50,000 to USD. He was 
quoted an exchange rate of 1.3332. He was told that the currency he would purchase would 
be $66,660. The following day the rate had fallen to 1.2829. He was told he would now be 
able to purchase $64,065.
As I said earlier, Mr M did not proceed with the transaction. But if he had done so, it would 
have cost him an additional £1,960 to receive the same amount of USD as hed been quoted 
the day before. I think that is a reasonable proxy for the loss Mr M has suffered. 
So I think SLP should increase Mr Ms GBP cash holding by £1,960 with effect from 
28 March 2019. And should there have been any further investments from Mr Ms GBP 
account since that date a proportion of the additional £1,960, equal to the proportion £51,960 
formed of his whole GBP fund at 28 March, should receive a similar investment return.
I am not making any further award to Mr M for any inconvenience hes been caused by the 
poor information he was given. Nor am I making any direction about any charges Mr M might 
incur if he decides to move his SIPP to another administrator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Suffolk Life Pensions Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman