DRN-4432227
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited was negligent when it didnt tell him 
that he didnt have travel insurance with his electronic money account.
What happened
Mr B upgraded his account with Wirecard, which was trading as Curve, to a Curve Black in 
2018. At the time, Mr B resided in a country Ill refer to as S. 
The Curve Black account came with various benefits, one of which was travel insurance. In 
January 2020, Mr B contacted Wirecard because he wanted to make a claim on the travel 
insurance policy, but he couldnt find a policy number for the cover to make the claim. 
It later transpired that Mr B didnt have the travel insurance benefit with his account. 
Wirecard says thats because when he took out the account, residents of S werent entitled 
to this benefit.
Mr B wasnt happy with this. He explained that hed notified Wirecard in 2019 that he resided 
in a country Ill refer to as I. The travel insurance benefit that came with the account was 
available to residents of I, and so he should have been covered under a travel insurance 
policy. 
Mr B also thought that Wirecard had confirmed that he did in fact have cover under the travel 
insurance policy. 
Because of this, Mr B says hes lost out 500 euros  which is the amount of the claim he 
wanted to make. 
Wirecard upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and credited £100 to his account for some of the 
customer service issues he experienced  mainly because Mr B had expressed concerns 
about insurance cover at an earlier date, and Wirecard didnt tell him at this point that he 
wasnt covered. However, it explained that the cover depended on the country of residence 
at the time of taking out the account. And because Mr B resided in S at the time of taking out 
the account, he wasnt eligible for the insurance benefit  regardless of whether he changed 
his country of residence at a later date.
Unhappy with Wirecards response, Mr B asked this service to look into the matter. 
An Investigator considered what both parties had said, but they didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said I think Curve has acted fairly in this case, they could have asked more questions 
when Mr B brought up the subject  however I also think Mr B could have done more to 
confirm the insurance instead of assuming he was covered. As there has not been any 
details provided by Curve in relation to the travel insurance I cannot ask them to cover this 
claim. So, taking everything into consideration I think the outcome offered by Curve is 
reasonable and wont be asking them to do anything further in this case. 
Mr B didnt agree and felt that Wirecard should be held accountable for the matter. And so 
he asked for an Ombudsman to consider his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to him, however I will explain my 
reasons for this below. 
I dont think its in dispute here that when Mr B first took out the account, he was a resident 
of S, and because of this, he wasnt eligible for the travel insurance benefit that came with 
the account. But Mr B feels that when he let Wirecard know that he was a resident of I, he 
should have received this benefit. 
Wirecard has confirmed that it is the country of residence when applying for the account that 
would determine what benefits he got with the account. Given that he was a residence of S, 
he didnt get the travel insurance cover, and didnt receive any policy documents relating to 
the cover at this time. Wirecard has also explained that by updating an address to a country 
where travel insurance is a benefit wouldnt automatically mean that cover would be 
provided.
Ive thought about if it was reasonable of Mr B to have thought he had cover in place when 
he updated his address to I, based on Wirecards actions. Looking at the correspondence 
Mr B had with Wirecard, I havent seen anything where Wirecard has confirmed Mr B had a 
policy in place. Both parties have also confirmed Mr B wasnt provided with any policy 
documents in relation to the cover either. So I cant fairly conclude here that Wirecard 
mistakenly told Mr B he had a policy in place. 
Its clear from the correspondence Mr B had with Wirecard, and in the context of this 
complaint, that Mr B was very keen to have his residency address changed to I. Wirecard 
explained that he could only have a shipping or billing address on the account. Mr B again 
made it clear he resided in I, but he didnt ever check with Wirecard that he would be entitled 
to the travel insurance benefit now he had moved. Nor was it ever clear to Wirecard that this 
could be the reason Mr B was keen to update his country of residency.
I can see that Mr B did ask WireCard some specific questions about the benefits of the 
account. Mr B intended to switch his account from a business account to a personal account 
and with this in mind he asked Will I loose [sic] the present Curve Black Status? I have a 
free Curve Black due to being member from before new products were launched. Will any of 
the insurances that come with the card change?
Wirecard responded to this and said Currently, in terms of features, there's no difference 
between personal and business Curve cards. The Insurance benefits are also the same 
(either you hold a personal or business card).
Wirecard has accepted that it could have done better here and looked into Mr Bs account to 
see what cover he already had. In my view, Mr B asked a general question about the 
account, and the response he received from Wirecard was general - and correct. 
I can understand why Mr B might have thought that moving country of residency would mean 
he would benefit from travel cover, but I cant fairly conclude that he was ever told he had 
cover or sent confirmation of cover. Im also of the view that Mr B could have contacted Wirecard to check if he had cover in place before travelling. So, taking everything into 
account, I wont be upholding this complaint. And I think the £100 Wirecard has already 
offered Mr B is enough to put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman