DRN-4012100
The complaint
Miss M complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (Berkshire)
unfairly declined her claim following the theft of her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss M returned from holiday to find that her car wasnt parked where she
had left it. She contacted Berkshire to make a claim for the theft of her vehicle.
Berkshire declined the claim. It says Miss M failed to notify it of changes to the information
she provided when her policy was first taken out. It says there are inconsistencies within the
statements it obtained from her and her partner. Berkshire also says it had been unable to
ascertain the whereabouts of a missing key for Miss Ms car. Because of this it says its
unable to indemnify Miss M for her loss.
Miss M says Berkshires response is unfair. She referred the matter to our service, but our
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says Berkshire had assessed the claim fairly
relying on the opinion of expert investigators. He thought its decision to decline the claim
was reasonable and in line with its policy terms.
Miss M disagreed and asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Berkshire has relied on several points in its decline decision. These are largely based on the
investigation reports provided by the agent it used to assess the claim. This involved
interviews with both Miss M and later with her partner. Ive read the reports alongside the
letters Berkshire sent to Miss M, to understand the reasons for its decline decision.
In its decline letter Berkshire says Miss Ms declared annual mileage is 15,000 miles. It
points to mileage shown on historical MOT tests that reveal a higher mileage than this was
covered between August 2019 and August 2020. And in the following policy year up to
August 2021. I can see from the records the mileage was around 26,000 and 20,000
respectively for these periods.
This shows Miss M had covered more than 15,000 miles in previous years. But the theft was
reported in March 2022. I cant see that Berkshire has shown Miss M covered more than
15,000 miles in the policy year relevant to her claim.
In its decline letter Berkshire points to Miss Ms comments, from a signed statement on 1
April 2022, that she commuted to one place of work every day. It says, you have
volunteered that you [sic] traveling to a place of work which would be classed as commuting.
Also, you have failed to declare an increased annual mileage.
As discussed, I cant see that Berkshire has shown an increased annual mileage for the
relevant policy year. Looking at Miss Ms policy certificate, applicable at the time of her
claim, it says commuting and business use are permitted. Based on this information I cant
see that Miss M was using her car contrary to the terms of her policy. So, I dont think this
gives a reason to decline the claim.
Berkshires decline letter refers to Miss Ms statement that she received two keys when she
bought the car. Also, that one key was broken and is no longer in her possession. I can see
from the investigation report that Miss M told Berkshire she had snapped the key when
opening a tin of pain. This happened not long after she had bought the vehicle. I understand
from her submissions to our service that this was around four years ago. Miss M told
Berkshire she no longer has the key and didnt obtain a replacement.
Berkshire says not being able to confirm the whereabouts of the missing key is a factor in its
decline decision.
Ive thought about this point. Miss M told Berkshires investigator when first interviewed that
the key was snapped some time ago and she no longer had it. Her position on this didnt
change. I note Berkshires investigator raised concerns that this account may not be true and
that the key couldve been left in or around the car. Berkshire refers to the following policy
exclusion in relation to this point:
Loss of or damage to your car when it is unoccupied unless all windows, doors and roof
openings are closed and locked and all keys needed to lock the car are in your possession
or the person authorised to use your car.
There is no reason to consider the car was left unsecured. Miss M confirms in her statement
that it was locked, as she heard the locking mechanism engage. Miss M gave a plausible
explanation for why there is no spare key. I can understand why Berkshire had wanted to
query this point, but I dont think its been shown that Miss M had left a key in or around the
car that would have assisted in it being stolen.
The records also show that Miss M recalls finding a door handle from her car at the location
she had left it. Berkshires investigator says Miss Ms model of car is prone to theft and is
commonly stolen. It also says the presence of the door handle potentially suggests that
access had been gained by force. Berkshires investigation report says:
We are aware that this model of vehicle can also be stolen, without a key, via access to the
OBD port once forced entry is used to gain access to the vehicle.
Based on this information, this type of car is targeted by thieves and can be driven away
once access is gained by force. The handle Miss M says she found at the scene suggests
this is how her car was taken. I acknowledge the point Berkshire has made about the key,
but I dont think its shown sufficient reason to decline this claim based on this point.
Berkshire says it isnt clear why Miss M parked her car 0.8 miles from her partners house.
This was prior to going on holiday with her partner and two children. It says there is
unrestricted parking on residential streets close to her partners address. It also says the
area where Miss M left her car is less secure and has limited spaces for parking. It saysemployees at a local garage, also park on the same stretch of road when its car park is full.
Suggesting there wouldnt have been a space for Miss M to park in. Berkshires investigator
asked the garage manager and employees if they had seen Miss Ms car parked in the
vicinity. It says they hadnt and there was no CCTV footage to look at.
Berkshire says Miss Ms car is a distinctive model. It says the garage employees told it they
wouldve noticed the car based on its trim markings.
Miss M says that residents dont like other vehicles being parked in the locality, which is why
she parked where she did. She says neighbours have left notes on her partners windscreen
relating to this point previously. In her statement to Berkshires investigator, she explained
that she had parked in this area adjacent to the garage before. Miss M reiterates this in her
submissions to our service saying that she has left her car in this area overnight previously.
I can see that Miss Ms partner also commented, in her statement, that local residents are
upset by other vehicles parking on the street due to the limited available parking. And I note
Miss Ms comments that when she returned to where her car had been parked after her
holiday, there was no other car occupying the now vacant space. She says this shows
spaces are available for parking in this area.
I also note Berkshires view that the area where Miss M parked is more of an industrial area.
I think this is reasonably supported by the photographs supplied.
Ive thought about Berkshires point that there is unrestricted parking available on the streets
closer to Miss Ms partners house. But I can understand Miss Ms reasoning for not wanting
to leave her car on a street, for an extended period, where this might upset the local
residents close to her partners home. I can understand Berkshires concern that the area
she chose to park in was potentially less secure than other on street parking. But I dont
think its shown that Miss M acted contrary to her policy terms when deciding to park where
she did. Miss M confirms the car was locked as required by the conditions of her cover. Im
also not persuaded that Berkshire has shown it wouldve been unlikely for Miss M to have
found a parking space where she says she did.
It isnt known when Miss Ms car was stolen. Only that it wasnt there when she returned
from holiday. It could be that the car was stolen shortly after it was parked. So, although I
acknowledge Berkshires point that the garage employees dont recall seeing Miss Ms car,
this could conceivably be because it wasnt there long.
In Berkshires investigation report, concerns were raised that Miss M couldve parked on her
partners driveway. Alternatively, that she couldve used her car to drive to the holiday
destination or parked her car at her home.
Miss M says her partner lives at her fathers address. And that her partner parks her car
across the entrance to the driveway. She says this wasnt an option for her, as access would
be needed to the driveway by her partners father. Miss M also says they went on holiday in
her partners car as Miss Ms car only has two doors not four. She says this will have caused
issues when travelling with two children. Miss M explains that she drove to where her partner
lives, before going on holiday, as she lives some distance away from her home.
Ive thought about Miss Ms statement and comments, alongside the concerns raised by
Berkshire. I can understand why the business has highlighted these issues, and why it
wanted to query certain points with Miss M. But having considered this, Im not persuaded
that its shown the account of where she parked her car, and the reasons for this, are
implausible or reason to decline her claim.I note that when asked how she got from where she parked to her partners house, Miss M
told Berkshire her partner had picked her up. When interviewing her partner, Berkshire was
told Miss M had walked to her partners house. Clearly there is a discrepancy here. I note
Miss M later told Berkshire her partner could be right about this. In her submission to our
service, she refers to a disorder that can impact her memory, particularly around times of
stress. She says the theft of her car was stressful and this could explain why she said she
had been picked up.
Ive thought about this point carefully. Berkshire refers to the following policy term in its
decline letter:
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate
information.
There is a discrepancy between Miss Ms recollection and her partners account of whether
she walked to the house or was picked up. Miss M may have been confused on this point
and incorrectly said she was picked up. But I dont think this is reason alone for Berkshire to
determine that Miss Ms account is unreliable.
I note Miss M raised concerns with the standard of service she received, and the time taken
for Berkshire to handle her claim.
I think its reasonable to expect Berkshire to be able to investigate and validate a claim.
There were issues with Miss Ms account that it reasonably wanted to verify further. This
took some time due to the need to instruct its agent to carry out interviews, visit the theft site
and provide a report. However, this did take a number of months to complete, which I think
could reasonably have happened more quickly. Miss M also refers to requests for updates
that werent acted upon. I can see from Berkshires complaint response that it accepts it
didnt provide the contact requested. It says the service Miss M received wasnt fair and that
it has provided feedback to the team involved.
Based on the evidence provided, I think Berkshires assessment of the standard of service
Miss M received is fair. I also think she should reasonably have expected a swifter
conclusion to her claim. Miss M has also been without her car or a settlement payment to
buy another for a significant period. This has caused Miss M inconvenience and distress. In
these circumstances I think Berkshire should acknowledge this by paying Miss M
compensation.
In summary I dont think Berkshire acted fairly in declining Miss Ms claim for the reasons it
gave. It should now settle her claim in line with the remaining policy terms without relying on
the policy exclusions set out in its decline decision. Any settlement payment should include
8% simple interest from the date of the loss. Because of issues highlighted here, Berkshire
should also pay Miss M £350 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Berkshire should:
settle Miss Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms without relying on the
exclusions used in its decline decision and pay 8% simple interest from the date of
the loss until the claim is paid on any settlement amount. *If Berkshire considers that
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate; and
pay Miss M £350 compensation for the inconvenience and distress it caused her.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Berkshire didnt respond with any further comments or information. 
Miss M responded to say she has GAP insurance in place and has recently received a 
diagnosis for a health condition she suffers from. But Miss Ms response is that she accepts 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions (requiring further consideration) or 
provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd should:
settle Miss Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms without relying on the
exclusions used in its decline decision and pay 8% simple interest from the date of
the loss until the claim is paid on any settlement amount. *If Berkshire considers that
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it
should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate; and
pay Miss M £350 compensation for the inconvenience and distress it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman