The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr V says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr V applied for mortgage from RBS in 2009. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy cost Mr V £16.02 per month. The policy covered Mr V against not being able to 
work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the 
policy could have paid a monthly benefit of £294.01 for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr V disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
RBS had to make it clear the policy was optional.
RBS has been able to show us a copy of the mortgage offer. I can see it states that no 
insurance needed to be taken out with RBS and that only buildings insurance was 
compulsory which could be taken out with another insurer. In addition the mortgage offer 
described the PPI policy as optional.
Ive also seen a copy of a form titled Giving Your Agreement. I can see Mr V declined life 
assurance and RBS home insurance but did agree to the PPI. This form shows Mr V was 
able to decline some products offered by RBS. This form has been signed by Mr V. The 
mortgage application form also gave the option to decline PPI.
I also note the PPI policy remained in place for many years during which time the premiums 
would have been paid either by direct debit from Mr Vs current account or with the monthly 
mortgage repayment. And during those years I think its likely Mr V would have received 
some documentation about the policy from time to time.
So taking all this into account I think it is likely Mr V was made aware of the policy and chose 
to buy it knowing he didnt have to.
DRN-1891284From experience I am aware that RBS did not generally give a personal recommendation to 
buy this type of policy so it didnt have to take steps to make sure it was right for Mr V.
Instead it should have given Mr V enough clear, fair and not mis-leading information to 
enable him to decide for himself if it was right for him.
I dont know what was said in the meeting so its possible that RBS didnt give all the 
information it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need 
to decide whether or not Mr V would have changed his mind about buying the policy if he 
been given better or clearer information. I cant say Mr V would have done. I say this for the 
following reasons:
Mr V was taking out a mortgage for the first time and in his own name. So, hed be solely 
responsible for making the repayments. And from what Ive seen of the paperwork he was 
interested in this type of cover.
Mr V wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example he 
had no medical conditions that would not have been covered. So hed have been able to 
make a claim if he had needed to.
The PPI could have paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr V could not work, and Mr V has 
told us his employer didnt pay any sick pay. Mr V has also told us he had no other 
resources such as savings he could fall back on. So I think hed have found it useful if he 
couldnt work.
The policy would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr V lost his job.
Ive not seen any evidence that the premiums were not affordable.
Mr V has pointed out that the policy had a 14-day deferral period, meaning he could not 
claim for the first 14 days of being unable to work. And after one claim, hed have had to 
return to work for 30 days before he could claim again. Mr V says this wasnt pointed out to 
him and because he had no means to cover the deferral period it would have put him off 
buying it.
Ive thought about this. The vast majority of mortgage PPI policies have some form of 
deferral period. These can range up to 90 days. The deferral period acts similar to the 
excess on a home or car insurance. If the policy had a zero-deferral period it is likely the 
premiums would become very much more expensive as the policyholder would be able to 
claim for every day they had off sick, even if it were for a relatively minor ailment. I agree 
with Mr V that if the policy RBS had sold him had a long deferral period such as 90 days it 
would likely have put someone in his situation off buying it.
But this particular policy, in my view had a relatively low deferral period of only 14 days. And 
although Mr V would likely have found it difficult to manage for the first two weeks without 
pay, I think he would have valued the monthly benefit if he could not return to work for 
longer. So I dont agree that details of the 14-day deferral period would have put Mr V off 
buying the policy.
In summary, I think its likely RBS gave Mr V a fair choice over buying the policy. And even if 
RBS had given him all the information it should have, hed have still gone ahead and taken it 
out.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman