DRN-4483750
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Trading Limited (RTL) unfairly closed his trading account, 
which led to him incurring losses.
Revolut Trading Limited are an appointed representative of Resolution Compliance Limited.
What happened
Mr P held an account with Revolut Bank UAB, based in Lithuania. As part of this account, he 
also had access to an RTL account, which he used to invest some of his funds. But in 
September 2022 his Revolut and RTL accounts were restricted.
In October 2022 Revolut contacted him to say they would be closing his account. RTL also 
sent him notification that theyd be closing the account in 60 days. They said he would have 
to liquidate his investments with them before this time was up. Mr P however contacted them 
to say he didnt want his shares to be sold, as he would be losing approximately $7,000 
USD.
On 5 December 2022 Mr Ps investment account was liquidated, and the value of the 
investments returned to him. Mr P complained to RTL, but they responded to say theyd 
closed his account in line with the terms of his account.
Mr P then referred his complaint to our service. He was also concerned he had not received 
dividends hed expected. One of our investigators looked into it but felt they couldnt see that 
RTL had demonstrated that the reason for closing his account was fair. They werent minded 
to say that RTL should cover Mr Ps investment losses, as Mr P was given ample opportunity 
to liquidate his investments himself. And they were satisfied that the dividend payments had 
been made. Overall, they thought RTL should pay Mr P £200 compensation.
Both RTL and Mr P disagreed with this. RTL said they had acted in line with the terms of 
their account. Mr P said RTL had sold his assets without his consent, and they should have 
allowed him more time to sell and get his investment back.
As Mr P and RTL didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman to decide. Another of our ombudsmen then sent both parties their 
provisional decision setting out what they were planning on deciding. For ease of reference, 
here is what they said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity Im looking solely at the actions of RTL in relation to Mr Ps trading account, and 
not any decisions made by any other firms Mr P may have had accounts with.
The terms of Mr Ps account say that they can close accounts by providing at least 30 
business days notice. And once notice has been given then the consumer must close out 
their positions  so in effect sell their assets  before the end of the notice period. No other 
instructions would be accepted, and if the positions havent been closed by the notice period, 
then RTL will be entitled to liquidate the positions without further consent being sort.
In this case RTL sent Mr P a message on 3 October 2022, giving him 60 days notice of the 
closure, which is more than the required notice. I can also see that Mr P was in contact with 
RTL about the impending closure, which tells me the notice was received and understood.
RTL arent under any specific obligation to tell Mr P the reason for closing his account and 
havent done so here. Ive considered all the available information, and on balance Im 
persuaded that it was reasonable for RTL to decide to withdraw their account with Mr P. 
Firstly, Im aware his Revolut account was closed at the same time. The closure of that 
account falls outside of the scope of our service, but I understand it has been looked at by a 
comparable Alternative Dispute Resolution scheme, who did not ask the bank to do anything 
further.
The terms of the RTL account say you require a Revolut electronic money account to pay for 
trades, and to receive any funds from the closing of positions. As the electronic account was 
closed it would seem Mr P would no longer be able to operate the RTL account. In any event 
as the RTL account was managed through the Revolut app, and this had also been 
withdrawn, then Mr P wouldnt have been able to effectively manage the investments held 
with RTL anyway. On that basis, Im persuaded that providing him notice of the closure and 
allowing him to close off his investments was appropriate. On balance, I dont see the 
closure of the account as unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr P was asking for more time before selling his assets, so that he wouldnt 
incur a loss compared to what he paid for them. But this isnt something RTL were obliged to 
provide him. The notice and subsequent communication were very clear about when the 
account would be closed, and that if the assets werent sold then they would be liquidated. 
Ive seen no indication that Mr P was trying to transfer the assets to another trading firm  
hes said he didnt have another trading account and hasnt opened one since.
As such, Im satisfied it was reasonable for RTL to liquidate Mr Ps account as they did. I can 
see the sales were carried out in line with their policies on best execution, achieving a 
reasonable price for Mr Ps assets. Im therefore satisfied theyve met their obligations to him 
and treated him fairly. I appreciate Mr P received less back than he initially paid in, but this is 
the nature of investments. I dont see it as reasonable to ask RTL to cover his losses.
Looking back through the account history, Im satisfied that Mr P has been paid the 
dividends as expected. So, I dont see that RTL need to do anything more there.
Overall, while I can see Mr P is obviously disappointed at his account being closed. But I 
cant say RTL have been unfair or unreasonable in deciding to close his account and 
liquidate his assets. As such, Im not asking them to do anything further
RTL has not responded, but Mr P has. He has made several points, of which Ill summarise 
the key points here: 
- His account was restricted without any reason in September 2022
- He has invested all his familys savings on the trading platform 
- During the time of the account restrictions his stock value fell substantially
- He asked RTL over a hundred times, and sent over 300 emails, to keep his trading 
platform open and not sell his stock automatically on or before 5 December 2022, but it didnt listen 
- Had RTL given Mr P an additional month before closing the account he would have 
recovered his investment without suffering the significant financial loss he did 
- He was forced into suffering this loss by RTLs actions
- He only got his dividends paid after chasing RTL for a month 
- Revolut didnt give him all his crypto token back when closing the account 
- He never received responses to over 100 emails in relation to his complaint
As both parties have had an opportunity to make further comments and provide any new 
evidence, and the deadline to do so has passed, I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ive done so for the same reasons 
as those in the provisional decision  as above. 
I note that Mr P feels strongly that he wasnt given reasonable opportunity to sell his shares 
around a month later from when it was closed. He says this would have led to him not 
sustaining a significant loss on their value as the financial markets had recovered. 
Ive also closely looked at RTLs terms and conditions and note that it wouldnt be able to 
continue to provide its trading account if the third-party account it was accessed through was 
closed. Thats because RTLs notice and subsequent communication were very clear about 
when the account would be closed, and that if the assets werent sold then they would be 
liquidated. 
Im also satisfied that Mr P was given reasonable notice of the accounts closure. So I dont 
think RTL did anything wrong here - though I can understand why Mr P feels so strongly 
about this given they were his familys savings. 
Im also satisfied that Mr P was paid his dividends in reasonable time given what was going 
on. 
This decision only deals with the acts and omissions of RTL, so I cant consider any 
complaint points that relate to any other business. 
Lastly, Mr P complains that he sent hundreds of emails to RTL without response. RTL was 
obligated to respond to his complaint which it did when it sent him its final response. Mr P 
was told he could refer his complaint to this service if he didnt agree with what RTL said. 
And that is what he did. So I dont think RTL has acted improperly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman