DRN-2279707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under
their home insurance policy after their property was subject to an escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D noticed that when the shower in their bathroom was used, a leak would 
appear in the hall cupboard below. They contacted Aviva. It agreed to provide a contractor to
source the leak and repair any damage caused, either by the leak or by the process of
tracing it.
Aviva asked Mr and Mrs D whether they wished to move to alternative accommodation (AA) 
while the work was being carried out. Mr and Mrs D declined the offer, preferring instead to
remain in the property and to receive a disturbance allowance of £50 a day.
Avivas contractor found a leak from a waste beneath the shower tray and also from the toilet
which therefore needed replacing. However, while drying out the property before carrying out
reinstatement works, it noted the shower tray was cracked and this was unrelated to the
claim. It said Mr and Mrs D would need to repair this. Mr and Mrs D agreed to do this
through their policy, though it involved a new claim and hence they had to pay another
excess.
Once the reinstatement works were completed, Mr and Mrs D noted that their champagne- 
coloured toilet had been replaced with a white toilet, meaning it no longer matched their
washbasin.
The day after the completion of the works, Mr and Mrs D found the shower had again
leaked. They called the contractor which arranged for someone to come round and fix the
problem.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Aviva about the fact they had been given a different coloured
toilet. Aviva said that the toilet bowl and cistern hadnt previously matched and so it had now
provided a toilet and cistern which matched each other and which also matched the white
shower tray. It pointed out that the policy didnt provide cover for matching items, meaning it
hadnt been required to replace the washbasin also.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy at Avivas response. They maintained that the toilet bowl and
cistern had previously matched and were the same colour as the washbasin. They said that
although the range had since been discontinued, a replacement in the same colour could still
be sourced. They considered the new toilet to be of inferior quality and said it had already
broken. They referred their complaint to us. They also raised concerns about the general
handling of the claim which they said had caused them to be without washing facilities for a
period of 65 days. They said this had been particularly difficult for them due to the special
needs of two of their children. They also complained that, after making another claim and
paying another excess, they later understood it hadnt been necessary to repair the shower
tray and that the crack had since reappeared in any case. And they complained that they
hadnt been given the disturbance allowance which had been promised or compensated for
the extra electricity charges which were incurred during the drying process.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
disturbance allowance
Aviva attended the property a few days after being notified of the claim. It noted that there
was a leak which became apparent whenever the shower was used. It agreed that trace and
access cover was available under the policy and that the bathroom would subsequently
need to be reinstated. It invited Mr and Mrs D to move to alternative accommodation, have a
temporary bathroom pod installed, or receive a disturbance allowance of £50 a day for the
duration of the works. I consider this was fair.
Mr and Mrs D say that they understood this payment would apply from the time of the claim
to the time the work was completed. I dont know why they would have thought this. Avivas
notes refer to this allowance being paid during the works so I consider that this was
probably how the offer was described to Mr and Mrs D. It wasnt until shortly before the work
was due to start, some three weeks after notification of the claim, that Mr and Mrs D
confirmed that, in view of their circumstances, they would like to receive the disturbance
allowance. I consider that this suggests they knew it was intended to apply only from the
start of the works.
Furthermore, I consider it was fair for Aviva to pay the allowance only during the period of
the works. I havent seen evidence that Mr and Mrs D were told not to use the shower before
the works were carried out. And the existence of the washbasin meant that, until the work
started, the property wasnt entirely without washing facilities in any case. Furthermore, even
though the policy provided cover for trace and access, it was really Mr and Mrs Ds
responsibility to fix the leak. If they considered that it was too inconvenient to wait for Avivas
contractor to find the problem, it was open to them to use their own contractor to do this.
In view of the above, I consider it was fair for Aviva to pay £50 disturbance allowance for a
period of 35 days. I note that Aviva didnt initially pay this money and so I consider it should
add interest to this amount.
toilet
Mr and Mrs D say their old toilet was champagne-coloured and matched the washbasin. It
was replaced by a white toilet which they say not only doesnt match but is inferior. Aviva
says, based on evidence provided by its contractor, that the old toilet bowl didnt match the
cistern and so it has provided them with a replacement with matching bowl and cistern,
which now also matches the white shower tray.
I havent seen evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ds old toilet was more than a standard
toilet. I dont consider they have shown that Aviva has provided a replacement of inferior
quality.
However, I consider the photographic evidence indicates that Mr and Mrs D previously had a
matching toilet and washbasin. The toilet seat was of a different colour but the bowl and
cistern matched. I understand that the particular range is no longer available. Mr and Mrs D
say that items are still available from certain suppliers. However, given that the range is
obsolete, and there is no guarantee that a replacement toilet from another supplier would
exactly match the washbasin, I consider that Aviva wasnt required to find an exact
replacement for the old toilet. It was therefore reasonable for it to instead replace it with a
white toilet. However, I consider it should have explained this to Mr and Mrs D. And it should
not have sought to justify its action by claiming that the toilet bowl and cistern werepreviously non-matching when this doesnt appear to be the case. I consider it should
compensate Mr and Mrs D for this, and I shall deal with this later on in this decision.
Furthermore, by replacing the champagne-coloured toilet with a white toilet, it meant the
toilet and washbasin were no longer matching. And while Aviva says that Mr and Mrs Ds
policy doesnt have cover for matching sets, it has long been the approach of this service
that in these situations the insurer should offer to pay a contribution to the cost (including
fitting) of replacing the undamaged items which no longer match. I consider that Aviva
should therefore pay Mr and Mrs D an amount equivalent to 50% of the cost of replacing the
washbasin.
Mr and Mrs D say that the new toilet has broken. I shall deal with this later on in this
decision.
general handling of claim
I consider that, aside from the issues noted above, Aviva generally handled the claim in a
reasonable manner. It has offered to reimburse the additional electricity costs incurred by
Mr and Mrs D during the drying process which it has estimated to be £150 and Im satisfied
this is fair, though it should add interest to this sum. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the
repair of the crack in the shower tray was unnecessary. It seems that there was a problem in
that the contractor declared the repairs to be complete but the shower was still allowing
water to escape. However, Aviva arranged for the problem to be fixed within 24 hours. I
appreciate that Mr and Mrs D found the entire period particularly stressful due to the needs
of two of their sons. However, I dont consider that there were unreasonable delays.
ongoing problems
Mr and Mrs D refer to problems which have developed since the work was completed. These
include the toilet breaking, a crack reappearing in the shower tray, a wooden panel which
has not been replaced and a concern that damp may have developed due to the further
escape of water which occurred because it seems the problem with the shower trap was not
properly attended to. They say Aviva has not responded to explain what action it intends to
take in respect of these matters. I consider that Aviva should respond to Mr and Mrs D and
that its poor communication will have been frustrating to them.
compensation
I have noted certain areas where the service from Aviva and its contractors was not as good
as it should have been. In particular, the handling of the replacement toilet and the lack of
communication over the ongoing issues. I consider that this will have caused Mr and Mrs D a
certain amount of upset for which I think Aviva should pay them £150 compensation.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs D said they had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Aviva has accepted my provisional decision, and Mr and Mrs D have offered no 
further comment, Im satisfied that this decision should stand. My provisional findings 
therefore become part of this, my final decision, which I uphold in part.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited, if it hasnt already done so, to do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs D disturbance allowance of £1,750 (£50 a day for 35 days);
pay Mr and Mrs D £150 towards the electricity costs;
pay Mr and Mrs D an amount equivalent to 50% of the cost (including fitting) of replacing 
the washbasin;
add interest to the above payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the
date work was completed on 29 July 2019 to the date of settlement (if Aviva considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if appropriate); and
pay Mr and Mrs D £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman