DRN-2370241
The complaint
 Mr R complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Hamilton Rose Wealth Management 
Limited to switch from a personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and 
invest through a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).  
What happened
Mr R was advised by Hamilton Rose in 2017 to transfer his personal pension -worth around 
£43,000- to a SIPP and use the services of a DFM. The DFM service was to be provided by 
Clear Capital Management. 
A call note in March 2017 shows that Mr R wanted to take some tax-free cash when he 
turned 55 a couple of months later, but leave the rest of his benefits invested until age 67. Mr 
R told the adviser he was risk averse and they agreed he was a cautious investor. The 
adviser noted it would be appropriate to invest a good proportion of his fund into fixed 
interest.
A charge comparison showed that Mr Rs existing plan had charges of 1.20% whilst his new 
SIPP arrangement had charges of 0.97%. The SIPP application shows Mr R paid an initial 
adviser fee of £995 to Hamilton Rose and agreed to pay an ongoing adviser charge of 
0.75%.
Mr R accepted the recommendation and transferred his pension in April 2017. He took out 
tax free cash of around £10,000 in June 2017 and left the rest in a drawdown facility. An 
annual review letter by Hamilton Rose in March 2018 said Mr R had been invested 100% 
into the Absolute Return Fixed Weight Portfolio.
In September 2018, Mr R changed advisers from Hamilton Rose to Clear Advice, a trading 
style of Clear Capital.
In 2019 Mr R, through a representative, complained about Hamilton Roses advice to Mr R. 
They said he was a low risk investor and he would have been better off staying in his 
existing plan.
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint. He said the charges had been misrepresented as 
statements showed that the new arrangement was more expensive than Mr Rs old pension 
plan. He also thought it looked like Mr R had not been invested in line with his cautious 
attitude to risk. The investigator acknowledged that Mr R likely needed to transfer in order to 
take his tax-free cash and enter a drawdown arrangement; something that wasnt available 
in his old pension plan. However, he felt Hamilton Roses investment strategy was 
unsuitable. He recommended Hamilton Rose should compare Mr Rs existing SIPP value 
with a benchmark. He said Hamilton Rose should pay Mr R £600 plus VAT that he could use 
towards new advice and £100 for the inconvenience of needing to bring this complaint.
Hamilton Rose disagreed. They said the advice to switch investments was sound at the time. 
They also pointed out that they havent been engaged with Mr R in an adviser capacity since 
2018. They felt the complaint should be directed at Clear Capital.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that this complaint should be upheld for the following reasons:
It looks like Hamilton Rose didnt include their own adviser charges of 0.75% when they 
showed Mr R a comparison of charges of his new SIPP and his old pension. The 0.97% they 
quoted only included a plan charge of 0.3%, an investment charge of 0.32% and a 
Discretionary Investment Management charge of 0.35%. So Mr Rs new arrangement was 
quite a bit more expensive than his old plan.
Mr R had a cautious attitude to risk, his funds were modest and from what Ive seen he 
wasnt an experienced investor. I dont think the additional cost of a DFM was justified in his 
circumstances.
Ive seen a list of funds that Mr R originally invested in. They include significant investment 
into high yield corporate bonds and into equity tracker funds including Asian and North 
American equities. The rest was invested into a hedged gold fund. I dont think this reflected 
the risk profile of a cautious investor like Mr R who in his risk questionnaire agreed with the 
following statements:
I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain 
about my investments.
When I am faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the 
possible losses than the possible gains.
I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in shares
With regards to his capacity for loss Mr R also said in the questionnaire that he could stand 
none or very limited losses to his investment. And looking at his circumstances I can see that 
this pension made up a large proportion of his retirement provisions.
Hamilton Rose had an obligation to make sure Mr R ended up with suitable investments for 
his circumstances. The SIPP provider has confirmed that their internal audit records show it 
was the Hamilton Rose adviser who made these initial investments. 
And even if Clear Capital had made those investments, Hamilton Rose would still hold 
responsibility here. I havent seen what due diligence they did with regards to the model 
portfolios Clear Capital offered and whether they were suitable for Mr R. They also reviewed 
Mr Rs portfolio in March 2018 and so would have known how he was invested and that the 
investments were too high risk for Mr R.
I appreciate Hamilton Rose havent been Mr Rs advisers since 2018. However, they gave 
Mr R the initial advice that has exposed him to unsuitable investments and higher charges. 
Without their advice he likely wouldnt be in the position he finds himself now. So I think its 
fair to hold them responsible for Mr Rs potential losses. I can only look at the complaint that 
has been brought to us which is against Hamilton Rose. Whether other parties  for example 
Clear Capital- might also be responsible for the same losses is a distinct matter, which I am 
not able to determine here. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Rs right to compensation from Hamilton Rose for the full amount of compensation. Hamilton Rose is 
free to pursue other parties for some of these losses once theyve compensated Mr R in full.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Hamilton Rose do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Hamilton Rose must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Hamilton Rose should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. 
If Hamilton Rose is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age, presumed to be 20%. As Mr R 
was able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Hamilton Rose deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Hamilton Rose should give Mr 
R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
transferdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the business 
being notified of 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Hamilton Rose 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Hamilton Rose totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R was a cautious investor
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr R would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The above calculation uses the value of Mr Rs fund when it was transferred, so before he 
paid any initial adviser charges which means he effectively wont have paid for the advice. 
GIven that Mr R would have needed to transfer to access his tax-free cash, I think he always 
would have paid some adviser charges. So I dont think its fair in the circumstances to 
award any additional fees towards new advice. We also dont tend to award compensation 
for having to bring a complaint as this is just part of daily life. Also, Mr R had a representative 
dealing with his complaint, so I cant see that this would have had much of an impact on him. 
For these reasons Im not awarding any additional compensation other than the calculation 
above.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and request Hamilton Rose Wealth Management Limited to pay 
Mr R the compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman