DRN-1654923
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy was mis-sold to her 
by Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of the sale as The Leeds Permanent Building 
Society and then more recently as "Halifax").
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was probably 
taken out in one of the banks branches and provided Ms W with cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms W didnt agree. 
She said, in summary, that:
She was dismayed and surprised in 2019 to find out that she had PPI when it was 
recommended she check all businesses that she'd used over the years. Every other 
business she approached confirmed she didn't have PPI.
She never knowingly took the PPI out. The adjudicator found the bank could have 
made the optionality of the policy clearer, so her complaint should be upheld.
She wouldn't have been able to claim on the policy because her employer would 
have paid her if she couldn't work. So, if she was offered the policy, she would have 
refused it.
The PPI premium was hidden in the monthly mortgage payments.
Ms W explained how let down she feels by Halifax and that she's lost trust in it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws complaint.
Halifax doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a record of 
what took place. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint for the following reasons:
Our adjudicator did not conclude that the optionality of the policy could have been clearer. 
He said he could not conclude that "policy was not presented as optional". Likewise, I 
havent seen anything to show that Halifax didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate 
product. I have considered this very carefully. And I've considered in particular Ms W's testimony and 
her strength of feeling - she's told us she would not, and did not, knowingly take the PPI. 
And she did not have PPI on any other financial products. She says she only realised she 
had PPI when she checked last year. But I have to take into account that this all 
happened around 25 years ago. And I would not expect Ms W to be able to remember what 
was discussed, what may have been recommended and what she decided to do. Following 
the publicity about PPI mis-selling I'm not surprised that Ms W believes she would never 
have taken it. But PPI can be useful a product in specific situations and just because she 
thinks now that she wouldn't have taken it, doesn't persuade me that she didn't agree to take 
it at the time.
Also I can see Ms W cancelled the policy around a year after she took it out. So she must 
have known she had it to be able to give instructions to cancel it.
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Halifax made Ms W aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it. 
Halifax says that this was likely to have been an advised sale. This means that, in 
recommending the policy, it needed to ensure that it suited Ms Ws needs. It doesnt look like 
the PPI was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
I say this because:
Ms W was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
 
Ms W told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. This 
didn't mean she couldn't claim under the terms of the PPI - it would have paid out for 
up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in addition 
to her sick pay. It also covered her if shed become unemployed. The mortgage was 
a significant long term financial commitment and Ms Ws home was at risk if she 
didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, 
in addition to Ms Ws existing arrangements. 
 
Ms Ws told us she always had savings, but she couldn't say for sure how much she 
had in 1995. It's possible any savings she did have were earmarked for other 
reasons and the PPI would have allowed her to continue to meet her mortgage 
payments without the need to use her savings. I've also considered that Ms W says 
she could have relied on family members to help her. But, as this wasnt a 
guaranteed source of funds, this doesnt make a difference to my conclusion.
 
Ms W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
 
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms W before 
she agreed to purchase it. Its possible she wasnt told it would cost £18.30 each 
month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Ms Ws decision to 
purchase the policy. I've found that she'd chosen to take out the policy and would 
have known she would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided. And I've not 
seen anything to suggest that the monthly premium was hidden in the mortgage 
costs as Ms W has suggested. The PPI was a separate product, there would have 
been a separate direct debit mandate, and I find, on balance, the monthly premium 
would have been shown separately to her mortgage payment.
 
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Ms W would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to her  overall, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
I appreciate Ms W will not agree with my decision and that she feels let down by Halifax. But, 
based on everything I've seen, I'm not able to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman