DRN-2045754
The complaint
Miss P, who is represented by Mr B, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed a transaction 
to be removed from her account despite not authorising this.
What happened
Miss P was on a cruise when she fell ill and required medical treatment. Following 
treatmentwhich she was unsatisfied withshe was billed £9,273.34. Miss P and her 
representative, Mr B, contacted their insurance provider and informed them of the situation. 
Whilst the insurance company indicated that the amount billed was unnecessarily excessive, 
it agreed to cover it and provided a guarantee of payment.
Miss P also informed Lloyds of the situation and says that she specifically instructed the 
bank to not allow the amount to be removed from her account. She says that a Lloyds 
representative assured her that this wouldnt be permitted and advised her to reduce her 
balance to a low amount to prevent this.
Despite the above, the cruise company debited the account for the full amount using a card 
that had been pre-authorised by Miss P for payments during her trip; this placed her account 
into a substantial overdraft.
Miss P raised a chargeback claim, but Lloyds said it couldnt raise a chargeback for a 
number of reasons. It said that Miss P hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support the 
claim and added that an insurance claim had already been raised for the amount. 
Miss P was unhappy that Lloyds permitted the amount to be debited from her account and 
that it refused to raise a chargeback claim, so she made a complaint. 
Lloyds investigated and said that it had made an error. It said that Miss P was provided the 
incorrect advice from one of its representatives. It said that it was unable to prevent the 
payment being made as Miss P had pre-authorised the cruise company to remove funds 
from her account using her debit card for this particular purpose, and it added that this is a 
guaranteed form of payment. It added that the account terms and conditions did allow for 
payment to put the account into an unarranged overdraft facility. As it had made an error, it 
offered to compensate Miss P £500 for the inconvenience caused and reimburse her for the 
cost of calls. Miss P declined this offer as she was unhappy with Lloyds response.
Mr B referred Miss Ps complaint to our service on her behalf. An Investigator here looked 
into the complaint, and after assessing the evidence thought that Lloyds offer was fair in the 
circumstances. She said that whist she did think that Lloyds could have raised a chargeback, 
the compensation offered by Lloyds fairly reflected the impact of the twelve days she was 
out of pocket before the insurance provider reimbursed the money.
Mr B, on behalf of Miss P, rejected the Investigators assessment and responded in detail 
with the reasons for this. Some of these reasons include Lloyds failure to:
Follow her instruction to not allow the payment
Investigate the matter and liaise with the insurance provider 
Advise her correctly regarding the possibility of the payment being taken
Initiate a chargeback
Mr B also provided a detailed breakdown outlining how the situation had affected Miss Ps 
and his own health. It was also pointed out that as a result of the account entering a 
substantial overdraft, a personal cheque had been returned unpaid along with a number of 
other bill payments, causing embarrassment and further distress.
Mr B concluded that both he and Miss P should be awarded in the region of £20,000 for 
distress caused and to ensure the bank prevents any reoccurrence.
Our Investigator pointed out that only Miss P would be entitled to compensation as the 
customer of the bank, and she referred Mr B to our compensation guidelines. Mr B, on 
behalf of Miss P, remained unhappy with the assessment. As a result, the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of issues, on behalf of Miss P, regarding the findings of the 
Investigator and errors Lloyds has made. I have considered all of the points raised by Mr B, 
but I wont be answering each of them specifically. Instead, Ive considered the complaint as 
a whole and set out my findings below.
It isnt contested in this case that Miss P provided her debit card to the cruise company for 
pre-authorisation, but she says she withdrew her consent once she realised they were 
attempting to remove the £9,273.34 from her accounts. Miss P wasnt happy with this as the 
insurance company had already provided a guarantee of payment to the cruise company. 
She was also unhappy with the service received when obtaining the treatment.
Whilst I do understand the frustration caused in this instance, Miss P had already provided 
pre-authorisation for her card to be debited by the merchant. In addition to her pre-
authorisation, Ive considered the document that was signed by Mr B, on behalf of Miss P, 
prior to her receiving her treatment. This statement reads:
I understand that ship physicians do not accept insurance assignment from any insurer. As 
such, I understand and agree that full payment is due upon services rendered.
The legislation relevant to this transaction is The Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
basic terms, Lloyds are able to hold Miss P liable for any disputed transaction if Miss P 
authorised the transaction, or if she didnt take reasonable steps to keep her account secure. 
In addition, regulation 83(2) states that in the case of a payment transaction initiated by or 
through the payee (cruise company), the payer (Miss P) may not revoke the payment order 
after giving consent to the payment initiation service provider to initiate the payment or giving 
consent to execute the payment transaction to the payee. In basic terms, a payment cant be 
revoked after a payer has consented to that payment being made.
In this instance, Miss P had provided pre-authorisation for the merchant to remove funds 
from her account. And the form signed on behalf of Miss P acknowledges that full payment 
would be due upon services rendered.
Miss P was aware following treatment that the medical costs were being covered by her insurance provider. But there are no grounds to remove consent for the payment to be made 
despite a guarantee of payment being provided. Whilst Miss P wasnt happy with the medical 
treatment shed received, this is a dispute that would be managed post-payment of the 
funds. But for the purposes of the relevant legislation, Im satisfied that this payment was 
authorised, and that this authority couldnt be revoked once given.
Mr B has pointed out that by Lloyds allowing the transaction to take place, Miss P was 
placed into a substantial overdraft which was above the limit of her arranged overdraft 
facility. But Lloyds has pointed out that in addition to an arranged overdraft, accounts have 
access to an unarranged overdraft facility covered in the accounts terms and conditions. Ive 
read the account terms and Im satisfied that this is covered in 11.6 of the account terms. 
Miss P ought to have been properly informed about the payment and any potential impact on 
her account, but ultimately, Lloyds wasnt wrong to permit the use of the unarranged 
overdraft despite the incorrect advice.
Miss P is also unhappy that following the transaction, Lloyds refused to carry out a 
chargeback of the funds. But at the time of raising the chargeback claim through Lloyds, 
Miss P was aware that the bill was being covered by her insurance provider and that she 
was going to be reimbursed. I therefore dont find it unreasonable that a chargeback claim 
wasnt raised in these circumstances. I also dont think there would have been a likely 
prospect of success considering that the transaction had been pre-authorised. There may 
have been a valid claim considering the dispute of the quality of services received as Miss P 
was unhappy with the treatment and the price that was charged for this. But this is a dispute 
for the insurance provider to bring considering that they are the ones experiencing any 
potential loss.
Lloyds have agreed that it did make an error in the advice it provided to Miss P before the 
transaction took place. It offered to pay £500 to cover the distress and inconvenience of this, 
but Mr B has suggested that the error caused both he and Miss P substantial mental harm 
as a result. He felt that a payment of around £20,000 was sufficient compensation to cover 
this.
Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties to determine the impact Lloyds error 
has caused Miss P. Having read the submissions of Mr B, on Miss Ps behalf, there are a 
number of points Id like to clarify prior to issuing my findings.
Mr B has suggested compensation for both:
The impact the error has had on himself and Miss P
To prevent any reoccurrence of the error by the bank
It is not our services role to punish financial businesses for errors it has made in order to 
prevent reoccurrence. Nor are we able to compensate a third-party that does not hold a 
relationship with the bank in the circumstances of the complaint. If an error is found to have 
occurred, then the role of our service is to ensure the business puts things right, and the 
complainant is fairly compensated for any impact this has had on its customer. Mr B isnt a 
customer of Lloyds here, only Miss P is. Its her account that is involved and its only any 
impact on her that can be considered. So, Ive gone on to consider how this error has 
impacted Miss P.
As a result of the advice Lloyds provided, Miss P was significantly overdrawn for the twelve 
days it took for her insurance provider to reimburse the funds. It also meant that a cheque 
Miss P had issued was returned unpaid and several bill payments were rejected. Miss P has 
explained that this caused embarrassment and impacted an existing condition she was 
suffering with. But in addition to this I must also take into consideration that Miss P was aware she was being reimbursed the funds and that she was left in an unarranged overdraft 
for a period of twelve days. This has clearly caused Miss P to be not only be emotionally 
impacted by the situation but has caused inconvenience in trying to rectify it.
Mr B has submitted, on Miss Ps behalf, medical evidence to support her submission of the 
impact this had on her. But this evidence only covers a pre-existing condition that is being 
treated resulting from an incident separate to this complaint. I do however accept that this 
incident no doubt exacerbated this unnecessarily, but I dont think that it has to the extent 
Mr B has outlined in his compensation suggestion. I say this as I havent seen any evidence 
that shows a direct correlation between the error Lloyds have made and a deterioration in 
Miss Ps health. I must also take in to consideration that Miss P was already aware once the 
payment had been debited from her account that it was being covered by her insurance 
provider. I will reiterate that this by no means is intended to deny that upset was caused to 
Miss P as I do find that this was caused  but its to explain the reasons why the 
compensation award is fair in the circumstances.
Lloyds has made an error in the advice that it provided, and this likely prevented Miss P from 
reducing the impact that the payment would have had on her account, and subsequently, the 
distress and inconvenience this caused. But considering all the above points, I do think that 
the offer of £500 is fair compensation for all the reasons Ive given.
I recognise that Miss P will be disappointed with this amount, but I can only consider what 
impact Lloyds error was here rather than the overall circumstances of the event and the 
error of third-party organisations. Whilst Lloyds werent able to prevent the payment and 
acted reasonably in not raising a chargeback, I do feel Miss P could have negated some of 
the emotional and financial impact of the payment had Lloyds advised her correctly.
This resulted in Miss P being placed in to a situation that likely could have been prevented. It 
also caused her to suffer the embarrassment of a gifted cheque being bounced and a 
number of bills being returned unpaid. This no doubt would have caused inconvenience in 
having to be corrected and emotional upset. For these reasons, I do feel that the 
compensation award should be around the higher limit of our moderate impact 
compensation band.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss P £500 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman