DRN-2525655
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Miss W, in her capacity as Executor of the estate of her late 
father, Mr W, who died in 2006. Miss Ws complaint is about the way Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax) has dealt with her late fathers Retirement Home Plan mortgage (RHP), 
and in particular in relation to arrears on the account.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, Mr W had a RHP with Halifax. This is a type of interest-only mortgage where there is 
no end date to the mortgage term. Monthly payments of interest are required, but no 
repayment vehicle is necessary, as the mortgage is repaid on the death of the borrower, or 
when they go into long-term care or sell the property voluntarily.
Its not clear when Mr W took out the mortgage or what the initial advance was, but when he 
passed away in December 2006 there was just over £32,000 outstanding. The mortgage 
terms and conditions say that, on the death of Mr W, the mortgage must be repaid, and that 
the estate has 18 months in which to do this. Probate was granted naming Miss W as sole 
Executor on 23 October 2007.
Miss W continued to pay the interest on the mortgage for some years, but in 2017 Halifax 
wrote to her to say that the account must now be closed. The direct debit was cancelled and 
arrears began to accrue. Halifax began to write to Miss W about the arrears, repayment of 
the mortgage and possible possession action. Miss W complained to the bank, but her 
complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss W brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator 
looked at it. He didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly, given the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage and the length of time since Mr W had passed away. He thought Halifax had given 
Miss W sufficient time to sell the property.
After this, Halifax confirmed that the arrears had been repaid, but that there was still a risk of 
litigation due to the mortgage balance remaining outstanding.
Miss W didnt accept the investigators findings. She says (and I summarise) that Halifax is 
trying to take the property away from her, and that this is personal and a well organised set 
up to ensure that she does not inherit the property which her father left to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to note that Miss W has recently been ill, and I hope she is now recovered.
As I said at the start, I have summarised whats happened, as well as Miss Ws response to 
the investigators findings. Thats because the issue in this complaint is relatively simple: has 
Halifax acted unfairly in its dealings with the late Mr Ws estate?
In this context, I will explain that, as Executor, Miss Ws role is to administer the estate and 
pay off the estate debts, within a reasonable time. Mr W died over 14 years ago, and the 
debt owed to Halifax remains outstanding. 
Im conscious that Miss W considers Halifaxs actions to be targeted against her personally 
and she is unhappy that a specific member of staff has been dealing with the account. But 
Miss W isnt Halifaxs customer  it was her late father who was the borrower, and Miss Ws 
role is to represent his estate  which includes an obligation to repay Mr Ws debts. So 
although Ive noted everything Miss W has said about how she considers Halifaxs actions 
have affected her personally, thats not something I can consider here because Miss W isnt 
Halifaxs customer. Furthermore, we dont award compensation to Executors.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage say that the balance outstanding on the account 
must be repaid within 18 months of the death of the borrower. This means that the mortgage 
should have been repaid by the end of June 2008. I appreciate that around this time the 
global financial crash happened, which affected the property market. But we are now many 
years on from that, and the mortgage is still outstanding.
The property doesnt appear to be on the market at the moment. Online estate agency 
listings show it to have been modernised, and it seems (at least in the latest listing from 
December 2019) to be occupied as a family home. It does not appear to be Miss Ws home 
address, as both we and Halifax have the same alternative address for Miss W. 
Overall I think Halifax has shown considerable patience in the length of time its waited for 
repayment of the debt. I appreciate Miss W thinks Halifax has acted unreasonably in 
refusing to accept further payments. But the account terms and conditions dont provide for 
this mortgage to be transferred to a third party. I can see that Miss W has taken Halifaxs 
actions personally, but it seems to me that all Halifax has done is to try to engage with 
Miss W to get this long overdue debt repaid.
Halifax allowed Miss W on behalf of the estate to pay the interest for several years whilst the 
bank was waiting for the property to be sold. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Halifax to 
decide not to accept further payments in 2017, as the debt had remained unsettled for more 
than nine years after the 18-month period specified in the terms and conditions for 
repayment of the mortgage had expired. There is no provision in the terms and conditions for 
this mortgage to be paid by a third party indefinitely. As the mortgage wasnt repaid in full, 
unpaid interest continued to accrue against the debt and was shown as arrears. This is how 
the account operated, and so I dont think it was unfair of Halifax to do this. It had made its 
position very clear that the mortgage needed to be repaid in full, and that unpaid interest 
would show as arrears.The outstanding debt is modest compared with the value of the property  under £40,000 
outstanding against a sale price (December 2019) of £540,000. If Miss W doesnt want to 
sell the property, it is always open to her to raise finance to pay the mortgage off. But in 
terms of the length of time Halifax has waited for repayment, and the steps its taken to try to 
concentrate Miss Ws mind on her responsibilities as Executor, Im not persuaded Halifax 
has acted unreasonably.
Going forward, I think it would be reasonable for Halifax to grant a further extension of time 
for repayment of the mortgage  and I think six months from the date of this decision is fair, 
given that the debt has been outstanding since Mr W died in December 2006. It might help 
Miss W to take some advice from an independent financial adviser or a solicitor about how 
the estate intends to repay this debt, if Miss W doesnt want to sell the property. 
I must emphasise that if the mortgage isnt repaid in full, Halifax will be entitled to take legal 
action to enforce repayment. This will in turn increase the amount of the debt owed, so I 
would urge Miss W to take steps to repay the mortgage sooner rather than later. Given the 
length of time the debt has been outstanding, I dont think it would be unreasonable for 
Halifax to take action, in the absence of the account being settled in full.
I appreciate Miss W will be disappointed at my decision. However, after taking account of all 
the circumstances, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman