DRN-4205712
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander has declined to refund the money he lost in 2017 to what 
now appears to have been an investment scam. He brings his complaint with the assistance 
of professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mr R.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). It appears 
he made this investment through two Faster Payments bank transfers from his Santander 
account in June 2017 on consecutive dates. These amounted to a total of £20,000.
W has since entered liquidation and Mr R has highlighted significant concerns that it may 
have been operating fraudulently.
Mr R reported what had happened to Santander in 2022. He complained when it did not 
reimburse him. He said Santander had breached a duty of care by failing to question him 
about the original payment and, had Santander done so, it would have come to light the 
investment was not legitimate, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Santander said it was not responsible for the loss. Mr R had authorised the payment, and it 
did not have any reason to intervene or block Mr Rs payment request. These payments had 
been made before the APP scam code (the Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM 
Code) had been introduced and so the code didnt apply to Mr Rs payments.
Mr R didnt accept this. He referred the matter to our service.
One of our Investigators didnt uphold his complaint. The Investigator thought Santander 
should have spoken to Mr R about the second of these payments prior to processing his 
instruction  given it was for a relatively large value and followed a similar large payment the 
previous day. But even had Santander done so he didnt think Santander (or Mr R) would 
have had sufficient grounds to conclude the investment was not legitimate given what it 
could reasonably have uncovered at the time. He didnt think Santander could have 
prevented Mr Rs loss.
Mr R maintained that had Santander intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned him this was a 
scam. Without giving financial advice, the bank could nevertheless have given Mr R 
warnings. Had it done so, this would have stopped him from making the payments, and 
avoided the loss he has now sustained.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mr R is responsible for transactions hes carried out 
himself. Mr R doesnt dispute that at the time, he intended to make the payments, albeit in 
the belief he was investing in a legitimate scheme.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Santander to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment instruction does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before 
processing the transaction.
Here, Santander did not intervene. Arguably it did not need to. While each payment was for 
a relatively large amount, Santander has evidenced hed made other large faster payments 
from his account, including one for the same amount, earlier in 2017.
But even if I were to accept that Santander ought to have intervened here and spoken to 
Mr R about one or more of these payments prior to processing them, I consider it unlikely 
this would have prevented his loss. While there are now significant concerns about the 
legitimacy of Ws business, these first began to surface in the period surrounding Ws 
liquidation, and therefore several years after Mr Rs three payments were made.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Santander could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mr R about his payments back in 
June 2017.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent in 2017 that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused Santander (or Mr R) 
specific concerns about this. 
Mr R has provided copies of investment literature I understand he received at the time. This 
appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave an 
explanation of the risks involved, recommended investors should seek independent financial 
advice prior to making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had 
been approved by an FCA regulated firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough 
here for Santander to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed.
It is possible of course that the investment might have represented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mr R to take. But Santander didnt have any obligation to step in to 
protect its customers from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess suitability 
without an explicit request from Mr R (which there was not) would have gone far beyond the 
scope of what I could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate response to what, on the 
face of it, were legitimate payment requests from its customer.
And while it is plausible to think that had Santander spoken to Mr R it might have given him 
general information about investment scam risks, I dont think a proportionate response from 
the bank would have led Mr R not to proceed of his own accord  again I simply dont think hed have been able to uncover information that would have caused him to question what 
hed been told about W, disbelieve the literature hed received, or have significant doubts 
about proceeding with the payments he was planning to make.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mr Rs submissions, I dont find that significant 
concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either Santander or Mr R at the 
relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Santander to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. All considered, I dont think it likely that 
Santander could have prevented these payments from being made, or otherwise caused 
Mr R not to proceed.
Finally, Santander attempted to recover Mr Rs money from the recipient bank account. 
Unfortunately, given the time that had elapsed since the payments were originally made, and 
with W in administration, no funds remained for recovery by the time Mr R reported what had 
happened. I dont find Santander could have done more here.
Having carefully considered everything Mr R and Santander have submitted, I dont find 
Santander could have reasonably prevented Mr Rs loss here. Neither do I find it materially 
at fault otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mr R would like me to give, and I am sorry to have to 
disappoint him. He has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont consider I 
can fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
Santander UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman