DRN-1271002
The complaint
Mr M complains about how TSB Bank Plc (TSB) dealt with his requests to take a repayment 
holiday. Hes also unhappy with the way in which it presents information about repayment 
holidays to its customers.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr M took out a loan with TSB. This loan was for £10000 over a 72 month 
term with repayments of £203.76 per month.  
Mr M requested payment holidays in May and November 2018, which TSB approved. He 
also requested payment holidays in February and May 2019. But TSB declined those 
requests because it said Mr M wasnt eligible as hed already taken the maximum holidays 
permitted under his loan agreement.
Mr M was unhappy TSB had declined his request for further payment holidays. He felt, under 
the terms of his loan agreement, he was entitled to take up to two one-month payment 
holidays every calendar year. So, he complained.
When TSB responded to Mr Ms complaint it explained that a maximum of two payment 
holidays could only be taken every rolling 12 month period. It said, as hed already taken two 
payment holidays during May and November 2018, he wasnt entitled to take a further 
holiday until June 2019. So, it didnt think it had made an error in declining Mr Ms 
applications for payment holidays in February and May 2019. And it didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Being dissatisfied with TSBs response to his complaint Mr M referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr M and TSB. But they didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. Overall, they didnt think TSB had acted unreasonably in how it had 
dealt with Mr Ms requests for payment holidays during February and May 2019. And they 
didnt agree with his interpretation that he was entitled to take two payment holidays every 
calendar year. But Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory I must base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the information provided 
by Mr M and TSB, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this 
complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think TSB 
made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, in the way it dealt with his requests for payment 
holidays during February and May 2019 such that it needs to now put things right.
Theres a dispute between Mr M and TSB here about the period over which a customer may 
take a payment holiday. Mr M says his loan agreement entitles him to take up to two one-
month payment holidays each calendar year. But TSB disagrees and says a year should be 
interpreted as a rolling 12 month period.
In determining whether TSB acted fairly here Ive carefully considered the content of its 
website and the terms of Mr Ms loan agreement to assess what it says about the period of 
time over which a customer may take payment holidays.
I can see Mr M signed his loan agreement on 24 February 2017. Immediately above his 
signature it states in clear language before signing this agreement please read the Other 
Terms. By signing this loan agreement you agree to be bound by the Other Terms.
Ive reviewed the Other Terms that form part of Mr Ms loan agreement and can see that 
section 3 outlines information that applies to loan repayments. It states you may (up to two 
times a year) ask us to change your monthly repayment date We may in future tell you 
that you can take a payment holiday and how long it will be.
TSB has provided our service with screenshots of the information Im satisfied Mr M would 
have seen on its website about his loan. These screenshots make it clear that payment 
holidays are available if a customer meets certain conditions and are subject to approval.
I think Mr Ms loan agreement and TSBs website clearly explains that payment holidays are 
at its discretion. They dont say a customer is contractually entitled to a payment holiday as 
Mr M has told our service. So, I cant fairly conclude TSB acted unfairly in declining some of 
the applications Mr M made.
Ive also considered the content of TSBs website to see what it says about how often a 
customer can request a payment holiday. I can see TSBs website has been updated since 
2019 to include information relevant to the current Covid-19 pandemic. However, Ive seen 
evidence that confirms that prior to TSBs website being updated it stated a customer could 
ask for up to two repayment holidays every 12 months.
I understand that Mr M feels the reference to a year here is ambiguous and misleading. And 
I can see why, based on his interpretation of a year, hed feel his request for a payment 
holiday should have been granted. I say this because theres reference to a year in the 
loan agreement Mr M signed and the product summary screenshot hes provided out 
service. 
However, looking at this complaint impartially, Im afraid I havent seen enough to persuade 
me that the reference to a year should be interpreted to mean a calendar year as Mr M 
thinks. And Im satisfied that the reference to every 12 months on TSBs website indicates 
that it uses a 12 month rolling period in calculating the period over which a customer can 
request a payment holiday. So, I dont agree with Mr M that he was misled here.
I also think Mr M ought to have been reasonably aware that TSB would define a year as a 
rolling 12 month period. I say this because he told our investigator he was aware of TSBs 
stance on the period over which payment holidays are permitted because it had rejected an 
application he made during 2018. When Mr M submitted his application, in February 2019, hed already had two payment 
holidays in the preceding 12 months. So, he didnt qualify to make a further request. I can 
see TSB informed Mr M he was eligible for a payment holiday in June 2019, as this was a 
new rolling 12 month period. And I understand Mr M took advantage of TSBs offer. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded TSB acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Ms requests for payment holidays in February and May 2019. I also think it was 
correct in informing him that he wasnt eligible to take further payment holidays during 2019 
until June and December. I recognise that Mr M may want TSB to present clearer 
information about how it considers requests for payment holidays. But were not the 
regulator of banks. So, we cant tell TSB to change its website content.  
I appreciate that Mr M feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. And I 
realise hell be disappointed with this decision. But Im persuaded overall that TSB dealt with 
his request for payment holidays during 2019 fairly. It follows that I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ms dispute with TSB informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman