DRN-3904851
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when she bought 
travel insurance.
What happened
Miss J bought travel insurance through Barclays in May 2022. She explained shed not 
received her policy terms, and so in June, she asked for the documents to be resent. Miss J 
said they didnt arrive in time for her holiday and that this caused her unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience as she didnt know who her cover was with. Miss J also said Barclays 
used her email address for marketing despite her saying she didnt agree for it to do so. Miss 
J said she would like considerable compensation for the errors as well as a premium rebate 
for the time she was without her policy documents. 
Barclays said it sent the documents by post twice and so it couldnt understand why shed 
not received them. It accepted that her email address had been used for marketing purposes 
and apologised for that. It paid Miss J a total of £170 compensation for her trouble and said 
it'd take around eight weeks to stop marketing messages being received. 
Our investigator thought that was fair, however Miss J didnt. Still unhappy with the 
compensation on offer, Miss J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and so its 
for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it, mainly for the same reasons already explained 
by our investigator. I think the compensation offered is fair and so I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything more in respect of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied Barclays sent Miss J her policy documents when she first took the policy in May 
2022. I say that because Ive seen evidence to support that. In any event, Barclays resent 
the information again and so I dont think its done anything wrong here. Ive also checked 
the address held by Barclays and I note its the same we hold for her which I understand is 
correct. And so, although Barclays paid Miss J £20 compensation for that, I wouldnt have 
asked it to as Im satisfied no error had occurred. 
Barclays shouldnt have used her email address for marketing purposes and Barclays 
apologised for that. It explained Miss Js marketing preferences shouldve been updated to 
reflect her opting out of any promotional material and that this didnt happen. Barclays 
explained this has subsequently been corrected, but that it would take eight weeks for this to 
be effective. I agree this mustve been frustrating for Miss J, however I understand the 
reasons given for this. Barclays marketing strategy makes it difficult for it to stop contact 
sooner because its preparations are made in advance and so although it registered Miss Js 
opt out preference, itd take eight weeks for this to filter through the campaign. And so, 
although this was Barclays error, Im satisfied its taken reasonable steps to remove her 
from its marketing campaign. 
I consider the compensation paid a fair reflection of the overall distress and inconvenience 
caused in the circumstances because I consider this a relatively minor error with a relatively 
low impact. Ive also not seen any persuasive evidence that would lead me to believe this 
issue had a significant impact on Miss J or her wellbeing. Barclays put things right in good 
time and where there was a delay in doing so, it explained why. And so, I dont consider this 
to have had a significant impact enough to recommend more compensation.  
Further, Ive thought about Miss Js argument about receiving a refund of the premiums paid 
for her insurance, but Im not persuaded by it. I say that because even though she didnt 
receive the policy documentation, Im satisfied Barclays sent it on more than one occasion. 
And so, I dont think it fair to hold Barclays responsible on that point. But even if Barclays 
hadnt sent her the documents, I still wouldnt have agreed with Miss Js point because the 
policy was still in place. Thats to say she benefitted from cover whilst she was on holiday 
and thereafter and I think its fair that she pays for that.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman