DRN-3607847
The complaint
Mr H complains that Five Lamps Trading Ltd (Five Lamps) irresponsibly granted him credit 
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Five Lamps provided Mr H with three fixed sum loans in 2020. They were all to be repaid 
over a 12 month period and the details were as follows:
Loan Date Amount Monthly Repayment
1 1/6/2020 £500 £57.70
2 23/7/2020 £750 £88.61
3 10/12/2020 £954 £114.61
Mr H says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Five Lamps disagree. They say that they used Mr Hs expenditure declarations and 
completed a detailed review of his credit file before lending. They were able to validate his 
income and noted payments to creditors were up to date with payments being maintained. 
They said that when their usual income validation process was unable to validate Mr Hs 
income for the third loan, they asked for a copy of his payslip and were able to do that. They 
thought there was evidence that all three loans were affordable for Mr H.
Our investigator thought that Five Lamps shouldnt have provided any of the loans and she 
suggested Five Lamps should take some action to remedy the situation. But as Five Lamps 
didnt respond the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
Loan 1
I think Five Lamps carried out proportionate checks before approving the application. They 
validated Mr Hs income and checked his credit file whilst asking for details about his 
expenditure. 
But I think those checks should have given Five Lamps cause for concern. Mr Hs credit file 
showed them that he had two credit card debts being recovered by debt collectors; £4,711 of 
defaulted debt; three defaulted accounts in the last three years; five accounts in delinquency 
in the last year, and that he also had other short term and high cost lending in place. I think 
that in itself was enough to suggest that it was not responsible to further increase Mr Hs 
indebtedness and that this first loan should not have been provided. I dont think any further 
checks were necessary to demonstrate the loan wasnt affordable.
Loan 2
Five Lamps carried out similar checks before approving the application and they also had 
some information about Mr Hs repayment performance on the loan he had taken out with 
them the previous month. But I dont think the credit file showed thered been any 
appreciable improvement in Mr Hs financial situation and any information they had from his 
account performance with them was extremely limited. I dont think Five Lamps needed to 
carry out any further checks as I think the information they had already gathered was 
sufficient to suggest it would not be responsible to increase Mr Hs indebtedness even 
further. The second loan should not have been provided.
Loan 3 
Five Lamps carried out similar checks before approving the application. They were able to 
consider Mr Hs performance on his previous loans and they also validated his income by 
asking for a payslip. I think the checks were proportionate to the credit being provided. But 
Mr Hs financial situation doesnt appear to have improved. The amount of unsecured and 
revolving debt hadnt changed much and neither had the defaulted debt. The credit file 
showed hed applied for eight new credit accounts in the six months since his first loan was 
approved and I think the overall picture was of someone who was struggling with his 
financial commitments. 
I think Five Lamps should also have questioned why Mr H needed a third loan within such a 
short period of time and before hed paid off his previous credit with them. 
I dont think Five Lamps needed to carry out any further checks as I think the information 
they had already gathered was sufficient to suggest it would not be responsible to increase 
Mr Hs indebtedness even further. The third loan should not have been provided.
Putting things right
Five Lamps shouldnt have given Mr H the loans.
If they have sold the outstanding debts they should buy them back if they are able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If they are not able to buy the debts back then they should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees, and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything you have 
already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees, and charges from the balance on any outstanding loans, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then you should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. You 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. You shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal you have already written-off. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to these loans. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give  
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Five Lamps Trading Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman