DRN-2581327
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that London General Insurance Company Limited (London General) wont
carry out further investigation or repairs to his laptop under his accidental damage and
breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr N contacted London General and said his laptop hadnt been working as
it should be, so he wanted to claim under his laptop accidental damage and breakdown
policy.
The laptop was taken in for inspection. The repair agent reloaded the operating system and
the laptop was returned. Mr N contacted London General to say that despite receiving his
laptop back, it was still having issues. So the repairer again inspected the laptop.
It was identified that the laptop was running slowly, so the hard drive was replaced. The
laptop was tested and as no further faults could be found, it was returned to Mr N. Following
this, Mr N reported that the laptop was continuing to have issues, so the repairer
re-inspected the machine, but said it was unable to replicate the problem reported.
London General said that as it was shutting down when using game applications, the issue
was likely software related which isnt covered under the policy, so they declined to do
anything further.
As Mr N was unhappy with London Generals position, he approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said based on the information provided, the
laptop had been tested but no further hardware issues had been found. Mr N provided
further information from both the manufacturer and an independent repairer to support his
position. But this didnt change the investigators view of things.
As Mr N was unhappy, he asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my thinking, before I made my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that when the laptop was first inspected the operating system was 
reinstalled, but the repairer said there werent any hardware issues. When it was 
inspected a second time, there was an issue identified with the hard drive which was 
reporting it was operating at 94%, so it was replaced.
But following this, Mr N reported the laptop was still shutting down when running 
various applications.
The laptop was again taken to London Generals repairer. They say they ran a game 
which was graphically testing on the machine, but it only shut down when the game 
was left running and the system went into sleep mode, they say they were otherwise 
unable to replicate the issue Mr N had reported. And they say the other tests, 
including a stress test, didnt conclude there was a hardware issue. So they said it 
must be software related.
I need to consider whether London General has sufficiently demonstrated the issue 
with Mr Ns laptop is software related, and therefore not something which they need 
to investigate further. But having considered all the information provided, I dont think 
they have. Ill explain why.
Mr N has provided a number of links to videos he has recorded which show the 
laptop shutting down when running games and stress testing. And this does show 
that the laptop is shutting down with different types of usage as reported, which 
wasnt something London General say they were able to replicate. So, Im satisfied 
from the evidence Mr N has provided that the laptop is shutting down as reported.
Mr N has also provided logs of the errors and when they were reported. Whilst
London Generals repairer said they werent able to replicate the issue, there were 
critical shutdown logs during the time it was with the repairer. Which would lead me 
to conclude on balance, the laptop was suffering from issues at that time.
Adjustments were made to the settings of the processor by Mr N. And he said that 
this resulted in the laptop staying active for longer, but ultimately it still continued to 
shut down.
An independent laptop repairer was also asked to investigate the issue by Mr N. 
They said they carried out various tests, most of which were fine. But when testing 
the graphics, the computer rapidly shuts down. So they were able to replicate what 
was reported, and said the only conclusion is a hardware fault.
The manufacturer was also contacted by Mr N. He completed all the actions theyve
suggested, and they also said if this didnt resolve the issue, it was likely a hardware 
related fault.
Based on all the information provided, I think Mr N has shown the problems hesexperienced are likely to have been caused by a hardware issue, or at the least that 
they require further investigation by London General into the cause. So Im not 
minded to conclude London General has fairly demonstrated its a software fault and 
not something which they need to investigate further.
Mr N has had the laptop since 2016, and up until the point he reported the problem, 
which resulted in the operating system being reinstalled, and hard drive being 
replaced, the laptop didnt suffer from the shutting down issue previously. Mr N has 
also said that he used the same gaming programmes prior to the problems hes now 
experiencing. So if it was a software issue, as London General has said, I think it 
would likely have been evident much sooner.
So unless the responses to my provisional decision change things, Im minded to say 
that London General need to carry out further investigations and testing of Mr Ns 
laptop to establish whether the graphics card (or anything else) is causing the 
problems reported, taking into account the additional evidence Mr N has provided in 
support of this.
Its clear that the claim process has caused Mr N inconvenience. His laptop has 
needed to be returned to London General a number of times for investigation, which 
still hasnt identified what is causing it to shut down. And I dont think it was 
reasonable for London General to decline to carry out further investigations when 
they did. This has meant Mr N has had to go through additional inconvenience in 
order to demonstrate there is an issue with his laptop. So Im also minded to say that 
London General should pay Mr N £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
So I was minded to conclude London General should carry out a further inspection and 
investigation of the faults reported to Mr Ns laptop. I was also minded to say London 
General should pay Mr N £50 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
London General thought I had issued a final decision, rather than a provisional decision. In 
the response London General said they disagreed and were confident it was a software 
fault, but would instigate a further inspection and pay the compensation. Our investigator 
clarified it was a provisional decision and not to do anything further until I had reviewed the 
responses and issued my final decision.
In their response London General also asked what would happen if they couldnt replicate 
the fault and asked for confirmation which part(s) should be replaced. They said it wouldnt 
be fair to cover the cost of parts where no hardware failure had been identified.
Mr N accepted my provisional decision, but he said he thought that London General should 
use a different repair agent when it reinspects his laptop.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive again thought carefully about the conclusion I came to in my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.London General has said that they are confident its a software issue  as they said before. 
So theyve asked which part(s) should be replaced if they cant replicate the issue when they 
carry out a further inspection. They say it would be unfair to replace parts, if a hardware fault 
still hasnt been identified.
I cant tell London General which parts specifically, as we dont yet know if the fault wont be 
able to be replicated on further inspection. When this complaint came to us, London General 
said they were satisfied it was a software issue, and said that they wouldnt investigate 
further.
But I reached the provisional outcome that I didnt think London General had done enough to 
show it was a software issue, or not to investigate further, for the reasons outlined in this. On 
this basis, I said in my provisional decision I think its been shown that the issue is likely to 
be hardware related, or at least that it needs further investigation by London General taking 
into account this evidence. 
I said that unless anything changed as a result of my provisional decision  which it hasnt  
then London General need to carry out further investigations and testing of Mr Ns laptop to 
establish whether the graphics card (or anything else) is causing the problems reported, 
taking into account the additional evidence Mr N has provided in support of this. 
So I didnt say London General need to replace specific parts at this stage, rather that further 
investigation is warranted, which is something London General initially declined to do and 
which resulted in this complaint being brought to this service.
Mr N agreed with my provisional findings, but he said he thought that London General 
should use a different supplier to carry out the investigations. But this isnt something Im 
going to direct London General to do at this stage. Im not aware of which suppliers they use 
specifically, and indeed if they use any others. But even if its the same supplier that does 
carry out the further investigations, there is additional information for them to take into 
account which Ive considered when reaching my findings. 
But if London General does use other suppliers, and its concerned that the same supplier 
might not be able replicate the issue (as it mentioned in its response to my provisional 
decision), then this is something that it may wish to think about when it carries out a further 
inspection and investigation of the faults - if Mr N accepts my final decision. 
At this stage though, Im not going to direct it to use someone different, as Ive only said they 
should carry out further investigations, and its down to London General to decide how it 
should effectively do this (if Mr N accepts my final decision). If Mr N is unhappy with 
whatever decision is ultimately reached after the further investigations, we may be able to 
consider this as a new separate complaint. But this will be based on the information at that 
time (including the new evidence and conclusions from the additional inspection and 
investigation).
Neither London General or Mr N made any specific comments about the £50 compensation I 
was minded to direct London General to pay Mr N, so my findings on this are the same, and 
for the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision.My final decision
Its my final decision that I direct London General Insurance Company Limited to:
Carry out a further inspection and investigation of the faults reported to Mr Ns laptop
Pay Mr N £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman