DRN-2589366
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy, which covered a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1986. The PPI started at some point in 1987, although exact records no 
longer exist. The exact start date of the PPI doesnt affect my assessment of the case.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 33 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time of the sale are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mr H said, I would not have voluntarily taken out a PPI unless I was advised. Its 
impossible now to know how the PPI was sold to Mr H. But I dont have any evidence that 
Nationwide told him that he had to take the PPI  or that it was added to his account without 
his knowledge or agreement. And I think its more likely than not that Mr H was given a 
choice about taking the PPI. 
Even if Mr H suspected the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent, fairness would 
require that there was some supporting evidence of this. It wouldnt be fair to make a person 
or organisation prove they didnt do something wrong, unless there was reasonable 
evidence.
From what we know of Nationwides processes at the time, Nationwide wouldnt have made 
what is called a recommended sale. This is where Nationwide must find out the customers 
individual circumstances and check that the product it is recommending is suitable for their 
needs. So, instead, it had to present reasonable information, to help the customer choose if 
they wanted it. 
However, even if Nationwide had recommended the PPI, Id be unlikely to say it wasnt a 
suitable recommendation. Mr H has said, From what I read in connection with the PPI 
scandal, the insurance was not fit for purpose and I should not have have been sold this 
product even if I had shown interest in it. And it is true that many PPI policies were of 
questionable value, and the ombudsman service has upheld very many complaints about 
this. But this doesnt mean that all PPI policies were of no use. 
Those sold to cover mortgage payments often were a good idea: not being able to pay your 
mortgage, if you fell sick for a long time or were made redundant, could cause you serious 
problems. A recommendation to Mr H would also probably have been suitable because:
Its likely Mr H was eligible for the policy, which means he would have been able to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr H would 
need to fall back on any savings, or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr H in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions), but its unlikely Mr H would 
have been affected by any of these
So there wouldnt, as far as I can see, have been anything wrong with Nationwide 
recommending, or otherwise telling Mr H about, the PPI. And, as Ive said, it would then 
have been up to Mr H to decide if he thought the PPI was worth the cost. 
Its hard, now, to know how well Nationwide actually explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr H took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman