DRN-1420322
 
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999 at the same time as Mr M 
applied for a credit card account. He recalls he applied by phone but the banks records 
show it was in one of its branches. I have reviewed the sale on that basis. The PPI gave him 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed, saying he never took out PPI 
so he was either misled to think it would aid his application, or the PPI was added without his 
knowledge after the meeting. So the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where is a dispute about what happened, 
I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider 
is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know how the PPI was presented to Mr M in the meeting, but Mr M indicated that he 
wanted the insurance on the application form he signed.  And theres nothing on the form 
that I think could reasonably have led him to believe it was mandatory, or would help his 
application in any way. I havent been able to find any other evidence to support his 
suggestion that it was added after the meeting. I know Mr M feels strongly that he wouldnt 
have selected PPI, but I have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might 
impact what he recalls. On balance, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr M aware the PPI 
was optional, and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr M told us he was entitled to at 
least six months sick pay from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his 
work benefits and for up to 12 months. Mr M also said he had a death-in-service benefit and 
private healthcare but these products cover different events, and wouldnt help with monthly 
credit card repayments in the same way as PPI. So overall, I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful to Mr M if he lost his job or was sick and unable to work.
I agree its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as good as it 
should have been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think he would still have taken out the policy.
So I don't think the policy was mis-sold. However, Halifax has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr M because: 
- Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
- To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman