DRN-1395122
The complaint
Mr S complains about Rock Insurance Services Limiteds service when he made a travel 
insurance claim.
Mr S will see that the complaint is now in his sole name rather than in his and his partners 
joint names. Mr S is the correct complainant. The change hasnt made any difference to the 
outcome of my decision.
What happened
Mr S had single trip travel insurance which Rock arranged and administered. The insurer, 
which is responsible for claims, is a separate business to Rock. 
Mr S had to amend his holiday dates and he claimed on his policy for the amendment 
booking fee. He says the insurer wouldnt pay the claim as the claim was less than the policy 
excess. 
Mr S complains that Rock didnt tell him that his excess would exceed the claim amount 
when he initially contacted it. He says Rock could have saved him the considerable time and 
inconvenience of sending all the information to support his claim. Also he had to chase Rock 
for a response to his complaint several times. It didnt respond for four months which Mr S 
thinks is very poor customer service. He wants Rock to refund his policy premium and the 
premium of the policy he paid for his partner as a goodwill gesture.
Rock said it wasnt the insurers claims handler so it couldnt tell policyholders whether a 
claim would be accepted. It had provided Mr S with information about how to make a claim 
and the claims handlers details. Rock apologised for its late response to Mr S complaint but 
it said the policy didnt give a premium refund in Mr S circumstances. 
Our investigator said Rock had acted correctly in not telling Mr S about the potential 
outcome of the claim. Rock had delayed in responding to Mr S complaint but as there was 
no significant impact it didnt need to pay any compensation.
Mr S wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the policy was unclear and confusing about 
which business was accountable if he needed to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Several businesses are noted in the policy as having different roles. But the policy is clear on 
page one under the heading 'how to make a claim on your return' about which business to 
contact when making a claim. That business isnt Rock.. 
As Rock doesnt have authority to handle claims for the insurer it cant comment on the 
potential outcome of claims. The regulations it operates under, the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook, says:
A firm that does not have authority to deal with a claim should forward any claim 
notification to the insurance undertaking promptly, or inform the policyholder 
immediately that it cannot deal with the notification.
Rock correctly provided the details for the claims handler and Mr S received the claim form. 
I understand Mr S had the inconvenience of sending his claim information only for the 
insurer to decide it wouldnt pay. But Rock wasnt responsible for telling Mr S that his claim 
may not be met due to the amount of excess so its not responsible for that inconvenience.
Our investigator has explained to Mr S that if he has a complaint about the claim decision or 
handling he needs to complain to the insurer.
Rock took too long to respond to Mr S complaint, which it accepts. He had the frustration of 
chasing Rock for a response. Mr S told Rock he was starting some medical treatment for a 
worrying illness and it did respond soon after. I think Rocks apology for the delay is enough. 
Theres no basis for me to award compensation for the delay as theres no evidence of a 
significant impact on Mr S.
It would be the insurers responsibility to refund the policy premiums. The policy only 
provides for a premium refund if Mr S cancels the policy during the 14 days cooling off and 
no claims have been made, which isnt Mr S situation.
In effect Mr S is looking for Rock to pay compensation to the value of the premiums he paid 
for his and his partners policy. Ive explained why I think Rock doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman