DRN-2704347
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Newline Insurance Company Limited (Newline), has declined to settle 
two claims made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Cs dog, G, underwent a castration operation. The surgery seemed to have 
gone well, and G was discharged from the vets care. But, in the car on the way home, Mr C 
became aware that G wasnt very well. So, Mr C immediately took G back to the vet. 
G was examined, and the notes from the veterinary practice noted that G had a presumed 
anaphylactic reaction following surgery. And a radiograph taken showed G had pulmonary 
oedema. So, it was agreed G would need to stay with an overnight vet. The next day, G was 
discharged, and was prescribed Omeprazole due to him having NSAIDs (painkillers) and 
steroids the previous day, linked to the surgery.
Mr C has explained that for a couple of days G seemed fine. And then after being outside he 
began being sick and suffering from diarrhoea. Mr C took G back to the vets. It was 
confirmed another overnight stay was needed, and G was treated. G was discharged 
following treatment.
Mr C made a claim for the above losses. He said his usual vet (rather than the overnight 
one) completed the claim forms and sent these to Newline. Newline looked into the claim. 
And it declined it.
Newline said this was because Mr Cs insurance policy didnt provider cover for losses 
arising or associated with a routine castration. And, it said the claims form submitted did note 
the claim was for an allergic reaction post the castration surgery. 
Mr C didnt feel this was fair. He asked for clarification on where in the policy it said incidents 
associated with the operation were not covered. And Mr C noted that the vet who submitted 
his claims forms included the two incidences of illness G suffered under one claim, when this 
should have been two claims. Mr C said the incident where G was suffering from vomiting 
and diarrhoea was unrelated to the post-operative problems that occurred.
Given that Mr C felt there was a distinction between the two situations, a further claim was 
submitted. Newline looked at this claim, and said it was the same as the first one  but 
instead of the claim being made for an allergic reaction, the wording was changed to 
anaphylactoid reaction secondary diarrhoea. As Newline said this was the same claim, with 
no new evidence, it maintained its position on the loss.
Because Mr C remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt it should be partially upheld. She said that 
Newline has acted fairly in declining to provide settlement for treatment in relation to the first 
incident  as the insurance policy didnt cover situations arising from castration surgery  
and she was satisfied that the first incident did arise because of the operation. 
However, our investigator didnt think there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that when G 
had to return to the vets a few days later, this was also linked to the operation. She noted 
that Mr C had recently provided evidence from another vet, to say the two situations werent 
linked, and that G had a gastrointestinal upset instead. Given this new information, our 
investigator thought Newline should pay for the treatment G needed on the second occasion.
Newline disagreed. It felt the evidence provided supported that both events were linked to 
the castration surgery and was therefore excluded under the policy. Newline said G had 
been prescribed Omeprazole because of needing painkillers and steroids after surgery, and 
it was likely that either the painkillers and steroids caused Gs digestive problems, or the 
Omeprazole itself did. It said that it wasnt possible for it to discount initial comments made 
by a vet, in favour of the later vets opinion. And it provided commentary from its veterinary 
consultant, as well as a medical text, noting the side effects of Omeprazole. 
Our investigator remained of the opinion the second claim should be settled. And because 
Newline didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this case. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on coming to a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Im not intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Cs policy, to see what cover this provides. From doing this, I 
can see it does provide cover for vet treatment. However, there is an exclusion to this cover, 
which explains that the policy wont cover;
preventative and routine treatments, for example, vaccinations, spaying, castration, 
cosmetic procedures (including grooming), elective surgery or nail clipping and any claims 
arising as a result of these procedures.
Given the above, Im aware that any claim which arises as a result of castration treatments, 
would not be covered under the policy.
So, Ive needed to consider the evidence provided on both events, to see whether Newline 
has acted fairly, in saying the two incidents were linked to the castration surgery  and 
therefore not covered. Ive thought carefully about this. And I do think it acted reasonably. 
And so, I dont currently intend on requiring Newline to do anything more.
The first incident Mr C is claiming for happened just after G was discharged, following the 
surgery. And Ive reviewed the clinical notes which were added by the relevant vet, when G 
returned to the practice. These notes say that Gs visit was for a post-operative complication. 
And that it was presumed G had an anaphylactic reaction following surgery. Later, when the 
claim form was completed, the claim was noted to be for an allergic reaction, following the 
operation, in line with these notes. Ive no reason to doubt the notes from the vet linking this 
incident to a complication of the castration surgery. And because any treatment arising from 
castration surgery isnt covered, Im satisfied Newline has in line with the terms of the policy 
when deciding to decline this claim. In respect of the second incident, there has been contradictory information from the parties 
on the reason the claim came about. Both parties accept that the claim was for treatment 
following vomiting and diarrhoea. But it is in dispute whether this incident of illness was 
linked to the castration surgery or not.
In instances where there is conflicting information, I need to decide what Im most persuaded 
by. And taking everything into account, Im more persuaded by the information saying G 
needed to return to the vets again, due to further issues arising from the castration surgery.
I do appreciate Mr C has said recently sent in information, from another vet, saying G has a 
gastrointestinal upset, and that this wasnt linked to the surgery G had. But this vet doesnt 
detail what he thinks caused the gastrointestinal upset, if it wasnt the surgery and the 
medication that flowed from this.
Newline has provided clinical notes from when G visited the vet on this occasion. This 
references the Omeprazole that G was prescribed following surgery, and the anaphylactic 
reaction he had to the surgery. The notes say that the vet thought about whether it was the 
Omeprazole provided as treatment that was causing G the problem, as this is known to be 
the case in humans. The vet did say that there wasnt any data on this in animals, so they 
couldnt be sure it was the cause of the problems.
But Newline has provided information to show that side effects of Omeprazole do include 
gastrointestinal problems in animals. It has provided me with pages from the canine and cat 
formulary  which is a book detailing various medicines, its uses and side effects. And, 
under Omeprazole the following is noted;
Adverse effects do include nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, skin rashes and tooth fractures. 
An i.v rabeprazole causes pulmonary oedema in dogs at high doses.
In addition to this, Newlines veterinary consultant has also explained that NSAIDs 
(painkillers) and steroids can cause digestive upsets. So, this was possibly the cause of how 
G was presenting too.
Taking all of this into account, I do think it was reasonable for Newline to say the treatment G 
needed a few days following surgery, was likely arising from the castration procedure too. 
The vet had submitted a second claim to Newline, noting this was for anaphylactoid 
reaction, secondary diarrhoea. And the clinical evidence suggests to me it was more likely 
that both incidents where G needed to be treated were linked to the operation, and the 
treatment G needed following it. 
Because claims arising from castration treatment arent covered by the policy, and Im 
persuaded the claims did arise from the surgery and its effects, I dont think Newline did 
anything wrong.
Newline responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have anything further to 
add.
Mr C responded and explained he didnt agree. Mr C said that he didnt think Omeprazole 
could have been the cause of the digestive problems during the second event. Mr C said 
that G had been provided with the same medication during the first incident and hadnt 
suffered any side effects as a result of this  completing the course of medication without a 
problem.
Mr C also provided a link to an article online, about anaphylactic shock in dogs  which said 
digestive problems are how this can manifest, and this would happen immediately after exposure to the thing causing the shock. Mr C said this happened immediately after G had 
been outside in the second incident. And, that the notes from the vet said no gastrointestinal 
signs were present on Gs initial visit, and so the two conditions were separate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do remain of the opinion that Newline acted reasonably in declining both 
claims. 
In relation to the first incident claimed for - neither Mr C or Newline has provided any new 
evidence or comments. So, my decision on this incident remains the same, and for the same 
reasons as noted in my provisional decision.
In relation to the second incident  where G suffered from vomiting and diarrhoea, Mr C has 
provided additional comments. Id like to reassure Mr C I have carefully considered these, 
when deciding whether this changes the outcome of this complaint. And, although I 
understand this will be a disappointment to Mr C, Im satisfied these dont change my 
decision.
Its important to note that it isnt for me to provide a medical opinion on what happened. That 
isnt my role. Rather, I need to think about whether the insurer, Newline, declined the claim 
fairly or not. It has said it thinks the second incident and the claim for this, arose from the 
castration surgery  and claims arising from this are excluded under the policy. 
If relying on an exclusion, it is the responsibility of the insurer, to show that the exclusion 
applies.  And, whilst there is contradictory evidence in this case, I do think it has provided 
persuasive evidence to show the second incident claimed for, most likely arose due to 
treatment from the castration surgery.
I do appreciate Mr Cs comment that a vet has later said that the vomiting and diarrhoea 
experienced was due to gastroenteritis  and that there were no gastrointestinal signs when 
G returned immediately after being discharged from surgery. But there hasnt been any 
explanation from this vet, as to what caused the gastroenteritis, if not the medication. And, I 
have to consider the opinion of the vet that G saw at the time the problem was occurring.
This vet did note that side effects as a result of medication given post-castration surgery was 
possible (Omeprazole). And Newline has provided evidence to show these side effects of 
vomiting and diarrhoea can present in canines. This being comments from its veterinary 
consultant  as well as the medical formulary that does confirm this to be the case. 
As Mr C has noted, this was prescribed following the castration surgery. But whilst Mr C said 
this course was taken without incident  G did need to return to the vet within a few days of 
starting this course, suffering from result of sickness and diarrhoea. 
Mr C has provided information noting that anaphylactic shock in dogs would occur 
immediately and can cause digestive upset. And whilst I appreciate this is a possible 
explanation, and given the above, I dont think it was unreasonable for Newline to conclude 
the problems arose as a result of the castration surgery.My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont require Newline Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman