DRN-4011313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined Mr Ls claim against their 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 23 December 2021, Mr and Mrs L took out a private medical 
insurance policy underwritten by AXA. On 29 December 2021, Mr L saw his GP about 
upper and mid back pain and asked for a referral to a chiropractor. 
On 4 January 2022, Mr L contacted AXA about a claim for chiropractor treatment for 
abdominal pain. AXA set up a claim for abdominal pain and sent Mr L a medical 
information form for his GP to complete.  
On 5 January 2022, Mr Ls GP referred Mr L to a chiropractor in relation to his upper and 
mid back pain. In the letter of referral, Mr Ls GP told the chiropractor that Mr L had an 
ongoing problem with low back pain, in relation to which he was seeing Dr B, a 
consultant in pain management, but that Mr L required the chiropractors assistance with 
his upper and mid back pain. 
On 14 January 2022, Mr L told AXA that hed made a mistake in referring to abdominal 
pain and that it was actually mid back pain. AXA amended Mr Ls claim to middle and 
upper back pain.  
On 27 January 2022, Mr Ls GP completed AXAs medical information form. AXA 
reviewed the information and in February 2022, it declined Mr Ls claim. It said that 
based on the information provided by Mr Ls GP, it appears that the claim relates to a 
condition he had before he took out the policy. AXA said that Mr Ls upper and mid back 
pain was a pre-existing condition, so it wasnt covered by the policy. It said that it cant 
cover Mr Ls claim for upper and mid back pain unless it received a clinic letter which 
confirms that its not linked to his pre-existing conditions. 
Mr L provided AXA with a letter dated 20 May 2022 from his GP in which the GP said the 
referral to a chiropractor for mid back pain wasnt related to Mr Ls previous problems 
with neck pain and low back pain. 
There were further exchanges between the parties, which I wont set out here. 
Essentially, AXA maintained its decision to decline Mr Ls claim. AXA said that Mr Ls 
previous diagnosis of spondylosis can affect the whole spine, so its unlikely that it would 
cover any claims for back pain. It said that it doesnt have confirmation that the upper 
and mid back pain isnt Mr Ls spondylosis or lower back pain progressively getting 
worse. 
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXAs decision to decline Mr Ls claim is unfair. They also 
complain that they were misled in the sales process as AXA said that other insurers may 
not cover a new condition if there is a possibility of it relating to past conditions whereas 
it doesnt associate new medical conditions to pre-existing conditions. 
I understand that Mr L proceeded with the chiropractic treatment which he self-funded. 
Mr and Mrs L want AXA to settle Mr Ls claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. His initial view was that AXA 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mr Ls claim. Mr L provided some further information.  
The investigator reconsidered the matter and said that both Mr Ls GP and chiropractor 
say that the condition which led to the claim is unrelated to Mr Ls pre-existing 
conditions. He thought that AXA should settle Mr Ls claim. Mr L agreed with the 
investigators second view, but AXA didnt.
AXA provided further comment. It said, in summary:
In the telephone calls before Mr L took out the policy he said that hed recently 
been to A&E and the GP referral letter provides that hed recently attended A&E 
for back pain. In addition, Mr L asked how a claim for chiropractor treatment 
would work and said that hed been in contact with local chiropractors. This 
demonstrates an intention to claim against the policy. 
On 4 January 2022, 12 days after taking out the policy, Mr L made a claim for 
abdominal pain. He said that his GP had recommended chiropractor treatment 
rather than physiotherapy. But the medical information form from the GP says 
that Mr L requested a private referral to a chiropractor, so it wasnt the GP 
who  recommended the course of treatment. 
In the phone call on 4 January 2022, Mr L said that hed had symptoms for one 
week, so which started one day after the policy began and one day before his 
appointment with his GP on 29 December 2021. It is concerned about the lack of 
information in the medical information form completed by the GP and doesnt 
understand why the GP said that theres No record of patient being aware 
something is wrong.
The GP referral letter is dated 5 January 2022, not 29 December 2021, which 
was the date of Mr Ls appointment. The GP referral letter was written a day after 
Mr L phoned AXA. In a subsequent call, Mr L said that hed explained the 
underwriting conditions to his GP. Also, the GPs referral letter provides very little 
detail about Mr Ls upper and mid back pain and gives no time frame for the 
symptoms, which is unusual. The referral letter enclosed Mr Ls notes and a list 
of medications, but Mr L didnt provide it with those documents. 
Mr Ls reference to his symptoms have changed from abdominal pain                 
(4 January 2022), middle back pain (11 January 2022), upper back pain           
(14 January 2022), to middle back and shoulder pain (18 February 2022).
Mr L hasnt provided it with all the clinical letters and scan reports which it 
repeatedly asked him to submit. 
The letter dated 28 July 2022, from Mr Ls chiropractor was written for the 
purposes of Mr Ls claim and isnt a clinic letter. In any event, it supports its 
decision to decline the claim as it refers to treatment for low back pain  a       
pre-existing condition -  and theres no mention of treatment for mid or upper 
back pain. It maintains its decision to decline Mr Ls claim and it proposes that Mr L submits 
all clinic letters from the treating consultants, scan/x-ray results, full records from 
the chiropractor, the GP consultation notes and clinic letters from any other 
specialist involved in his treatment.  
The investigator revised his view. He said that it was reasonable for Mr L to provide 
further information to AXA, so that it can assess the claim fully. He didnt think that he 
could reasonably ask AXA to settle the claim without it having the information it had 
requested.         
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider 
the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr L in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read 
and considered. AXA has also provided extensive comments. Im conscious that Ive 
condensed what happened into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever 
possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
I trust that neither party will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to 
be the central issue, that is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ls 
claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
3.4 > How your membership works with pre-existing conditions and symptoms of 
them
[]
Health insurance is usually designed to cover treatment of new medical conditions that 
begin after you join. Your cover for treatment of conditions you were aware of or had 
already had (sic) when you joined depends on what you told us about your medical history 
when you joined.
What cover is there for treatment of any conditions I was aware of when I joined?
We call conditions you were aware of when you joined pre-existing conditions. 
The definition of a pre-existing condition
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before 
the start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your 
cover
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy is on a moratorium basis. That means that it doesnt cover pre-existing 
medical conditions they had in the five years before the policy began until they have been a 
member for two years in a row and had a period of two years in a row trouble-free from that 
condition.  has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think that AXA treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr Ls claim and that its proposal to consider further medical 
information is fair and reasonable. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant exclusion in Mr and Mrs Ls policy in relation to       
pre-existing conditions. The policy doesnt provide cover for any disease, illness or 
injury that Mr L has received medication, advice or treatment for, or experienced 
symptoms of, in the five years before the policy began. 
The central question for me to decide is whether AXA acted unfairly in concluding 
that Mr Ls upper and mid back pain was a pre-existing condition, as defined by the 
policy. I think theres been confusion here as there are two separate issues to 
consider which have become conflated. First, Mr L needs to show that his symptoms 
of upper and mid back pain started after the start date of the policy. If Mr L can 
establish that, AXA is entitled to consider whether his symptoms are in fact part of his 
pre-existing conditions. 
Its not in dispute that Mr L had cervical spondylosis (neck pain) and low back pain 
before he took out the policy. The claim which led to this complaint was also for back 
pain. On receipt of the medical information form completed by Mr Ls GP on            
27 January 2022, AXA referred the matter to medical underwriting, which is what 
wed expect it to do. I dont think that AXA treated Mr L unfairly in concluding that, at 
that stage, there wasnt any medical information about when Mr Ls symptoms of 
upper and mid back pain started. And I think that AXA was entitled to rely on the 
advice of its medical underwriters that the claim was linked to Mr Ls pre-existing 
conditions. 
The medical information form completed by Mr Ls GP says that Mr L had neck pain 
and low back pain since 2018. It also says that he first saw Mr L about his mid back 
pain on 29 December 2021. In answering the question about how long Mr L had 
been aware that something was wrong, the GP doesnt give a date but says theres 
No record of patient being aware something is wrong. I dont think that AXA was at 
fault in concluding that the information provided by Mr Ls GP lacks detail in relation 
to the date of onset of his symptoms of upper and mid back pain. Similarly, the GPs 
letter of referral dated 5 January 2022 to the chiropractor doesnt say when Mr Ls 
mid back pain started. So, AXA wasnt able to establish that Mr Ls symptoms of 
upper and mid back pain first started after the policy began.  When Mr L first contacted AXA on 4 January 2022, he indicated that hed had 
symptoms for the past week, so starting on 28 December 2021, one day before he 
saw his GP and five days after his policy start date. I dont think that AXA was at fault 
in concluding that its unlikely that Mr L had middle and upper back pain for only one 
day before he had a GP appointment about it. 
Given the information AXA had, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude 
that its more likely than not that Mr L had  symptoms of upper and mid back pain 
before he took out the policy. That means that it was entitled to decline the claim. 
I dont think that AXA was obliged to change its position following the letters dated  
20 May 2022 and 28 July 2022 written in support of Mr Ls claim by his GP and 
chiropractor respectively. The information in those letters doesnt establish that       
Mr Ls symptoms of upper and mid back pain were present only after the start date of 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs L have complained that they were misled during the sales process. 
Specifically, they say that on 20 December 2021, AXA said in an e-mail that its 
specified moratorium means that whilst it excludes pre-existing conditions, it wouldnt 
associate other new medical conditions to the pre-existing conditions. I dont think 
thats inconsistent with AXAs decision in this case. Mr L hasnt established that his 
symptoms were present only after the start date of the policy. 
Under the terms of the policy, AXA is entitled to ask for more detailed medical 
information, including access to medical records. AXA proposes that Mr L submits all 
clinic letters from the treating consultants, scan/x-ray results, full records from the 
chiropractor, the GP consultation notes and clinic letters from any other specialist 
involved in his treatment. I think that proposal is reasonable, but Mr L is unsure about 
whats missing. If Mr L wishes to pursue the claim, I suggest he asks AXA what 
records and documentation it needs to see. It may be that AXA asks Mr L to sign a 
medical consent form so that it can contact the providers of treatment. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly in declining       
Mr Ls claim and that its proposal that Mr L submit further medical information is fair 
and reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman