DRN-3845861
The complaint
Miss C complains that MBNA Limited have registered a default with the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs), despite her making payments through a debt management charity.
What happened
Miss C has a credit card with MBNA. As she was suffering from financial difficulties, she 
contacted a debt management charity, who put a plan in place for her to make payments to 
MBNA. Miss C says that she had been sent letters about missed payments, despite paying 
through the debt management charity. She then received a default notice.
Miss C made a complaint to MBNA. They did not uphold the complaint. MBNA said that the 
default notice was correctly sent to Miss C as a payment was required by 5 May, however, 
they didnt receive a payment from her until 9 May, therefore the letter was sent out 
automatically. MBNA confirmed that Miss Cs account hadnt defaulted and they said if she 
had any queries regarding the dates the payments were being sent to them, she should 
speak to the debt management charity. Miss C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. She said that a payment was due on 
Miss Cs account by 5 May 2022 however, it appeared that MBNA didnt receive the 
payment until 9 May 2022. She said MBNA told Miss C that they would be issuing her with a 
default notice due to the late payment. Our investigator confirmed that MBNA had told her 
that Miss Cs account had not defaulted. She said that she couldnt see that MBNA had 
acted unfairly in relation to the points raised. 
Miss C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She raised a number of points. In 
summary she said she had continued to make payments on the same date since she started 
with the debt management charity in 2020 and she had not missed a single payment. Miss C 
mentioned how the letters she was sent by MBNA were very distressing. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both MBNA and our investigator have explained to Miss C  and I echo this  her account 
has not defaulted. So I hope this brings her some comfort, although I can understand why 
this would have distressed her, being sent default notices.
A default would normally only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least 
three months. But here, Miss C was never in arrears by three months (or even by two 
months). So I asked MBNA why they sent her default notices. They explained that when a 
customer is in long term difficulty or cant afford to make repayments to their account, they 
stop interest and fees and they close and default the account. They said that because theyd 
established Miss C couldnt make the required payments to the account and things wouldnt 
improve in the short term, they began the default process as soon as the account fell into 
arrears instead of waiting 3-6 months, as this would only delay things for Miss C. 
MBNA said that because Miss Cs account was in arrears on 30 April 2021, when a age out 
(or account closure) was applied, a default notice was sent the following day. MBNA said in 
this scenario, Miss C had missed only one payment (which I will move onto shortly). They 
said this is also why the default notices were sent when she was only one payment in 
arrears. And it was due to the account closure process being in place and the default 
process being accelerated. 
MBNA told me that they took the decision to close the account because the debt 
management charity told them that Miss C needed a repayment plan because shes in 
financial difficulty, however, they can see she has been able to maintain her payments. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said about making her payments on the same day each 
month since the arrangement had been set up. But as she pays the debt management 
charity the payment instead of MBNA directly, this means the payments dont credit her 
account on the same day each month, which explains why sometimes she will get arrears 
notices and some months she doesnt. For example, if Miss C made a payment to the debt 
management charity on 5 May, when the payment due date is also 5 May and her following 
statement is produced on 9 May 2022, then the debt management charity payment records 
show that they sent the payment to MBNA on 6 May. But due to the weekend, MBNA did not 
receive the payment until 9 May, after her statement had already been produced, so this 
would be classed as a late payment and Miss C would have been in arrears for a few days 
before they received her payment. 
From the information Miss C has given us from the debt management charity, I can see 
payments ranging from the 4th of a month, to the 8th of a month, so MBNA wont always 
receive the payments on the same day of the month. I would strongly urge Miss C to 
consider whether the date she makes the payment would reach her MBNA account by the 
payment due date, to avoid arrears on her account. I would suggest she may wish to contact 
MBNA who have told me that they may be able to move her payment due date, and this 
should resolve this particular problem. If Miss C does not want to talk directly to MBNA about 
this, she should talk to the debt management charity to see if they can assist her here. But I 
must be clear that Miss C will need to take action to avoid this potential scenario happening 
again.
Ive considered whether MBNA have treated Miss C fairly here. I must be clear to Miss C 
that Im unable to instruct MBNA to change how they manage their customers accounts in 
arrears and their default processes, as these are commercial decisions for MBNA to make. 
But Ive also considered that there can be times, that even when a business strictly follows 
their own policies and procedures, that this can lead to an unfair outcome to a customer. Im 
persuaded thats happened in this instance and Ill explain why.
MBNA have said that Miss C was in long term difficulty and that she couldnt afford to make 
the repayments to the account. But Im not persuaded this was the case for as long as Miss 
C was considered to be in financial difficulty. I say this as her payment history shows that 
she appears to routinely make more than the minimum payment to her account. And the 
arrangement had been in place for over a year before the account aged out. So Im not 
persuaded it is fair for them to say she couldnt afford to make the repayments on her 
account here.
While I can understand how MBNA may be under the impression that Miss C may be 
suffering from long term financial difficulty, as she used a debt management charity to make 
payments. This does not appear to have affected her ability to make payments towards her MBNA account. Even if Miss C may have made reduced payments to other creditors, shes 
made a payment of at least £49.97 a month to her account since March 2020 (apart from 
one month where it appears she missed a payment in January 2021). She often has paid 
over £60 a month to her account. And the arrears/default notices only ever appear to show a 
maximum arrears of under £30.
By the time Miss C would have received the default notices, the payment would have 
credited to her MBNA account. So often, she wasnt in arrears at all at the time she wouldve 
received these documents, or the arrears/default notices were showing a low amount. As 
Miss C had already made the payment, these letters would have been distressing to receive, 
often instructing her to make certain payments by certain dates. Such as telling Miss C she 
would need to pay £2.49 by 19 May on a default notice issued to her on 1 May 2021  the 
day after her account aged out.
While these letters may be automatically sent by MBNA, due to her having an arrangement 
with a debt management charity, I would not expect them to potentially register a default 
over such a small outstanding sum, when she was not over a month in arrears (and wasnt 
even a full minimum amount in arrears at the time), even though I can understand what 
MBNA have said about them being informed that Miss C was in financial difficulty and that 
the sooner a default is registered, the sooner it would fall off her credit file. 
These default notices would give Miss C the impression that she needed to make extra 
payments on top of what had been arranged with the debt management charity. This would 
cause Miss C distress, especially as it appears she made even more than the contractual 
monthly minimum payment each month. And she was sent arrears letters on more than one 
occasion which showed she owed MBNA £0.00. So I can understand why Miss C has said 
what shes said about the impact these letters had on her, when as far as she was 
concerned, she had been making the payment on the same date since March 2020. 
So what I think would be fair here, is for MBNA to recognise the impact their actions would 
have had on Miss C and to pay her compensation for the distress caused. They sent her 
multiple default notices and arrears letters when Miss C had kept to her payment plan and 
she had paid more than her contractual monthly repayment. By the time Miss C received 
these notices, then she was likely to not be in arrears at all, so these letters would have 
been confusing and distressing for Miss C to receive. And it would appear that she would 
need to make further extra payments to avoid a default  even though she was already 
paying more than the minimum monthly repayment. 
So what I think would be fair here, is for MBNA to pay Miss C £100, to recognise the impact 
their actions would have on her for the reasons Ive already given above. While Im 
persuaded they were trying to act in Miss Cs best interests, due to their perception of her 
financial difficulty at the time, Im persuaded that their actions resulted in an unfair outcome 
for Miss C. So it follows that I intend to ask MBNA to put things right for her.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. MBNA accepted the provisional decision. Miss C wanted some clarification about 
the provisional decision and made a number of points.
In summary, Miss C said the default notice and account closure letters she was referring to 
were sent to her in April and May 2022, so it would appear to her that MBNA never closed 
her account in the very beginning, when she first contacted the debt management charity. 
This led her to question why in April 2022, they sent a letter telling her they were closing her 
account. She also questioned why they have started charging her interest now if they 
thought she was in long term financial difficulty. She also asked what consideration has been given to the distress it causes her to find that they are now charging her interest on the 
account and what consideration Id given to the letters in 2022 she received from MBNA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I documented in my provisional decision, that MBNA never defaulted Miss Cs account (and 
therefore never closed her account). MBNA believed she was in long term financial 
difficulties as a result of her contacting a debt management charity and that is why they 
stopped interest and fees and they would have closed the account and defaulted it. But Miss 
C kept making at least the contractual payment (albeit this was sometimes received later 
than the due date by a couple of days  this is why their systems issued letters saying they 
were going to close the account as these were sent automatically when a payment received 
was late  so I urged her in my provisional decision, to try and amend the due date or 
payment date to ensure MBNA received the payment prior to the due date). 
As Miss C made the payments for a number of consecutive months, MBNA realised she 
wasnt in long term difficulty with this account and that is why they started the interest again 
 in effect, going back to the contractual agreement. 
In terms of Miss C paying interest now, MBNA are entitled to charge interest in line with the 
credit agreement as she is making at least the contractual payments. If Miss C is unable to 
make the payments with the interest added on this account then she should speak to the 
debt management charity to make a new arrangement or to contact MBNA direct. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said about the letters that MBNA have sent her in 2022. But 
I referenced an example from 2022 in my provisional decision and I have looked at the 
situation as a whole, so I was aware of the default letters which have been issued in 2022 
and thats why my provisional decision said They sent her multiple default notices and 
arrears letters when Miss C had kept to her payment plan and she had paid more than her 
contractual monthly repayment." The multiple default notices includes these letters sent in 
2022. 
I acknowledged that MBNAs actions led to distress when I said in my provisional decision 
So what I think would be fair here, is for MBNA to recognise the impact their actions would 
have had on Miss C and to pay her compensation for the distress caused. They sent her 
multiple default notices and arrears letters when Miss C had kept to her payment plan and 
she had paid more than her contractual monthly repayment. By the time Miss C received 
these notices, then she was likely to not be in arrears at all, so these letters would have 
been confusing and distressing for Miss C to receive. And it would appear that she would 
need to make further extra payments to avoid a default  even though she was already 
paying more than the minimum monthly repayment. 
So what I think would be fair here, is for MBNA to pay Miss C £100, to recognise the impact 
their actions would have on her for the reasons Ive already given above. While Im 
persuaded they were trying to act in Miss Cs best interests, due to their perception of her 
financial difficulty at the time, Im persuaded that their actions resulted in an unfair outcome 
for Miss C."
In summary, Miss Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. But I hope she understands my 
reasons for this if she is disappointed in the outcome.Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
MBNA Limited to pay Miss C £100 for distress. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should settle the complaint in 
line with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman