DRN-2313401
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), didnt treat him fairly 
when they rejected a claim that his holiday had been misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
If I was satisfied that Mr R was told something that was wrong, and that the 
misrepresentation led him to pay for a holiday he would not have otherwise paid for then Id 
think Halifax should take some further action.
Mr R says the hotel he stayed at was advertised as having six acres of tropical gardens, but 
I dont think thats what the brochure said. It said the hotel was set within six-acres of 
tropical gardens. Having reviewed the images of the hotel I cant say thats a 
misrepresentation as the area in which the hotel is set appears to match the description and 
whilst the hotel complex may not be six acres I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the area in which it is set is not six acres.
And, even if Im wrong about that, Id have to be persuaded that if Mr R knew the facts about 
the hotel setting he would not have proceeded with the booking. I havent seen enough 
evidence to demonstrate that would be the case.
Similarly, Mr R is upset that none of the rooms he was allocated had a bath. Whilst the 
brochure would suggest otherwise I would again have to be satisfied that the absence of a 
bath would have meant Mr R would not have proceeded to book his accommodation. Ive not 
seen that Mr R specifically complained about the lack of a bath in the rooms he was 
allocated whilst at the complex. So, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest the 
absence of a bath would have meant he didnt proceed with his booking.
Mr R also complains about a lack of quality and sophistication. I think its fair to suggest its 
an implied term of the conditions that the hotel should be of a satisfactory standard. If it 
wasnt then Id think the hotel had breached those conditions. 
However, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this hotel was of an unsatisfactory 
standard. Whilst I understand the hotels choice of background music was not to Mr Rs 
liking I dont think that suggests the hotel was of inadequate quality as music tastes differ 
and what sounds sophisticated to one person may not to another..
Mr R didnt enjoy the food that was on offer. He said it was bland and monotonous and he 
didnt like the fact it was served as a buffet. He also suggested the fish was not cooked. Ive 
not seen enough evidence to support his assertion that the quality of the food was 
inadequate and whilst I understand Mr Rs depth of feeling, I think whether the food was 
bland and monotonous is a subjective matter. 
Overall, I dont think there is sufficient evidence that this holiday was misrepresented to Mr R 
or that there has been a breach of contract. Mr R stayed for the full term of his vacation and 
the hotel made efforts to assist him as they moved him on two separate occasions. Overall, I 
dont think Halifax have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Rs claim and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman