DRN-3074022
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Portal Financial Services LLP advised her to transfer her benefits from 
two deferred defined benefit (DB) occupational pensions and a personal pension plan into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and to invest her SIPP funds in two high risk 
investments.
Mrs W says she feels the advice was unsuitable given her lack of investment experience and 
her minimal capacity for loss.
Mrs W is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
It appears that in 2011 Mrs W was referred to an adviser at Portal.
Fact find information recorded at the time set out that Mrs W:
- was 41 years old, divorced and had three dependent children;
- was self-employed and earning around £20,000 per year;
- had a mortgage; car loan and credit card debts;
- had around £5,000 in savings; and
- had little or no investment experience.
It also recorded that Mrs W had two deferred defined benefit (DB) occupational pensions 
and a personal pension plan (PPP). The total transfer value of the DB pensions was around 
£16,200 and the PPP had a value of over £15,500.
The fact find information recorded that Mrs W wanted to:
- consolidate her existing pension plans;
- have greater investment fund choice;
- get better investment performance; and
- be able to access tax-free cash.
Mrs W says the Portal adviser told her that her three pension pots were frozen and 
recommended that she transfer all three pension pots into a SIPP. Mrs W says the adviser 
then recommended that she should invest her SIPP funds in two high risk investments.
However, Portal says the pension transfers were carried out on an execution only basis and 
it didnt advise Mrs W to transfer her pensions to the SIPP. It provided this service with a 
copy of a letter it says it sent to Mrs W at the time the pension pots were transferred, dated 
30 September 2011. The letter said Mrs W hadnt received any financial advice and had 
instructed Portal to transfer her pensions to a SIPP on an execution only basis. 
This letter referred to the guaranteed benefits that Mrs W would be giving up by transferring 
her two DB pensions. It said the critical yield (the level of growth the funds would need to 
achieve each year) to match the level of benefits available from the occupational pensions, 
at normal retirement date, were 8.9% and 9.6% respectively.
Mrs W went ahead with the transfers and the SIPP was set up in October 2011. In 
November 2011, the SIPP funds were invested as follows:
- Venture Oil Investments Limited: £18,228.92
- EOS Solar Investments Limited: £10,184.13.
Portal says it wasnt involved in arranging these investments and had no knowledge of them. 
There is nothing in the information that has been provided to this service to explain why 
Mrs W wanted to hold these investments, or how she became aware of them.
From the records available, it appears that a total of £1,290 was paid in fees to the SIPP 
administrator in October 2011 and an adviser fee of £1,597.80 was paid from the SIPP to 
Portal in December 2011. The records also show that ongoing adviser fees were paid to 
Portal.
In March 2019 Mrs Ws representative complained to Portal on her behalf. It said it felt that 
both the advice to transfer her pension pots to the SIPP and the underlying investment 
advice was unsuitable. It explained that Mrs W had recently become aware that the 
investments she had been advised to invest in were too high risk in view of her lack of 
investment experience and her capacity for loss. It also said Mrs W had been shocked to 
discover the level of fees Portal had been taking from her SIPP. 
Portal issued its final response on this complaint in May 2019. It said it felt the complaint had 
been brought too late for it to have to consider it and it disputed whether Mrs W had received 
investment advice. It said the pension transfers and subsequent investments had been 
arranged on an execution only basis.
I issued a jurisdiction decision in June 2021, setting out why I was satisfied that the 
complaint had not been brought too late for this service to be able to consider it. 
The investigator then looked into the merits of Mrs Ws complaint. Having done, so she said 
she was not satisfied that the pension transfers to the SIPP were execution only 
transactions.
Based on the limited information available, she said she wasnt persuaded that Mrs W had 
proactively instructed Portal to transfer her pension pots to The Lifetime SIPP Company 
Limited. Nor was she satisfied that the investments Mrs W had made with her SIPP funds 
had been made on an execution only basis.
She noted that the fact find form used by Portal in 2011 included a section on the specific 
investment required (e.g.commercial property). But this had been left blank. She said that if 
Mrs W had truly been an execution only client, who wanted to transfer her pensions to a 
SIPP in order to invest in specific investments she felt Mrs W would have provided this 
information at the time. She said she was of the view that leaving this section blank indicated 
that Mrs W didnt know how, or where, to invest the funds.
She also said it seemed unusual that a consumer with little investment experience or 
knowledge would actively choose to transfer their pension pots to a SIPP and be able to 
select such esoteric investments without any influence from an adviser.
She noted that Mrs W had told this service that the Portal adviser had said her three pension 
pots were frozen and recommended that she transfer all three pension pots into a SIPP. 
Mrs W also said that the adviser then recommended that she should take out the 
investments she held in her SIPP.The investigator said she felt that the fact find and risk profiling questionnaire Mrs W 
provided information for, were both typical of the records completed during an advised 
transaction. And she noted that the letter of authority Mrs W signed in July 2011 said:
You must list all of your pensions, including your current one, here for us to provide advice.
Having considered the available evidence she said there was nothing to suggest that Mrs W 
had approached Portal and initiated the pension transfers. Nor was there anything to show 
or suggest that Mrs W had made a specific, upfront request to transfer her pensions to a 
Lifetime SIPP. As this was the case, she said she wasnt satisfied that the pension transfers 
have been execution only transactions.
As arranging the pension transfers into a SIPP were not execution only transactions, she 
said Portal should have ensured that any advice it gave Mrs W was suitable for her personal 
and financial circumstances. 
She said that, based on the information Portal had gathered about Mrs Ws pensions and the 
critical yields for the two DB pensions, she felt it wouldve been clear to Portal that it was 
unlikely to be in Mrs Ws best interests to transfer her DB deferred benefits to a SIPP.
She noted that in the letter Portal sent to Mrs W regarding the transfer it asked Mrs W to 
confirm that she was;
aware that it is unlikely that my new scheme with The Lifetime SIPP Company is going to 
achieve a growth rate of 9.6% and 8.9% respectively to match the guaranteed benefits held 
with the [name of former employer] and the [name of other former employer] Scheme.
She explained that at the time Mrs W was advised to transfer her DB deferred benefits to a 
SIPP this Service published 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, but the investigator 
explained that she felt they provide a useful indication of the growth rates that would have 
been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the DB pensions, at retirement at age 
65, was around 9.6% and 8.9% per year respectively. When the advice was given, the 
relevant discount rate was 6.5% per year for an investor with 22 years to retirement. At that 
time the regulator's upper projection rate was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the 
lower projection rate 5% per year.
Having considered the investments in the SIPP, the discount rate, and the length of time to 
retirement the investigator said she felt Mrs W was likely to be significantly worse off in 
retirement as a result of the advice to transfer her DB deferred pensions and PPP to the 
SIPP.
Although Mrs Ws attitude to investment risk wasnt recorded, based on the risk profiling 
questionnaire Mrs W had completed our investigator said she felt Mrs W would have been 
willing to tolerate some investment risk, but not enough to justify a transfer based on the 
critical yields for her two DB deferred pensions.
She also noted that the statements for Mrs Ws SIPP showed that she had paid ongoing IFA 
fees to Portal. Mrs W told this service that she hadnt had any contact with Portal once the 
transfers had been completed. Portal didnt provide anything to this service to show that 
ongoing adviser charges had been agreed with Mrs W, or what service it had provided in 
return for the ongoing fees it had received. In view of this our investigator said she didnt 
think the ongoing fees had been fairly charged.She said there was evidence to indicate that the investments held in Mrs Ws SIPP had been 
arranged by an unregulated business that had since ceased trading. However, she said that 
as Portal had received on-going adviser fees it should have carried out regular suitability 
reviews of Mrs Ws SIPP holdings and should have made her aware that the investments in 
her SIPP were not suitable for her very limited capacity for investment loss.
Portal did not accept our investigators view. It said it had not advised Mrs W and had simply 
facilitated this transaction for her. It referred to the letter it said it had sent to Mrs W at the 
time the pension pots were transferred, dated 30 September 2011. The letter said Mrs W 
hadnt received any financial advice and had instructed Portal to transfer her pensions to a 
SIPP on an execution only basis. 
Portal said that if Mrs W hadnt wanted to go ahead with the pension transfers into the SIPP 
on an execution only basis, she should not have returned the application forms to it. 
It also referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of execution only and it said it 
believed that Mrs W falls into this definition as the investments were not chosen by 
Portal
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view as the investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that the practice of execution-only sales is long established. As well as 
being covered by FCA rules I am also mindful of guidance published in 1997 by a former 
regulatory body, the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) in a Regulatory Update (33). This 
set out that when a business carries out an execution only transaction it must provide clear 
and credible evidence that the customer had asked it to sell a specific, named investment 
product without having been prompted or advised by the business.
The FCA defines an execution only transaction as:
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm does 
not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction and in relation to 
which the rules on assessment of appropriateness ( COBS 10 and 10A) do not apply.
In order to fairly consider this complaint, I have very carefully reviewed all the available 
evidence to see if it supports Portals claim that Mrs Ws pension transfers to a SIPP were 
execution only transactions.
Did Mrs W ask Portal to transfer her pension pots to a named SIPP that she had selected, 
without any prompting from Portal?
In the complaint she referred to this service Mrs W said:
I was contacted by an adviser who was looking at my Insurance and then following this a 
meeting was arranged to discuss my pensions. He said that my existing pensions were not 
performing, were frozen and so it would be better for me to consolidate my funds into a 
SIPP. I was told that the proposed investments would create higher returns.
The advisor discussed two investments; farming in Holland which was low risk and an oil 
investment that was medium risk. Upon trusting the advice given, I transferred the total funds 
of £31,956.07 from my pensions held with [name of personal pension provider and names of occupational pension schemes] into the Lifetime SIPP. £18,228.92 was then invested into 
Venture Oil and £10,184.13 was invested into EOS Solar. No other investments were offered 
as an alternative. I was never told that the investments were in fact high-risk; I would never 
have agreed to the transfer had I known. 
I was informed of one advisor fee; I was not aware that there would be ongoing advisor fees, 
especially considering I only received the initial advice from them without any further contact 
I was also not informed of any administration fees, I did not have any previous investment 
experience and trusted that the advice given was professional and suited my personal and 
financial needs. I could not afford to lose any of the funds within my sole pension; I had no 
other savings, a repayment mortgage and was repaying a significant amount of debt. I am 
extremely frustrated that I have been saving these funds since I was 17, and now I do not 
have anything left to fund my retirement.
From Mrs Ws explanation of how the sale came about it would appear that she was actively 
encouraged to transfer her DB pensions and personal pension by Portals adviser. I havent 
seen anything in the information that has been provided to this service in connection with 
this complaint that shows, or suggests that Mrs W proactively approached Portal and 
instructed it to transfer two deferred DB pension pots and a personal pension to a SIPP 
provider she had selected.
Had Mrs W initiated the transaction I would have expected to see clear and credible 
evidence that Mrs W had instructed Portal to transfer her pension pots to the SIPP provider 
that Portal says Mrs W had selected, The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd.
I find it unlikely that a consumer with little or no investment experience, or savings, aside 
from her modest pension savings would have decided, without any prompting from Portal, 
that the best way to meet her objective of better investment performance would be to 
transfer her three modest pension pots to a SIPP she had selected, without involvement by 
Portal, and invest in high risk, esoteric investments.
Likewise, I find it highly unlikely that Mrs W did fully understand what the critical yield is, as 
Portal claimed at the time. I think that if Mrs W had properly understood that  it is unlikely 
that my new scheme with The Lifetime SIPP Company is going to achieve a growth rate of 
9.6% and 8.9% respectively to match the guaranteed benefits held with the [name of 
occupational pension schemes] she would not have gone ahead with the pension transfers. 
This is particularly the case given her stated objective of better investment performance.
Having very carefully considered this matter I am of the view that Mrs Ws recollection of 
events is, on the balance of probabilities, likely to be an accurate account of how the pension 
transfers to the SIPP came about. I think Mrs W was advised to transfer her pension pots by 
Portal. And, rather than treating Mrs W fairly, and giving suitable advice it encouraged Mrs W 
to transfer her deferred DB pension pots and personal pension despite knowing that it was 
likely that Mrs W would be left worse off in retirement as a result.
There is some evidence to show that an unregulated third party (now in liquidation) was 
involved in arranging the investments Mrs W held within her SIPP. 
But, as Portal was in receipt of ongoing adviser fees, like our investigator, I am of the view 
that Portal should have carried out regular reviews of Mrs Ws SIPP and the investments 
within it. Had it done so, I think Mrs W would have been aware that the investments she held 
were not suitable for a consumer with little investment experience, very modest savings and 
a very low capacity to take investment risk.My decision is that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld, as I am satisfied that she received 
unsuitable advice from Portal to transfer her deferred DB pensions and personal pension pot 
to a SIPP.
Putting things right
Mrs W transferred two DB pensions and a personal pension pot to the SIPP, so in order to 
compensate her fairly, Portal will need to carry out separate calculations according to the 
following methodologies:
DB pension transfers
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs W, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs W within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of her acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mrs W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
 
Personal pension transferred to SIPP
My aim is that Mrs W should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mrs W's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs W would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs W how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mrs W a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Lifetime 
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. I have set out below how Portal should take 
ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as I set out above.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs W's circumstances and risk attitude.
How the illiquid investments should be treated
My aim is to return Mrs W to the position she would have been in but for the actions of 
Portal. This is complicated where the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), as the value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership 
of the investments. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for 
the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mrs W to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portal will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mrs W to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.Additional redress
It appears that the SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP 
to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed 
from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investments, or this is something that Mrs W can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But 
I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pays Mrs W an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
In addition, Portal should also pay Mrs W £300 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculations to Mrs W in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman