DRN-2580065
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of incorrect airline tickets.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons: 
Chargeback
I will deal with the chargeback first. Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card 
Scheme. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with 
the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is 
chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The scheme operator checks the 
nature of the problem against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will 
be successful. 
BoS raised a chargeback within a matter of weeks of being contacted by Mr F. Since the 
cause of the problem was the fact that the airline tickets were not in the correct name the 
merchant queried the claim and BoS asked for a copy of his passport showing his full name. 
It says this information wasnt received and so it re-debited his account. BoS wasnt 
responsible for the decision to reject the chargeback. It did all that was reasonably expected 
to pursue it and I cannot say that it did anything wrong. 
Section 75 Claim
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 offers protection to customers who use certain 
types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has 
an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or 
services, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier
In this case the chain has been broken. Mr F didnt order his tickets direct from the airline 
which refused to let him board. He ordered them from an intermediary which purchased 
them from the airline on his behalf. It is not a subsidiary of the airline or connected with it in 
any way.  I appreciate that this may seem to be a technicality, but the law is quite clear and 
as there is no direct link with the airline, I cannot say that BoS can be held liable for any 
breach by the airline. 
I can consider if there was a breach of contract by the intermediary. In short Mr F agreed to 
buy tickets to allow him to travel. Airlines require the correct name as shown on the 
travellers passport to be on the tickets. The wrong name was recorded in the booking and if 
it can be shown that this was an error by the intermediary then there would be a potential 
breach of contract. 
The intermediary says that the information was input by Mr F and it was not responsible for 
the error. Mr F disagrees. Having looked at the current web site I can see that the customer 
is required to supply their full names and there is a warning that these must match the valid 
passport details. I cannot say how the wrong details were shown on the ticket, but I do not 
have enough evidence to say that this was an error by the intermediary. I note Mr F says it 
got the dates wrong but having looked at the tickets and booking information I cannot see 
that this was the case.
Mr F says that he was unable to contact the intermediary once he was at the airport in order 
to rectify the problem despite it offering a 24-hour service. That may be the case, but Mr F 
booked the tickets the previous day and the contract he entered into states that passenger 
details can be changed up to 48 hours before the trip. Even if he had been able to make 
contact, I cannot see that the problem could have been rectified. 
The intermediary also states on documentation that: Our services are non-refundable and 
non-cancellable. All changes are subject to fees. Visit Manage My Booking if you need to 
make any changes. Again, I cannot see how Mr F would have been able to rectify the 
problem had he been able to make contact to ensure he made the flight.
Finally, the contract was that the intermediary would supply tickets which it did and the offer 
of a 24-hour helpline was not central to that contract and the failure of Mr F to get hold of any 
support does not, on its own, in my view, amount to a breach of contract. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, but I regret I cannot uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman