DRN-3365414
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Fluid, approved him for a credit account which
he feels was unaffordable for him at that time. Mr M is also unhappy that NewDay later
increased the credit limit on the account, which he also feels was unaffordable for him, and
with the service that he received from NewDay following a request he made to them for
financial assistance.
What happened
Mr M applied for a NewDay administered credit account in September 2018. Mr Ms
application was accepted, and NewDay issued Mr M with a credit card with an initial credit
limit of £300.
In April 2019, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Ms account to £1,050. A further credit
limit increase, this time to £1,800, was implemented by NewDay on Mr Ms account in
September 2019.
In 2020, Mr M asked NewDay for financial assistance with his account. NewDay asked Mr M
to contact them by telephone to discuss his request, but Mr M advised NewDay that he only
wanted to correspond with them in writing. This ultimately meant that NewDay didnt
implement the financial assistance that Mr M had asked for because they hadnt been able
to discuss the matter with him, and Mr Ms account subsequently fell into arrears and was
eventually sold by NewDay to a third part debt purchasing company.
Mr M wasnt happy about this, and he didnt feel that the initial provision of credit or the later
credit limit increases had been affordable for him at those times. So, he raised a complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Ms complaint. They noted that they had undertaken checks into Mr
Ms financial position before approving his credit application and before increasing the credit
limit available to Mr M on his account. NewDay also felt that it was reasonable for them to
have asked to speak with Mr M about his request for financial assistance, despite Mr Ms
stated preference for written correspondence, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that, while it appeared that Mr M
could afford the initial provision of credit, they felt that Mr Ms financial position at the time of
the credit limit increases was such that NewDay should have concluded that those credit
limit increases might not be affordable for him and shouldnt be offered. Our investigator
therefore recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ms favour on that basis.
NewDay didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that 
any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Regarding Mr Ms initial application for credit in 2018, I feel that NewDay did that 
here. And I say this because when Mr M applied for the account at that time, he 
confirmed to NewDay that he had an annual income of £35,000 and didnt have a 
high amount of existing debt.
NewDay also obtained information from a credit reference agency to better 
understand Mr Ms wider financial position, and which included that Mr M didnt have 
any existing credit accounts that were in arrears or any active payday loans. And, 
while this information did include that Mr M had defaulted on credit accounts 
previously, the most recent of these defaults had taken place over three years before 
the time of the application, and I dont feel that the presence of these older defaults 
should have given NewDay any reasonable cause to not offer a credit account to Mr 
M with the relatively low initial credit limit of £300.
NewDay have also been able to demonstrate that they undertook reviews of how Mr 
M had managed his NewDay account, as well as refreshed their understanding of his 
wider financial position, to ensure that Mr M would in all likelihood be able to afford 
the credit limit increases that they offered to him in April and September 2019.
It's notable from the statements of Mr Ms NewDay credit account for the months 
leading up to the first credit limit increase in April 2019, that Mr M was maintaining 
the balance of the account below the agreed credit limit and didnt incur any over limit 
fees at that time. And, while Mr M did incur a late payment fee in April 2019, he was 
able to quickly make a payment above and beyond the minimum payment required 
on the account so as to ensure that the balance of the account continued to remain 
below the agreed credit limit.
Mr M has stated that he feels that the fact that he was maintaining the balance of the
account close to the credit limit and was only making close to the minimum payments
required on the account should have demonstrated to NewDay that he was struggling 
to manage the account such that they shouldnt have offered and further credit to 
him.
Im not convinced by Mr Ms position here, and I wouldnt expect NewDay to arrive at 
such a conclusion from account management such as Mr M describes. This is 
because I feel that an account holder making full use of a credit facility, as Mr M did 
here, can be an account management choice which I feel its reasonable for a credit 
account holder to make. As such, I wouldnt consider that a customer maintaining 
their account close to, but within, the credit limit of an account constitutes a 
necessary indicator of potential financial difficulty.
Furthermore, when NewDay obtained updated information about Mr M from a credit
reference agency before offering the credit limit increase to him, there was nothing in 
that updated information  which continued to include that Mr M wasnt in arrears on any of his other existing credit accounts, didnt have any active payday loans, and 
didnt have a high amount of existing credit in consideration of his previously 
declared annual income  which I feel should reasonably have given NewDay cause 
to not offer the credit limit increase to Mr M that they did. And I dont feel that the 
higher amount of credit provided to Mr M here, which increased from £300 to £1,050, 
was excessive given Mr Ms previously declared annual income.
I also find it difficult not to arrive at a similar conclusion regarding the second credit 
limit increase in September 2019, when the credit limit was increased from £1,050 to 
£1,800. And again this is because I dont feel that the account statements or the 
information that NewDay obtained from a credit reference agency prior to offering 
that second credit limit increase should have given NewDay any cause to suspect the 
Mr M might not be able to afford the higher amount of credit being offered to him at 
that time.
And, while I acknowledge that the credit limit on Mr Ms account had increased 
significantly when considered as a percentage of the originally provided credit 
amount  from £300 to £1,800  I dont feel that the provision of £1,800 credit to Mr 
M, given his previously declared annual income, his management of his NewDay 
credit account to that time, and the picture of Mr Ms wider financial position that 
NewDay were able to obtain from Mr Ms credit file information, was an excessive 
amount of credit for NewDay to offer and provide.
Mr M has also complained that, when a three-month payment holiday he had 
requested during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 was coming to an end, NewDay 
didnt implement his request for further financial assistance  which included a 
request from Mr M to not charge interest on his account at that time. And Mr M is 
also unhappy that NewDay continued to insist on speaking with him before agreeing 
to any further financial assistance, when Mr M wished to only correspond with 
NewDay in writing.
However, its notable that the three-month holiday that Mr M was initially granted by 
NewDay was a specific type of payment holiday mandated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at that time. And this type of payment holiday included the stipulation 
from the FCA that interest would continue to accrue on an account while the payment 
holiday was in place. It's also evident that this was explained clearly by NewDay to 
Mr M in the letter sent to Mr M dated 16 April 2020, which confirmed that the 
payment holiday would run until 15 July 2020 and that interest would continue to 
accrue on the account during the payment holiday period.
Its also notable that this letter recommended that Mr M continue to monitor the 
balance of his account and ensure that the balance of the account remained within 
the credit limit. Mr M has complained that it was the continuing accrual of interest on 
his account during this payment holiday that resulted in his account exceeding the 
credit limit, and that when the payment holiday ended in July 2020 with the balance 
of his account above the credit limit, NewDay applied charges to his account 
because of this.
But Im satisfied that NewDay continuing to apply interest to Mr Ms account during 
that payment holiday period was in line with the requirements of that payment holiday 
as laid out by the FCA, and Im also satisfied that NewDay gave Mr M fair notice of 
his responsibility to ensure that the balance of his account remained within the 
agreed credit limit, despite his not being obliged to make any payment during the 
payment holiday period.Finally, given the complex nature of the FCAs requirements on businesses in regard 
to the financial assistance they should offer to customers during that time, I dont feel 
that it was unreasonable for NewDay to be unwilling to agree to Mr Ms written 
financial assistance requests without first speaking with him  which NewDay have 
been able to confirm they requested of Mr M on several occasions. And this is 
especially the case given that one of Mr Ms requests be that NewDay remove the 
interest charged during the FCA prescribed  payment holiday, which as previously 
mentioned, was a payment holiday which included the provision from the FCA that 
interest continue to be charged.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that NewDay have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here, either in regard to the amount of credit that they provided to Mr 
M or in  regard to how they managed Mr Ms requests for financial assistance in 
2020. And it follows from this that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
NewDay didnt provide any further submissions. And while Mr M did voice his general 
disagreement with my provisional decision, he didnt provide any explanation as to what 
specific aspects of my provisional decision he didnt agree with or any new information for 
me to consider at this time. 
While I appreciate that this wont be the outcome Mr M wanted, given the above I see no 
reason not to issue a final decision in line with my provisional decision, and I can therefore 
confirm that my final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman