DRN-3118410
The complaint
Mr M has complained that his motor insurance provider Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) unfairly declined a claim for theft under his policy. Mr M is also unhappy about the 
way admiral recorded the claim.
What happened
Mr M has explained that he was attacked, and his car was stolen. So, he made a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
Admiral investigated Mr Ms claim for the theft of his car and having considered all the 
available evidence decided to decline it. Admiral said it did not accept the incident happened 
as Mr M had described and quoted the fraud condition in his policy when it explained his 
claim was declined and his insurance policy was cancelled. It would also not return any 
premium paid by Mr M, and would seek to recover any costs it had incurred.
Mr M felt Admiral had acted unfairly and brought his complaint to our service to be reviewed.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Admiral had made a fair and reasonable decision in line with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ms policy when declining his claim and cancelling his policy. Mr M disagreed with our 
Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to decide what happened during the incident. Instead I need to decide if 
Admiral has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator, for the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say that if he makes any false or exaggerated 
claims Admiral can refuse to pay the claim and cancel/void the policy.
Admiral has pointed to several inconsistences between the statements given to it and the 
police at different times by Mr M and the passengers in his car at the time of the event. While 
some of the inconsistences could be considered reasonable given the nature of the event 
and that this could have an impact on Mr Ms ability to recall specific details, I still think these 
details are relevant and help to build an overall picture of what happened.
Admiral has also looked at the crime report it obtained from the police alongside part of a 
video that was also provided. The police description of the event is that the video evidence 
shows a different account to that Mr M described. It also states that it appears Mr M 
knew the attackers and that there seemed to be a motive behind the attack itself.
The report goes on to say that Mr M was unsure if he wanted to make a complaint about the 
incident or not.
Two individuals were identified by fingerprints taken from the car but as Mr M failed to 
engage with the police, answer its calls, or make a victim statement the police closed the 
complaint.
The information provided by the police is important and forms part of a criminal investigation. 
The view of the police would also be persuasive given the powers and resources available to 
them.
I can see that Mr M has attempted to call the police several times following the incident but 
given the information available I think it would be reasonable for Mr M to have made more 
effort to contact the police to pursue his complaint. I have not seen any evidence that Mr M 
has managed to make a witness statement or made any significant effort to do so.
In addition to Mr M not making a formal complaint I can see that none of the passengers in 
his car made a complaint either.
Having considered all the information available I think Admiral came to a fair conclusion that 
the attack, and theft of Mr Ms car, did not happen in the way he said it did. It was likely the 
attackers knew Mr M and that there was a motivation for the attack from the outset.
I appreciate Mr M has responded to the points raised by Admiral, but this does not change 
my decision. 
In the circumstances terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, like that of other motor insurance 
policies, allow Admiral to cancel/void the insurance and recover the costs it has incurred 
from Mr M. Admiral is also required to make an accurate record of the incident on both its 
internal systems, and external databases that can be viewed by other insurance providers.
As Admiral has taken this approach to Mr Ms claim, I think it has acted reasonably and I 
dont think it should need to take any action to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman