DRN-3458103
The complaint
The estate of Mr R complains that Mr R was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement in the form 
of a personal contract plan (PCP) for a new car with Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
(TFS). It says this agreement wasnt suitable for Mr R and he hadnt understood its terms 
and conditions.
Mr R sadly died before his complaint was concluded and it has been handled on his behalf 
by an executor of his estate. Prior to his death Mr R was being assisted in his complaint by 
his son.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr R, who was aged 94, attended a car dealership he had previously used to 
acquire cars and chose a new car. He traded in his existing car for £270.47, paid a £7,000 
deposit and entered into a 42-month hire purchase agreement which was in the form of a 
PCP for the remaining cost of the car. At the end of the agreement Mr R could choose to pay 
a lump sum and keep the car, alternatively, he could choose to return it and pay nothing 
further or use the car in part-exchange for another one.
There was a delay in the new car being available and so the agreement wasnt activated 
until October 2019. 
Unfortunately, in June 2020 due to a health issue Mr R was advised he should no longer 
drive. Mr Rs son says his father had wanted to hand the car back and had also believed that 
he may get some money refunded if he did.
Mr Rs son contacted TFS on his fathers behalf and discovered that if the car was handed 
back then there would still be an outstanding amount to pay of around £14,000. TFS 
explained that under the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, if the 
agreement was terminated early, then half of the total amount of the credit borrowed had to 
be re-paid.
Mr Rs son says TFS advised them to sell the car and settle the agreement. He says that 
due to Covid, the value of the car had dropped and even after selling the car, an additional 
£7,000 had to be paid to settle the agreement.
A complaint was made to TFS on behalf of Mr R. Mr Rs son said that the dealership had 
mis-sold the hire purchase agreement to his father who hadnt understood the terms and 
conditions due to his poor health. And it would have been clear that due to his age this 
product was unsuitable for him.
TFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said the decision to lend to Mr R followed the criteria set 
by the FCA and that TFS took responsible lending very seriously. TFS said that it couldnt 
discriminate against consumers and Mr R had been a longstanding customer having taken 
out his first credit agreement for a car in 2007. TFS said Mr R had never missed a payment 
under the six finance agreements hed held over time with it and there were no comments or 
notes on his records to indicate ill-health or vulnerability.
TFS also said that Mr R had produced a valid driving licence which had been renewed in 
March 2019 and ran until 2022. 
Mr Rs son was unhappy at the response from TFS and complained to this service. He said 
that the dealership should have noticed how Mr R had deteriorated over the time theyd 
known him, and they had failed to ensure Mr R fully understood the finance agreement. Mr 
Rs son said that there was evidence that indicated his fathers declining health such as 
needing to be shown how to use the Sat Nav and having minor accidents.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint brought on Mr Rs behalf should be 
upheld. He said he didnt think TFS had done anything wrong as there was no evidence that 
Mr R lacked the capacity to understand the agreement or the commitment he would be 
entering into. Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair for TFS to have refused Mr R the credit 
agreement based only on his age though he appreciated the family concerns.
Mr Rs son disagreed with the view of our investigator. He says his father became 
increasingly unwell in his later years and this should have been clear to the dealership who 
knew him well as he would call in for coffee fairly regularly. He also says that his father had 
been the victim of scammers and had been considered vulnerable by the police. 
Mr Rs son says that his fathers intention had been to pay off the original PCP when hed 
visited the dealership and he had moved money so that he could do so, but had then instead 
purchased a new car via the finance agreement. Mr Rs son queried if the credit lending to 
his father had complied with the rules provided by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn that Mr R passed away in November 2020 and I would like to send my 
condolences to his family. I appreciate that their concern over events with the car will have 
caused them added distress.
Mr Rs son has queried what rules are in place to protect vulnerable people entering into 
credit agreements and in particular car finance. Ive seen that Mr Rs son has queried 
whether there was a breach of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 here. Looking at that 
legislation, which provides certain rights and remedies for consumers, I havent seen any 
particular rule that would have applied to Mr R solely because of his age.
The issue for me is whether TFS has treated Mr R fairly when agreeing to provide a credit 
agreement to him. Ive seen that the credit agreement was reviewed by an underwriter who 
considered that it was affordable for Mr R. However, I accept that affordability is only part of 
whether a credit agreement is suitable.
Although I dont know what was said to Mr R by the dealership nor why he decided to 
acquire a new car rather than paying off the PCP, I cant reasonably say that in itself 
indicates the dealership misled him. Mr R didnt need to attend the dealership to pay off his 
existing PCP. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr R going to the dealership and 
entering into a discussion about cars means its likely he was at least thinking about 
changing the car.
Ive seen the Statement of Demands and Needs form which was completed by the dealership when they discussed with Mr R about acquiring a new car. This document was 
signed by Mr R and shows the information he was given about the various credit agreements 
available. It also sets out a number of other products such as an extended warranty that 
could also be purchased.  Ive seen the dealership recommended the PCP because Mr R 
said he was happy to pay off a lump sum later. They also recommended a number of other 
products to him. Although Mr R opted for the PCP, he declined the additional products. And I 
think this shows Mr R was able to weigh up his options and choose what he wanted. He 
appears to have made informed choices.
If the dealership had misled or mis-sold the hire purchase agreement to Mr R, under section 
56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 then TFS, as the creditor, may be held liable for that.
Ive seen that Mr R has taken out a number of credit agreements for cars over the years. I 
also understand he knew the dealership that supplied the car well having had three cars 
previously under different credit agreements. Mr R had no adverse information on any of the 
accounts hed held and had always paid his monthly instalments. Over the years he has 
traded in cars and taken out new agreements. 
I appreciate Mr Rs sons concern that at 94 years old the dealership should have ensured 
his father understood the financial implications of the credit agreement and the commitment 
he was undertaking. He has raised his fathers deteriorating health and certain issues that 
have arisen over the years which caused the family concern.
Consumers can be considered vulnerable for a number of reasons, but I think its reasonable 
to say age alone is not necessarily a reason to presume someone will be unable to make an 
informed decision or require additional checks.  As set out by our investigator, the FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out guidance for firms when offering credit under 
a regulated credit agreement. CONC 2.10.4 says, A firm should assume a customer has 
mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by 
a person it reasonably believes should know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer 
lacks capacity. 
Mr Rs son says the dealership should have noted a number of factors that would have 
raised queries about his fathers capacity. However, Im afraid I disagree, and I will explain 
why.
I think its fair to take into account the number of credit agreements Mr R has had for various 
cars in the past. As set out above Mr R had managed these without any issue and had an 
excellent credit history. The evidence Ive seen indicates that Mr R was competent to handle 
his financial affairs.
Mr R was also considered competent to drive having renewed his driving licence about three 
months before he entered into this credit agreement. While I appreciate Mr R was growing 
frailer over the years, I dont think it would be fair to have expected the dealership to have 
asked any intrusive questions about his health unless Mr R was exhibiting clear symptoms 
that were a cause of concern. To have asked questions would have been discriminatory to 
Mr R. And although Mr Rs son has supplied detailed medical evidence, I havent seen 
anything that would suggest Mr R was clearly unwell or lacked capacity at the time he 
entered into this credit agreement. Mr R was advised to stop driving for medical reasons 
about eight months after he had acquired the car, and about one year after entering the 
agreement. 
Mr Rs son has raised that his father had needed assistance with the Sat Nav and also with 
pairing his mobile phone to the new cars when he received them. But I dont think this type of assistance necessarily points to a consumer lacking capacity. Nor does being involved in 
a minor accident as these can occur for a number of reasons. 
There was a delay in the car Mr R ordered being available and this meant that although Mr R 
had signed the credit agreement in June it wasnt actually activated until October. This would 
have allowed time for Mr R to reflect on whether this agreement was suitable for him. He 
didnt change his mind.
I can appreciate the concern about someone aged 94 entering into a 42-month credit 
agreement. Mr Rs son says his father believed he could hand the car back at any time 
without suffering any financial detriment though Im unclear whether Mr R was of this belief 
from the point he took out the agreement. I think its fair I also take into account that even if 
the credit agreement was ended early that although there was a risk of owing additional 
money when ending it, this wasnt necessarily always going to be the case as it depended  
on the value of the car at that point. TFS were agreeable to the car being sold by Mr R 
before settling the agreement. I dont have enough evidence to say that the dealership 
misled Mr R by telling him he could simply hand the car back at any time during the life of 
the contract and that there would be nothing further to pay.
I think looking at the number of previous agreements Mr R had had with TFS that it was 
reasonable for the dealership to have assumed he understood the terms and conditions of 
PCPs. I havent seen evidence that Mr Rs presentation at the time he took out this 
agreement was such that the dealership would have been aware that he was no longer able 
to understand them.
Looking at all the evidence, I think TFS has treated Mr R fairly when arranging this credit 
agreement.
So, for the reasons given above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Mr Rs son, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr Rs son, Im 
not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman