DRN-1657481
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to reissue a 
cheque it paid in 2008 to settle a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
The executors of Mr Ms estate, Mr and Mrs S represent the estate. So Ive referred to Mr 
and Mrs S.
What happened
In 2008, AXA sent Mr M a cheque to settle a cancellation claim hed made on his travel 
insurance policy. Sadly, Mr M passed away in 2017. Mr and Mrs S found the letter and 
cheque AXA had sent to Mr M uncashed. So in 2019, they got in touch with AXA to ask it to 
reissue the cheque to the estate.
AXA refused to reissue the cheque. It had sought advice from its legal team. It said it only 
had liability for the claim for up to six years from the date of the incident. As the cheque had 
been issued in 2008, it said it was outside of the maximum limit of its liability. It referred to 
the time limits for tort claims set out in the Limitations Act 1980. It said it had no 
responsibility for making sure a policyholder deposited a cheque.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with AXAs decision. They queried how the Limitation Act 1980 
applied to their situation. They felt, given Mr Ms personal circumstances around the time of 
the cheque being sent and in the years afterwards, it was unreasonable to impose a time 
limit on cashing the cheque. They were also unhappy because AXA had said itd destroyed 
its records relating to Mr Ms claim, but the broker whod arranged the policy still had details 
of it. They asked us to look into whether AXAs decision was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. She felt Mr M couldve cashed the 
cheque sooner and she referred to guidance on timeframes for the clearing and cashing of 
cheques. She didnt think AXA had needed to prompt Mr M to cash the cheque within six 
years.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They felt, given Mr Ms circumstances in the years around and 
following the cheque being sent, a term from the Bill of Exchange Act 1882 should apply. 
This term states that the late presentation of a payment can be excused if the delay was 
down to circumstances beyond the holders control.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AXA needs to reissue the cheque to Mr Ms estate. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly about this issue and I can understand why 
theyve sought payment of a debt they consider Mr Ms estate to be owed. But in making my 
decision, while I must take into account the relevant law and guidance, I need to decide what 
I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive seen a copy of the cheque and letter AXA sent to Mr M to settle his claim. At this point, 
AXA met its obligations under the terms of Mr Ms insurance contract with it to deal with his 
cancellation claim. The responsibility was then with Mr M to deposit the cheque with his 
bank. AXA had no obligation to chase Mr M up or let him know the standard six-month expiry 
date for a cheque was approaching.
Its also not entirely clear to me that Mr M didnt get the money. Its possible that he was sent 
a replacement cheque or settlement was made in another way. Given AXAs now destroyed 
its records in line with its data protection policies, it would be very difficult for AXA to check 
whether this was the case almost 12 years on. Id add that while the broker seems to have 
been able to access some records, this is a separate regulated business to AXA with its own 
systems. So I hope this reassures Mr and Mrs S that AXA hasnt sought to mislead them 
about the availability of its records.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs S have said about Mr Ms personal 
circumstances around the time the cheque was sent. I understand he was grieving for the 
loss of his wife; he had to move home, and his health was beginning to decline. So I do 
appreciate why cashing the cheque wasnt likely to have been a priority to Mr M.
But, I have to bear in mind that at that time, Mr M did have legal capacity to make his own 
decisions, including about his finances. Mr and Mrs S told us they assumed a power of 
attorney in 2016  around eight years after the cheque had been issued. And while I 
appreciate Mr M was going through a difficult time, I dont think I can reasonably find that he 
wouldve been prevented from depositing the cheque at an earlier opportunity and within the 
usual timescales. Id also add that I think its reasonable for AXA to rely on the fact that more 
than six years had passed between the date of the cheque being issued and the end of its 
liability for the claim in 2014. 
So overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, Ive decided AXA doesnt need to 
reissue the cheque to Mr Ms estate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S 
and the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman