DRN-4055245
The complaint
Mr S complains about the information National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) requested 
to open a basic bank account. Mr S has told us he feels NatWest discriminated against him 
when it asked for a letter from HMRC confirming his National Insurance number instead of 
accepting the information included on his Biometric Residence Permit (BRP).
What happened
My initial conclusions concerning Mr S complaint were set out in my provisional decision. I 
said: 
Last summer, Mr S applied for a bank account with NatWest. Mr S has told us he was 
initially advised he wouldnt need documentation to apply. But during the application 
process, Mr S was asked for a copy of a letter from HMRC that confirmed his National 
Insurance number. But Mr S has explained that he doesnt have a letter from HMRC with 
that information and that his National Insurance number is recorded on his BRP instead.  
NatWest said it wasnt able to complete the application process without the letter from 
HMRC.
Mr S has explained that both branch staff and agents he spoke with on the phone were 
unaware of the documents hed need to supply to complete an application. Mr S has also 
explained he felt discriminated against by the members of staff he spoke with and the 
information they provided about the documents required to open a bank account. Mr S 
complained to NatWest and it sent him a final response. NatWest apologised for the way Mr 
S application was handled and the service provided. NatWest said Mr S was welcome to 
visit a branch to complete another application. NatWest said it would monitor Mr S 
application and keep him updated if he chose to proceed.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They upheld the complaint and said 
they thought NatWest shouldve accepted Mr S BRP as evidence of his National Insurance 
number instead of insisting on a letter from HMRC. The investigator recommended that 
NatWest accept the BRP as proof of Mr S National Insurance number, work with him to 
complete a new basic bank account application if he wishes to apply again and pay him 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
NatWest agreed to the investigators recommendations and said it would assist Mr S if he 
chose to reapply. Mr S asked to appeal and said he didnt think the compensation offered 
fairly reflected the level of distress and inconvenience caused by NatWests actions. Mr S 
explained that hed been left without a bank account which meant he was unable to access 
benefits and that it still hadnt confirmed what documents were required to open a bank 
account. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Id also like to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is unable to make findings 
about whether discrimination has taken place in terms of the Equality Act 2010. Thats a 
matter of law and only the courts have the power to make a decision of that nature. I have 
taken the relevant law into account in relation to Mr S concerns and whether I think NatWest 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of factors into 
consideration, including the provisions made in The Equality Act 2010.
When Mr S was asked for evidence of his National Insurance number he provided his BRP. 
The BRP is issued by the government and includes Mr S National Insurance number on the 
back. I understand why NatWest wanted confirmation of Mr S National Insurance number, 
but I think it ought to have taken a pragmatic approach when he explained he didnt have an 
HMRC letter as requested. Given Mr S had a government issued BRP with the information 
NatWest was seeking to verify, I agree it shouldve considered using that instead of insisting 
on a letter from HMRC.
Mr S has explained that he found the service provided in branch and over the phone to be 
poor and feels NatWests staff discriminated against him during the application process. Mr 
S has explained that he feels NatWest treated him differently to other refugees due to the 
colour of his skin. And I can understand, given Mr S experience, why he feels this way. In 
line with what Ive said above, the Financial Ombudsman Service cant make a finding about 
whether NatWest discriminated against Mr S in terms of the Equality Act 2010  we decide 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis.
I think its reasonable to note that NatWest appears to have requested the same information 
from Mr S as it asks other customers making applications for a bank account. I agree that 
NatWests insistence on obtaining a specific letter from HMRC was unnecessary and that it 
failed to treat him fairly. But I havent seen anything that shows NatWests actions were 
deliberately targeted against Mr S  I think that this was a case where Mr S application 
shouldve been handled better rather than anything else.
Mr S has also told us he felt phone staff made discriminatory comments and failed to provide 
guidance that was suitable for his circumstances. Unfortunately we havent been able to 
listen to those calls. But I can understand how the information provided by NatWest made 
him feel, especially after being repeatedly asked to provide evidence of his National 
Insurance number when it was already available. And I can see how distressed Mr S was by 
the way his application was handled by NatWest.
In response to our investigator, Mr S advised that NatWest still hadnt provided a list of 
documents required to complete the account application. Our investigator asked NatWest to 
confirm what Mr S would need to submit. NatWest responded to say each application is 
handled individually and the documents required vary. But if Mr S is willing to apply again, 
NatWest has confirmed it will give him details of the documents it requires. As NatWest cant 
give a list of documents in advance, Im satisfied its given a reasonable alternative.
Mr S has explained he was left without a bank account and access to benefits when 
NatWest failed to take his application forward. As Ive said above, I agree that NatWesthandled Mr S application poorly. And I agree it ought to have considered using the BRP 
instead of insisting on a letter from HMRC. But I think its fair to note that other businesses 
offer bank accounts, in line with the one Mr S applied for with NatWest. So Mr S had the 
option of applying elsewhere to open a bank account and obtain benefits payments.
The Refugee Council, a charity that works with refugees and people seeking asylum, offers 
information and support to refugees and has produced a guide to getting started with 
applying for a bank account. The guide provides information about how to apply for bank 
accounts. Its done so because it recognises that refugees face many barriers, including 
major barriers to opening a bank account. As the Refugee Council says they typically do not 
have the documents that most banks require to set up a bank account, and often have 
limited knowledge of how the UK banking system works and the options available to them. 
Housing can be a major issue too. There are other organisations and services that also 
provide support for refugees, details of which can be found online.
Its clear from what Mr S has told us that he encountered similar difficulties and that he was 
going through a very difficult situation at the time he applied to NatWest. And Im satisfied 
the way his application was handled caused Mr S an unreasonable level of distress and 
inconvenience and, given everything else that was going on at the time, had a significant 
impact on him. Im not persuaded that the current award of £250 feels like a fair way to 
resolve Mr S complaint or reasonably reflects the upset caused and fallout for him. I think 
its fair to say that, given his circumstances, Mr S should reasonably have expected NatWest 
to be more helpful. And Im satisfied that declining to proceed with the application on the 
basis not having a letter from HMRC when a reasonable alternative was available has 
unfairly impacted Mr S.
In my view, a payment of £250 isnt a fair reflection of the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused by NatWests actions. Having considered all the available information, I think a 
payment of £500 more fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S 
at a very difficult time. So, Im going to uphold Mr S complaint and provisionally increase the 
award to £500 on that basis.
In addition to the above compensation, should Mr S wish to reapply, Im also going to tell 
NatWest to work with him to complete a new basic bank account application and provide 
support.
I invited both parties to respond by 29 March 2023 with any further information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr S confirmed he was willing to accept. We 
didnt hear back from NatWest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. As a result, Im going to proceed in line with my provisional 
decision and uphold Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
settle as follows: - Should Mr S wish to reapply, NatWest should accept his BRP as evidence of his 
National Insurance number
- Should Mr S wish to reapply, NatWest should work with him to complete a new basic 
bank account application
- NatWest should notify Mr S if his application is successful. If not, NatWest should 
explain the reasons why
- Pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman