DRN-4379495
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd (trading as DFH Financial 
Solutions) didnt administer his debt management plan properly.
What happened
Mr G started a debt management plan through DFH in late 2021. According to DFH, he only 
made 6 of the 15 scheduled payments, and only 4 of those were for the right amount. In late 
2022, Mr G declined to do a review, and DFH explained that it couldnt continue the plan if it 
couldnt confirm that the payments were sustainably affordable. Mr G still didnt do a review, 
so DFH terminated the plan.
Mr G has complained about the plans closure. He also felt DFH misled him about its length 
and cost, and he said his creditors told him DFH didnt communicate with them sufficiently. 
DFH has acknowledged our services correspondence but has not responded.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and DFH a provisional decision on 19 September 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
From what Mr G has given us, it looks like DFH did clearly set out the plans estimated 
length and cost. And it made it clear this was an estimate based on what Mr G had told them 
and based on him making all the proposed payments. As I understand, Mr G did not make 
all his payments and he tried to reduce the amount he paid  so of course that would mean 
his plan would take longer.
DFH also set out that it would need to review things with Mr G every so often to make sure 
the payments were sustainably affordable, which seems reasonable. And its terms stated 
that DFH may terminate the agreement if Mr G repeatedly broke the agreement, failed to 
make his payments, or if it wasnt able to review the plan with him. It doesnt seem to be in 
dispute that Mr G missed payments and didnt complete the required review. So it seems 
reasonable that DFH closed the plan. It was required to give Mr G at least two weeks notice 
before doing so, and it looks like it gave him more than three weeks notice.
It is currently unclear how well DFH communicated with Mr Gs creditors, whether it 
negotiated on his behalf appropriately, and whether it took the right amount of fees and 
passed on the right amounts to his creditors. Apparently, Mr Gs creditors felt DFH had 
minimal communication with them. In its final response letter, DFH said it ran the plan 
appropriately. But neither side have provided any evidence which substantiates this either 
way. For example, DFH hasnt provided its contact with Mr Gs creditors, nor any evidence of 
what it did with Mr Gs money. And the onus is on DFH to evidence that it administered the 
plan to the proper standard.
Im not sure why DFH has chosen not to engage with our service, as from what it said in its 
final response letter, it sounds like it may be possible for it to evidence its side of things. But 
it has so far chosen not to defend itself, and so I dont have sufficient evidence to be 
reasonably satisfied that it provided the service Mr G paid for to the standard required. It 
follows that based on the evidence I have so far, I cannot fairly or reasonably conclude that 
DFH administered Mr Gs plan appropriately overall.
Since I am not currently satisfied that DFH provided the full service paid for to the quality 
required, I currently think it should refund the fees it took. I also plan to direct it to refund any 
amounts it was supposed to pass onto creditors and didnt, just in case it failed to pass on 
any particular payments. And I plan to direct DFH to add simple interest onto those refunds, 
at the rate of 8% simple a year, to compensate Mr G for the time he was without that money. 
This is the same rate the courts use in situations like this.
I understand that Mr G has faced further financial trouble such as CCJs and a worse credit 
score. But DFH did warn him that the plan might have severe consequences for his credit file 
and that it couldnt guarantee his lenders would not take legal action. And even if DFH had 
done everything perfectly right, as Mr G did not make his agreed payments and did not 
review things with DFH, the plan would have failed anyway due to his own actions and he 
would still have most likely faced much the same consequences. So I must keep in mind 
what Mr G is responsible for as well. I do not currently plan to award any compensation in 
addition to the refunds and simple interest.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
3 October 2023. Mr G accepted the provisional decision. DFH didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd to:
Refund the fees that Mr G paid;
Refund any amounts which it was supposed to pass onto Mr Gs creditors but did 
not; and-
Pay simple interest to Mr G on the above, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable 
from the date each fee was charged and the date of each payment it missed until the 
date theyre refunded;
 If DFH considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell Mr G how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr G may be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if he doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part, and direct Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd to put things 
right in the way I set out above.
If Mr G accepts this final decision, Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd must carry out the 
redress within 28 days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman