DRN-2802807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nemo Personal Finance Limited charged them too much 
interest on their loan, and failed to clearly show the interest on their statements.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs G took out a joint loan. They say that the loan statements did not clearly 
show how much interest had been charged, so that when they were approaching the date on 
which they had expected the loan to be paid off, in 2020, they were surprised to find that 
more money was still outstanding. They have since paid off all that Nemo said they owed, 
but they dispute how the interest was calculated, since some additional interest seemed to 
have been charged on arrears which they had paid off four years earlier.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Nemo, and then they brought this complaint to our service. But 
our investigator did not uphold it. She said that the loan account had been in arrears for most 
of the time it had been in existence, and that interest had been accruing daily on the 
balance. So although the arrears had eventually been paid off, the total interest had grown to 
be more than it would have been if there had been no arrears. Since the monthly 
repayments had been set on the basis that they would all be paid on time, they had not been 
enough to pay off the increased balance  so some money had still been outstanding at the 
end of the term originally agreed.
Mrs G did not accept that opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The loan account was in arrears almost continuously from 2009 to 2016. The arrears were 
then paid off, but meanwhile interest had been calculated daily on the total balance. Since 
that balance had included the arrears, it had been higher than it would have been if there 
had never been any arrears, and so more interest was charged than there would have been 
too. But after clearing the arrears, Mr and Mrs G continued to pay the same monthly 
instalments that they had been paying all along. Since the amount of those payments had 
been calculated on the assumption that no extra interest would be charged (because it was 
not expected that the account would fall into arrears), they were no longer enough to repay 
the entire loan by the end of the agreed term. There was still some left over, representing the 
additional interest.
I accept that explanation, and so I dont think Mr and Mrs G have been overcharged. Nor do 
I think they have been misled, since this was all explained to them in a number of letters 
which Nemo sent them. They deny that they received all of these letters, but it does not 
appear to be in dispute that they received Nemos final response letter in July 2015, in which 
this matter was addressed and explained. I have also seen the arrears letters which Nemo 
says it sent in 2015 and 2016  and I accept that they were sent  and they are all correctly 
addressed. Mrs G says that Nemo should have sent them by recorded delivery, but Nemo 
was under no obligation to do that. Ordinary post is enough, and if any letters were not 
delivered, then that would not be Nemos fault. However, I dont need to say any more about 
that, because at least one letter was received, and it explains the matter clearly. Specifically, 
it warned that the loan would not be fully repaid on time, if only the contractual monthly 
payments were made, because additional interest had been charged, daily, on the arrears.
I can also see, in Nemos contact notes, that this matter was also explained to Mrs G on the 
phone, in three calls in 2015. So I think the position was made clear.
I think this is also mentioned in the annual statements. Under the heading Paying less than 
the agreed sum, it says:
If you pay less than your agreed payment in most cases it is likely to take you 
longer and may cost you more to pay off the debt under the agreement.
I think that is clear, and the statements also clearly set out the total outstanding balance, so 
I cannot agree that the statements are deficient.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman