DRN-3334679
The complaint
Ms H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund a payment which has been made as 
the result of a scam. Her husband, Mr H, is an additional cardholder on her credit card 
account. The disputed payment was made using his card.
As the credit card account was in Ms Hs name, only she can bring the complaint. That is the 
case even though Mr H was an additional card holder and the disputed payment has been 
made by him, using his card. So for simplicity I shall mainly refer to Ms H, unless where 
there is a need to distinguish the actions taken by Mr H.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
Around May 2020, Mr H came across an investment opportunity with a firm Ill refer to as M. 
He funded the investment by making a payment of £465.50 using his card. The payment 
was made to a merchant Ill refer to as G.  A few days after, Mr H decided, and informed 
Ms representative that he did not wish to proceed with the investment. Despite making 
several requests to M, asking it to return the deposit  no funds were returned. 
Ms H contacted Sainsburys Bank for assistance with recovering the money. Ultimately, it 
said there were no grounds to raise a chargeback and the transaction was not covered 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, it recognised that it had not 
responded to Ms Hs complaint in a timely manner and offered £50 compensation in 
recognition of the delay.
Ms H was unhappy with this response and the complaint was referred to our service. One of 
our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary he didnt think 
Sainsburys Bank had acted unfairly when concluding Ms H didnt have a valid chargeback 
or section 75 claim. Ms H disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its common ground that the disputed payment was authorised for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). The starting position is that liability for an 
authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into doing so, for example 
as part of an investment scam. And Id only be able to direct Sainsburys Bank to pay the 
loss if Im persuaded that it made a mistake when processing the payment or if it has treated 
Ms H unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those funds.  
Ms H says that Sainsburys Bank should safeguard its card holders interests to protect them 
from dubious transactions. She argues the disputed payment of £465.50 is an unusually 
excessive amount compared to the usual weekly spending (which she says ranges between 
£120 and £150) on her credit card account. She strongly feels the disputed payment to G 
ought to have prompted further enquiries. 
Of course, in hindsight now knowing this payment was made as a result of fraud, its easy to 
say the Sainsburys Bank ought to have intervened. But I want to start by highlighting the 
general expectation is for a credit card provider to process payments that its card holder 
instructs it to make without undue delay. And that it would not be practical or reasonable to 
expect it to intervene in every single transaction made. However, in accordance with the law, 
regulations and good industry practice, a credit card provider has a duty to protect its card 
holders against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of 
that duty, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its card holder as a result. 
So, the question I have to answer is whether I can reasonably say at the material time the 
activity should have triggered Sainsburys Banks alert systems and/or it ought to have had 
concerns about fraud or scams. And whilst Ms H says the disputed payment was more than 
previous spending on the account, I dont think it was sufficiently large, suspicious or 
unusual enough to have triggered Sainsburys Banks alert systems. I also cant fairly say 
based on the activity that Sainsburys Bank ought to have had reason to suspect Ms H was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud which should have led to it intervening  such as making 
enquiries or giving a scam warning. In these circumstances Im satisfied that it would be too 
high a burden to expect Sainsburys Bank to become suspicious of fraud or financial crime 
just on the basis of a single payment of £465.50. I say this because it isnt unusual for credit 
card holders to use their cards from time to time for one off or larger expenses. Nor have I 
seen any evidence that would suggest that Sainsburys Bank had internal information that G 
or M were operating fraudulently at the time of the payment. 
So in these specific circumstances I dont think there were sufficient grounds for 
Sainsburys Bank to have intervened and/or done more at the point the payment was 
processed. As the payment was authorised, the only options available to try to recover the 
funds was through chargeback which would be subject to the relevant scheme rules  here 
Mastercard, or under section 75.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. There is no right to a chargeback. It is for the regulated 
card issuer (here Sainsburys Bank) to decide if it has a basis upon which it can pursue a 
chargeback. Sainsburys Bank are bound by the card scheme providers rules. And even 
where a chargeback is raised it isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. 
Our Investigator has already explained in some detail the information our service has 
obtained directly from Mastercard about payments going to any sort of investment. In short, 
there is very limited protection under the scheme rules. The scheme also doesnt provide 
chargeback rights where the nature of the claim is that the card holder has fallen victim to a 
scam. So, having considered all the information Ms H had provided at the time I dont think 
Sainsburys Bank has treated her unfairly in concluding that the claim didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success under the scheme rules and in deciding not to pursue a 
chargeback.I realise that Ms H has found it difficult to understand why this transaction was not protected 
by section 75 as her understanding of the situation was that payments made by credit card 
were protected. She is correct, that section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim 
for a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have 
against the supplier of goods or services. But crucially for a section 75 claim to apply there 
are a number of criteria that need to be met, one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement between the parties.
In this case: 
- Ms H was the debtor, since she was the named holder of the credit card account 
used to pay G. As an additional card holder, Mr H is not an account holder in his own 
right. 
- Sainsburys Bank, as the issuer of the card, was the creditor. 
- Ms Hs claim is that M misrepresented itself and it didnt provide Mr H with the 
services it had agreed to. So for the purposes of the DCS agreement and based on 
everything Ive seen M was the supplier.
The effect of this is that, if Ms H (as the debtor) has a claim against M, she can bring the 
same claim against Sainsburys Bank. However, for Ms H to have a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation, she must have had a contract with M. Ms H has explained 
that it was Mr H that had entered into the agreement with M and shes been very clear that 
she had no involvement. All the correspondence Ive seen with M has also been between 
Mr H and M  not Ms H. So Im satisfied Ms H was not the contracting party and that she 
therefore could not have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against M. It 
follows that she could not have a valid claim under section 75.    
And even if I were wrong about the above, the payment Ms H disputes wasnt made to M  it 
was made to G. So, for Ms Hs claim to be covered under the joint liability provision of 
section 75 I would need to see evidence that would satisfy me that G were a party to the 
contract as there is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a third party who 
was not privy to the DCS relationship. Ive not seen the required evidence that persuades 
me that the parties involved in this situation had the necessary relationships with each other 
to give Ms H the protection of section 75. 
So to conclude, I cant fairly say Sainsburys Bank ought to have done more under 
section 75 or that it has treated Ms H unfairly by declining her claim.
And finally, whilst Ms Hs complaint to our service has focussed on the claim itself. For 
completeness Ive also considered the £50 compensatory offer Sainsburys Bank has made 
for the delay in responding to her complaint. I think the offer is fair. I understand at the time 
Ms H rejected this offer. But if shed like to accept this, she should contact Sainsburys Bank 
directly.  
I appreciate this decision will likely come as a disappointment to Ms H but for the reasons 
Ive explained above Im not persuaded that Sainsburys Bank ought to have blocked or 
intervened in the disputed payment, and neither do I think it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme or section 75. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Sainsburys Bank PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Ms Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman