DRN-3772192
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MBNA Limited did not meet her claim for a refund and compensation in 
respect of a holiday that was cut short due to the Covid-19 pandemic
What happened
Mrs B booked a trip to Asia for her and her family through a travel agent I shall call C, taking
part in March 2020. The trip consisted of flights, accommodation, and excursions across a
number of different countries. The trip cost around £6,700 and Mrs B paid instalments of
£3,372 and £2,000 on her MBNA credit card. The balance of the trip was funded with an
alternative payment source.
A few days into the trip Mrs B said she was told by a tour guide that the last country she was
due to visit was no longer accepting visitors. Having first validated this with the Vietnamese
embassy, Mrs B said she contacted C in an attempt to make alternative arrangements but
was told she would need to pay an additional £1,900 to get on a flight home. When later
questioned on the matter by MBNA, C said Mrs B had already booked flights home before it
had a chance to offer her something. It said it also offered an alternative destination to
continue her trip.
Meanwhile Mrs B said she had to stay in a hotel in Cambodia two days longer than planned
because she was unable to cross the border into Vietnam and continue her trip. Mrs B said
the hotel wanted more money from her because she was only booked to stay there one
night. C eventually arranged to pay for the additional nights.
Unable to agree suitable alternative arrangements with C, Mrs B said she booked her own
flights home from Cambodia to the UK at a cost of around £1,600. Mrs B and her family
returned to the UK on 13 March 2020, a week earlier than planned and having not been able
to utilise any of the services booked in Vietnam.
Mrs B asked C to refund the cost of the holiday, her additional flight and telephone costs and
pay her compensation  totalling around £12,400. C offered to refund around £2,400 which it
said consisted of the flight home Mrs B paid for and the parts of her trip for which it had been
able to secure refunds from the ground suppliers.
Unhappy with this Mrs B asked MBNA to meet her claim. MBNA successfully recovered the
payment of £3,372 via the chargeback process. But it said C defended a chargeback for the
second payment of £2,000. MBNA also considered its liability to Mrs B under Section 75
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and offered to pay Mrs B an additional £759.19 for
services it felt hadnt been provided by C and around £150 for the cost of calls she had to
make while abroad  meaning the total offer to Mrs B, including the sum recovered via
chargeback, was £4,131.10.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 setting out why I didnt think MBNA needed 
to do any more in respect of Mrs Bs complaint. I said:
In this case, I am looking at whether MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in the way it
handled Mrs Bs request for a refund and additional compensation. This will take into
account the circumstances of the problem and how the supplier has acted, but also the
chargeback card scheme rules a bank has to follow as well as its obligations to Mrs B.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a
payment a consumer has made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
MBNA successfully recovered Mrs Bs payment to C of £3,372 via chargeback. It also tried
to recover the payment of £2,000 via the same process but this was defended by C. Its not
entirely clear why C defended one but not the other. Nevertheless, I dont find MBNA treated
Mrs B unfairly by not pursuing the other chargeback further.
Under the relevant chargeback scheme rules Mrs B could make a claim for services she had
not received. But its unlikely she could recover the cost of those she had received. And the
scheme makes no provision to claim for payments not made on Mrs Bs credit card, or for
additional compensation such as the cost of her replacement flights or loss of enjoyment.
Looking at the evidence that had been supplied to MBNA when it initiated the chargeback,
Mrs B hadnt provided an itemised cost breakdown of the different travel services, shed just
asked for the whole cost of the trip to be returned. On the other hand it appears C was able
to provide such a breakdown  albeit a very rough one  which showed what Mrs B had and
had not received.
Looking at this breakdown along with the sum Mrs B had already recovered from C via
chargeback, I dont find her claim for another £2,000 was bound to succeed had it been
pursued more robustly by MBNA. The sum recovered via the other chargeback looked on
the face of it to have exceeded the parts of the trip Mrs B hadnt received. So MBNA didnt
treat Mrs B unfairly by not pursuing the chargeback further.
Section 75
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case, I am required to give consideration to
relevant law. This includes Section 75 which says that, in certain circumstances, the
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if
theres either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or
services.
Mrs B purchased a package of travel services put together by C. This meant certain terms
were implied in her contract with it by the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements
Regulations 2018 (PTR). Some of these terms required C to offer Mrs B suitable alternative
arrangements of equivalent or higher quality in the event it was unable to provide a
significant proportion of the package. And in the event it could not do so, or if Mrs B had
grounds under the regulations to reject those alternative arrangements, she was entitled to
an appropriate price reduction and potentially additional compensation. C was also required
to repatriate her at no cost in such circumstances.
It is clear that C was unable to provide a significant part of the package here  thats not indispute. Mrs B and C have given different accounts of whether comparable alternatives were
offered by C and, if so, when. Without call recordings its difficult to know exactly what was
discussed. But from what I have seen, Im not persuaded that Mrs B was offered comparable
alternative arrangements by C. So, she could rely on the terms implied by the PTR to claim
an appropriate price reduction and possibly additional compensation. I say possibly in
respect of additional compensation because there are limiting factors on this in both the PTR
and her contract with C which I will analyse more fully in due course.
Ive thought about whether the sum Mrs B has recovered so far amounts to a suitable price
reduction and if she would be due additional compensation.
An appropriate price reduction in Mrs Bs case is likely to be the part of the package she
didnt receive. Mrs B has supplied the full itinerary for her trip  albeit without cost
attachments to each item on it. It is not disputed by either party which parts Mrs B did not
receive but rather the value that should be attached to those parts and whether Mrs B was
due additional compensation.
I explained earlier that C provided MBNA with a rough breakdown of the costs of different
travel services in the package. This consisted of:
Flight costs: £2,521.30
Bangkok ground arrangements: £880
Cambodia & Vietnam ground arrangements: £2,360
ATOL and SAFI fees: £14
MBNA said it assumed all flights apart from the return flight were used. That is not quite
correct because Mrs B did not utilise an internal flight in Vietnam. I dont know however what
that flight cost. I looked for a similar flight with the same airline at a similar time for two adults
and two children and the cost was around £220. I find this to be the fairest way of attaching
value to this fight in the absence of a proper cost breakdown.
Turning to the return flight, MBNA said it was fair to apportion some of the £4,131.10 Mrs B
recovered to the cost of the replacement flights she booked. I think thats fair. Mrs B cannot
claim both the cost of original flight and the replacement because that would put her in a
better position than she should otherwise be in. On the other hand Mrs B should not have
been put to additional expense to get home so its fair she receives the cost of the
replacement flight back.
MBNA said it was reasonable that Mrs B pay for the Bangkok ground arrangements because
she received these in full. I agree.
It is again difficult to apportion exact value to the parts of the Cambodia and Vietnam ground
arrangements that Mrs B did not receive because they are not itemised. It is true to say that
Mrs B booked more excursions in Vietnam than she did in Cambodia, and she was due to
stay there longer. MBNA said the fairest way to look at this was that Mrs B didnt get nine
days of a 12 day Cambodia and Vietnam tour so she should receive three quarters of the
cost the supplier attached to the Cambodia and Vietnam ground arrangements - which it
said amounted to around £1,770. Again, in the absence of an exact cost breakdown, or a
suggestion of a fairer way to work things out, I find this to be a reasonable way of calculating
an appropriate cost apportionment.
So overall, Mrs B didnt receive one internal flight, and a combination of accommodation andexcursions in Vietnam. And fair sums to attach to those items would be, £220 and £1,770
respectively. Thinking about this in the context of the terms implied by the PTR, an
appropriate price reduction in this case looks to have been around £1,990.
Mrs B also claimed compensation for the stress she and her family were caused, what she
said was a loss of respite for her disabled daughter and telephone calls she had to make
while abroad. I have every sympathy for Mrs B in this respect and I know she must have
been caused a lot worry during what was supposed to be a time of enjoyment. I have no
doubt the part of the trip that Mrs B was able to complete was affected by the worry of not
knowing how the trip would continue or how she would get home. And C did not look to have
helped matters by trying to charge her to get home when it should have been arranging this
at no cost to her.
I take note of the general position the courts might take in respect of compensation for non-
financial loss for breach of contract where there is an element of enjoyment to that contract 
such as holidays. In such cases the courts have been known to make modest compensation
awards.
However, compensation cannot be claimed under the PTR in respect of a lack of conformity
where it is proven by C to be the result of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances. And
Mrs Bs contract with C makes similar express provisions limiting its liability for
compensation where the contract is improperly performed.
Looking at the facts, it was the decision of the Vietnamese government to prohibit entry to
UK nationals that prevented the trip from continuing  and which would undoubtedly have
affected Cs ability to offer suitable comparable alternatives. It seems likely here that C could
have proved its failure to perform the contract properly was the result of unavoidable and
extraordinary circumstances.
However even I am wrong on that point, I still dont think MBNA needs to pay any additional
compensation to Mrs B for the following reason.
Mrs B has recovered £4,131.10 in total from MBNA. Subtracting the cost of her replacement
flight leaves £2,514. I said earlier that an appropriate price reduction would be £1,990. So,
Mrs B has already received around £600 more than the appropriate price reduction she was
entitled to.
Against this backdrop and reminding myself again of the modest sums often awarded by the
courts in the event Mrs B was able to claim for additional compensation, I dont think Mrs B
has been treated unfairly by MBNA.
Overall therefore, I dont find MBNA treated Mrs B unfairly in respect of the way it assessed
her claim for a refund and compensation. I find it has paid her a fair sum taking account of
the chargeback scheme rules and its obligations to her in respect of Section 75. I know this
will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and as Ive said, I really do sympathise with the
position she found herself in.
Service
MBNA accepted it took too long to deal with Mrs Bs claim to begin with and offered to pay
her £75. There were service failings but taking into account the unprecedented
circumstances and operational challenges faced by the banks at this time, as well as the fact
that chargebacks were raised quickly after the failing was identified, I dont assess this at
more than the £75 MBNA has already paid to Mrs B. So, MBNA has already provided faircompensation.
Mrs B did not agree with my provisional decision.
MBNA said it had nothing further to add. 
The complaint has therefore returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments in response to my provisional decision. Her strength of 
feeling about the matter is understandably clear. But I havent been persuaded the findings I 
reached were unfair or unreasonable. My provisional decision (as set out above) deals with 
the points Mrs B has raised.  
MBNA has handled Mrs Bs claim fairly taking into account its liability to her under Section 
75 and what it did via the chargeback process. She has received the cost of the replacement 
flight, the fairly apportioned cost of the parts of the holiday that were missed, a sum of 
around £600 in addition to this and fair compensation for any service failings. MBNA does 
not need to pay her any more than this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA has done enough to put things right for Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman