DRN-3414870
The complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover the money she lost to 
an investment scam.
 
What happened
In November 2017, Ms H came across Greenfields Capital on the internet when she was 
looking to invest money. She registered her interest and was subsequently contacted by a 
representative of Greenfields Capital who told her that returns on investment trading were 
considerably higher than on savings accounts. Ms H was told about the opportunity to earn 
up to £3,000 each month and was persuaded to invest with Greenfields Capitals.
Ms H was assigned an account manager who executed trades on her behalf. She started 
with an initial deposit of £250 and was persuaded to invest more money after seeing the 
profits that were supposedly being made. Ms H even received some return on her 
investment to entice her to invest further sums. 
The following transactions were made to Greenfields Capital:
Date Type Amount
20 November 2017 Debit card £250
21 November 2017 Debit card £5,000
21 November 2017 Debit card £4,850
21 November 2017 Credit £100
24 November 2017 Debit card £5,000
24 November 2017 Debit card £4,999
24 November 2017 Debit card £10,000
27 November 2017 Credit £500
7 December 2017 Debit card £10,000
7 December 2017 Debit card £9,999
7 December 2017 Debit card £5,001
7 December 2017 Credit £1,250
8 December 2017 Debit card £10,000
21 December 2017 Debit card £10,000
21 December 2017 Debit card £5,001
21 December 2017 Debit card £5,000
8 January 2018 Credit £3,000
Total payments £85,100
Total credits £4,850
Total loss £80,250
Ms H eventually realised she had been scammed after a withdrawal request in January 2018 
was declined. She complained to Greenfields Capital directly and also contacted Action 
Fraud. Ms H reported the matter to HSBC in March 2018. It presented a chargeback and 
temporarily refunded the disputed transactions. But the chargeback was successfully 
defended, and HSBC reversed the monies it had temporarily returned to Ms H. 
Ms H referred her complaint to our service, and it was considered by two investigators. Both 
upheld it but for different reasons. 
The first investigators view was that HSBC ought to have taken the chargeback to 
arbitration by the card scheme operator, Visa in this case. And had it done so, it was most 
likely that Visa would have ruled in favour of Ms H. In addition to refunding the payments 
along with interest, the investigator recommended £200 compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms H.
Another investigator reconsidered the complaint following further clarification from Visa 
regarding the chargeback process. She thought that HSBC didnt act unfairly in not taking 
the chargeback request further. But it ought to have intervened when Ms H made the third 
payment as there were fraud triggers by then. And had HSBC done so, the investigator 
thought that Ms H wouldnt have gone ahead with it and the subsequent payments. It was 
also her view that Ms H would have been able to provide HSBC with the information 
necessary to meet any chargeback requirements for the first two payments. She therefore 
asked HSBC to reimburse the transactions in full and add interest.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2022 and said that I planned to uphold this 
complaint, but the redress I intended to award was different to what the investigator 
recommended. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Ms H said that she didnt have 
any further comments to make. HSBC agreed to settle the complaint in accordance with my 
provisional decision as a goodwill gesture and without admission of liability. 
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. What follows below is my provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the information Ive found during my research on Greenfields Capital, Im satisfied that 
it wasnt a legitimate trader. There are warnings published about it on the Investor Alerts 
Portal of the International Organisation Securities Commissions (IOSCO) by 
Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores in Panama, as well as by the Czech National 
Bank. And a warning has also been published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
While I think that Greenfields Capital was likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme 
rules dont automatically entitle Ms H to a refund based on these circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to 
investments, but those rights are very narrow. Reason Code 53 (later changed to 13.5) 
allows claims for misrepresentation for investments where the merchant refuses to allow the 
cardholder to withdraw available balances. But Visa requires very specific evidence  a copy 
of the cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the 
available balance at the time the withdrawal request was made. My role is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the card issuer (HSBC in this case) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder. From the information Ive 
seen, it doesnt appear as though all the required information was available when the 
chargeback request was presented. Ms H provided a copy of the email she sent to 
Greenfields Capital requesting a withdrawal. But the screenshot of the trading account 
balance she provided isnt dated. 
Even though HSBC attempted a chargeback, the evidence supplied doesnt meet Visas 
requirements. It doesnt appear that Ms H was in possession of evidence showing the 
available balance on the date of the withdrawal request when she contacted HSBC. Or, that 
she would have been able to provide it if HSBC had requested it at the time. In the 
circumstances, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in not progressing the chargeback 
request. Im also not persuaded that it would have been successful in recovering the first two 
payments in the way suggested by the second investigator. 
I would also add here, that had Ms H been able to provide the evidence Visa requires, she 
wouldnt have been entitled to all of the transactions shes disputed  only to the withdrawal 
amount, or the available balance at the time of the withdrawal request. 
The next question Ive considered is whether HSBC ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Ms H using her legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which Ms H is liable unless 
theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect her and 
that this would have made a difference to her decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. HSBC ought to have 
been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, 
to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper Banks 
Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it 
was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of types of scams 
and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police etc.
While the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be updated, 
its not unreasonable to expect an international bank, like HSBC, to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgement, such alerts should automatically trigger the banks fraud prevention 
systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making 
enquiries of the customer about the payment or giving a scam warning.
Here, there were no regulator warnings in place about Greenfields Capital when Ms H made 
the payments in dispute. An IOSCO alert was first published on 13 March 2018. And the 
FCAs warning was published on 18 April 2018. In the circumstances, I wouldnt have 
expected HSBC to have picked up payments to Greenfields Capital as being suspicious 
based on the merchant name alone. 
But this isnt the end of the matter. Ive considered the operation of Ms Hs account in the 
year leading up to the disputed payments. This is to determine whether the transactions 
were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think HSBC ought to have intervened. The account 
statements show that it wasnt unusual for Ms H to make large-value payments from her 
account. For instance, there was an external or third-party payment for £14,000 in October 
2017, as well as a cheque payment for £10,300 in April 2017. 
So, the disputed payments when considered individually dont appear to be so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that HSBC ought to have intervened. That said, I consider the account 
activity was unusual when the third payment to Greenfields Capital on 24 November 2017  
for £10,000  was authorised. The proximity and the substantial increase in the value of the 
payment ought to have triggered HSBCs systems. It was the third payment to Greenfields 
Capital that day, and sixth overall within a few days. I consider it would have been 
reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned Ms H before processing this payment.     
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Ms H about the payments, Ive 
no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was doing. And while I accept 
that HSBC didnt have a duty to protect Ms H from a poor investment choice, or give 
investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to 
ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate merchant  
such as checking that Greenfields Capital was registered or licensed with the Gambling 
Commission (which it was required to do at the time of the payments). 
While it is not up to our service to dictate what questions a bank should ask, HSBC could 
have, for example, asked how Ms H had been contacted, whether she had parted with 
personal details in order to open a trading account, whether the investment opportunity was 
linked to a prominent individual, or advertised on social media etc. These are all typical 
features of investment scams  and form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a 
consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. 
Although theres no reason to doubt that Ms H would have explained what she was doing, 
I accept it is possible that she might not have revealed enough information to lead HSBC to 
understand whether she was at risk of financial harm from this particular type of fraud (or 
any type for that matter). I cant know for certain what would have happened. However, 
I reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities, but rather on what I find most 
probable to have happened in the circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied that Ms H 
would have likely shared information which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam, 
as she had been given no reason to think she had to hide this information from her bank, 
and neither had she been coached to tell them something different.
HSBC could have also explained its own customers experiences with unregulated and 
unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances and trading accounts could be manipulated. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with binary options and CFDs, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the FCAs consultation 
paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions scam warning of December 2016; 
City of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary 
options fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its 
chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from 
merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth).
Theres no evidence that HSBC provided Ms H with any meaningful warnings or gave her 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments she was making.  Had it done so, Im 
satisfied that Ms H would have looked into the investment opportunity further and discovered 
more information about this type of investment, how high-risk it was and whether Greenfields 
Capital was regulated in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, 
its likely that she would have come across the various regulatory warnings about 
unregulated investment scams that Ive mentioned above. This would have been enough to 
give Ms H second thoughts such that she wouldnt have gone ahead with the third payment 
on 24 November 2017, and subsequent payments. 
I therefore conclude that HSBC ought to have intervened on the third payment to Greenfields 
Capital on 24 November 2017 (sixth overall) and had it done so, Ms H wouldnt have 
incurred further losses. This adds up to £65,001. Ms H also received credits totalling £4,850 
directly from Greenfields Capital. This amount is what she recovered directly from it, so its 
only fair that it is deducted from the loss that HSBC needs to reimburse.
HSBC has questioned the application of 8% interest on the refund and argued that this 
provides a windfall for Ms H. But the 8% interest isnt there to replace interest she might 
have earnt had the money stayed in her account or was invested into cash-based 
investments. It is to compensate Ms H for the loss of use of the money. It has long been our 
approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being deprived of the funds, and I 
remain satisfied that it is fair to apply it in this case.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Ms H is partly to blame for what happened. And I 
think that she is. I say this because Ms Hs account information shows that she has previous 
investment experience. I can see large ad-hoc as well as regular credits from different 
financial businesses. I understand Ms H was looking for something that offered better 
returns than what was being offered on savings or deposit accounts. Here, she says she 
was told about opportunities to earn £3,000 per month. And given literature showing 
potential profits of 500%. But given Ms H had investment experience, she ought to have 
known that substantial profits come with substantial risks. 
Im not aware that she carried out any due diligence before contracting with Greenfields 
Capital. I havent seen any evidence that Ms H carried out any research into the investment, 
the trader, or the investment type to reassure herself that the opportunity as presented was 
genuine. Or that she was dealing with a legitimate trader. So, I do think that Ms H ought to 
bear some responsibility for her losses. I consider that it would be fair to reduce 
compensation by 20%.  
Ive thought about whether a payment for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused Ms H is appropriate. I think that the substantive cause of her distress and 
inconvenience was Greenfields Capital. I acknowledge what Ms H has said about her 
experience with HSBC when she requested a chargeback. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, I dont think there were grounds for a successful chargeback even if the customer 
service provided by HSBC had been better. I also recognise that HSBC has already paid 
£150 for accidentally debiting more funds than what it had credited into Ms Hs account when it offered a temporary refund. In the circumstances, I wont be telling HSBC to pay 
more compensation.   
 
Putting things right
To put matters right, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to reimburse Ms H the last eight payments to 
Greenfields Capital (from £10,000 on 24 November 2017 onwards), less any credits she 
received from it, along with a 20% deduction for contributory negligence. That would mean 
an award of £48,120.80. 
The bank should also add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year (less any tax properly 
deductible), calculated from the date of each reimbursed payment to the date of refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
needs to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman