DRN-3690685
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) handled 
his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), in relation to the 
purchase of a holiday product in August 2018. Hes also unhappy that Barclays allowed 
another related transaction to go through after hed asked for this not to happen.  
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Ds because it was a credit card 
in his sole name that was used for both of the transactions in question. But as the holiday 
product that the claims relate to was in his name and his wifes (Mrs D), Ill refer to both of 
them at times throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D went on a holiday to Mexico where part of the deal was a requirement for 
them to attend a holiday product presentation. Following the presentation, they agreed to 
buy a timeshare based holiday product from the supplier, who Ill call X. The total price 
agreed was $53,900, plus $2,200 administration costs. Mr D paid $5,973 on his credit card 
on the day of purchase, which he understood to be a deposit. Mr and Mrs D were told that 
because theyd agreed to buy the holiday product, they would move to a different hotel for 
the duration of their stay, at no extra cost. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs D were told there was a 35% deposit, which needed to be paid in 
instalments. Mr D signed a finance agreement with a company Ill call Y, where 10 payments 
of $1,704.60 would be taken from Mr Ds credit card. Mr and Mrs D also took out 
separate/additional finance to pay for the balance. 
Shortly after agreeing to the deal, Mr and Mrs D began to have concerns that the deal theyd 
ended up with wasnt exactly as Xs representative had suggested. They tried to discuss this 
with the representative, but werent able to do so before they returned home from their trip. 
Still having concerns, Mr and Mrs D then contacted Barclays for help claiming back the 
$5,973 payment. Mr D says he asked Barclays to not allow any further transactions related 
to the agreement to go through. Barclays asked Mr and Mrs D to provide further information 
so that it could consider the matter further, which Mr and Mrs D did. Barclays then wrote to 
Mr D to say that because the total cost of the agreement was more than £30,000, it didnt 
come under s.75 CCA.
A further payment of £1,344.62 ($1,704.60) to Y was taken from Mr Ds card in September 
2018 and it looks like Barclays told Mr D that there was nothing it could do to stop the 
payment. Mr Ds card number was then changed to avoid any further payments being taken.  
Unhappy with what had happened regarding both transactions, Mr D referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service in November 2018. When referring his complaint, Mr D 
said that the holiday product purchase had been for both him and Mrs D and the payment he 
had made only related to his half of the transaction  meaning the amount was less than the 
£30,000 limit for s.75. 
He also said that he had come to realise that the various amounts towards the purchase 
didnt add up. He said this led him to suspect that the initial payment of $5,973 on his credit 
card was actually unrelated to the purchase of the holiday product and was instead to pay 
for the stay at another hotel and that this meant what theyd been told about that stay being 
free, wasnt true. Mr D also said that Barclays should have suggested he change his card 
number straight away  as this would have prevented the £1,344.62 payment to Y from 
going through.
An investigator here issued an opinion on the case. In summary, he said that when 
considering s.75, the cash price of the goods or services must be more than £100 but not 
more than £30,000. He noted the agreement was in joint names, but said that for the 
purposes of s.75 it is the total cash price that matters. Given the total cash price was more 
than £30,000, s.75 didnt apply and so he couldnt say Barclays had been wrong declining 
the claim.
He also considered whether the Visa Chargeback scheme was relevant but didnt think it 
was, because there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs D didnt get 
what they should under the agreement. 
Regarding the payment of £1,344.62 to Y, he didnt think Barclays was liable to refund the 
amount, because the payment related to a credit agreement that Mr D had with Y. 
Overall, while he understood that Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the product theyd 
purchased, he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. 
Mr D disagreed. Regarding the payment of £1,344.62 to Y, he emphasised that Barclays had 
reassured him that no further payments would be taken. He also highlighted how the various 
figures relating to the purchase didnt add up and that he still thought this meant the initial 
$5,973 payment wasnt related to the purchase  and as such should be considered under 
s.75. 
The investigator didnt change his outcome. He said that the $5,973 payment did appear on 
the point of sale paperwork and what Mr D has suggested was only speculation. Regarding 
the payment of £1,344.62 to Y, he said that based on what Barclays had told us about the 
steps it can take to prevent further payments being taken, it wouldnt necessarily have 
worked, because the second payment had been taken by a different company (Y).
Mr D remained unhappy and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman for further 
review. He provided further information and evidence, much of which was a reiteration of 
what hed already said and provided.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in August 2022. In it, I said:
There are two fundamental issues in this case. First, whether Barclays response to Mr Ds 
original request for help getting his money back was fair and reasonable. Second, the extent 
to which it is responsible for allowing the payment to Y to go through and, associated to this, 
whether it needs to give this money back to Mr D. Was Barclays response to Mr Ds original request for help fair and reasonable?
The key here is whether the original payment towards the holiday club membership is 
covered by s.75 CCA. Mr D says is should be covered on two grounds. First, that it was a 
joint membership and the payment of $5,973 on his credit card only related to his half of the 
membership  bringing it under the £30,000 limit. Second, Mr D believes the payment wasnt 
(as he had been originally led to believe) in fact related to the membership. He says the 
figures dont add up and he now believes it was a payment relating to the change in 
accommodation that occurred after he and Mrs D had agreed to buy the membership.
Barclays says that the total cash price of the membership exceeded the £30,000 limit and so 
s.75 CCA doesnt apply.
In order for s.75 to apply, a number of conditions need to be met. One of these is that the 
total cash price of the transaction needs to be more than £100 but less than £30,000.
Ive first thought about whether the payment of $5,973 is related to the holiday club 
membership because, if it wasnt, the other issue raised by Mr D would fall away. 
But I think it most likely is. I say this for a number of reasons.
First, this is what Mr D originally understood the payment to be. I appreciate he now thinks 
otherwise, but this is only speculation and there is nothing written down to show that the 
payment was for anything else. Second, whilst I agree that all of the figures (this payment 
plus the two financed amounts) dont add up exactly to the total figure, there is not a large 
difference. Third, I can see that the amount of $5,973 was written on the contemporaneous 
document titled Work Sheet and Recap of the Sale. And whilst the overall figures dont 
quite add up, I note that the $5,973 figure is $2,200 (noted as being an administration / 
closing cost) plus 20% of the $18,865 figure (written next to initial investment in the Price 
section of the document). 
As I think the payment of $5,973 was likely related to the holiday club membership, Ive gone 
on to consider Mr Ds argument that the payment of $5,973 only related to his half of it. What 
matters for the purpose of s.75 is the total cash price of the transaction. While I appreciate 
that Mr D considers that his half of the membership was only half of the total amount, this 
doesnt alter the fact that the total cash price was $53,900. That being the case, the total 
cash price of the transaction exceeded the £30,000 limit for s.75 to apply. I think this means 
that Barclays decision to turn down Mr Ds claim under s.75 was reasonable. 
It's not clear that Barclays considered raising a Chargeback under the relevant Visa scheme 
and I would ordinarily expect them to have considered this. However, given everything Ive 
seen on file, I think that if a Chargeback had been raised, it would likely have been defended 
and not resulted in Mr D getting his money back  as there is no evidence that he wasnt 
going to be supplied the timeshare membership under the agreement. So even if Barclays 
should have considered this option more than it did (which I make no firm finding on  as it 
isnt necessary), I dont think this makes a difference.
Is Barclays responsible for allowing the subsequent transaction to Y to go through?
Mr D says that when he first contacted Barclays in August 2018, he received assurances 
that no further payments would go through on his card. He says that after the payment of 
£1,344.62 to Y went through, he was advised to change his card number and that this 
prevented any further payments from going through. Mr D says that if he had been advised 
to change the card number when he first contacted Barclays, he would have done this and 
no payments to Y would have gone through.  Barclays says that it cant locate details of any telephone conversation with Mr D when he 
first raised his concerns in August 2018 and it doesnt think it is responsible for the amount 
being taken. 
I cant be sure of what was discussed between Mr D and Barclays ahead of the payment to 
Y going through. Although Barclays hasnt been able to locate details of a telephone 
conversation with Mr D in August 2018, its possible one took place (or some kind of other 
interaction) and that he was given some assurance that a future payment wouldnt go 
through. Its also possible that it should have suggested to Mr D that he change his card 
number before it did and that this would have prevented the payment to Y going through.
However, I dont need to reach a finding on any of this. Because even if Barclays could have 
done more to prevent the payment to Y from going through, I dont think this would mean 
that Barclays would reasonably need to give Mr D the money back.
I say his because I can see that Mr D signed the relevant finance agreement with Y. As 
such, he authorised the payment and if it hadnt gone through, he would still have owed Y 
the money. On this basis, even if Barclays could have done more to prevent the payment to 
Y from going through, I dont think it would be equitable for Barclays to need to pay this 
amount to Mr D as the money was used to discharge a liability that he had.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 8 September 2022.   
Barclays responded to say it accepted my PD and had nothing further to add. Mr D 
responded to say he was disappointed with the outcome but had no further evidence to 
submit. He did though make a number of points that he wanted me to take into account, 
before reaching a final decision. 
In summary, he said that he is still sure the original payment had nothing to do with the down 
payment for the timeshare, which he was told wouldnt begin being taken until September. 
He is only seeking protection under s.75 for that original payment, not the amount of the 
Timeshare contract. 
In respect of the second payment, he said he has evidenced speaking to Barclays in August 
and that he explained at that time the card would not be used for any transactions other than 
the Timeshare. He was only ever given assurances that no further payments would be taken 
and still considers that Barclays is at fault for allowing the transaction to go through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done all of this, I am still not upholding this complaint. I do appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr D and that he feels strongly about what has happened. But I hope 
my explanation helps him to understand why this is the conclusion Ive reached.Before I explain why, I want to set out again my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address 
every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what 
I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
There remain two fundamental issues in this case. First, whether Barclays response to 
Mr Ds original request for help getting his money back was fair and reasonable. Second, the 
extent to which it is responsible for allowing the payment to Y to go through and, associated 
to this, whether it needs to give this money back to Mr D.
Was Barclays response to Mr Ds original request for help fair and reasonable?
The key here remains whether the original payment of $5,973 is covered by s.75 CCA. As 
set out in my PD (which forms part of this final decision), in order for s.75 to apply, a number 
of conditions need to be met. One of these is that the total cash price of the transaction 
needs to be more than £100 but less than £30,000. The total cash price of the Timeshare 
was $53,9001. So, if the original payment of $5,973 does relate to the Timeshare, then a 
claim relating to that transaction isnt covered by s.75. 
Mr D has re-iterated his view that the payment wasnt in fact related to the membership. He 
says he was told the payments towards the down payment for the membership wouldnt 
begin until the September.
However, I still think its more likely than not that the payment of $5,973 does relate to the 
Timeshare, for the reasons set out in my PD. I still find it compelling that the amount of 
$5,973 was written on the contemporaneous document titled Work Sheet and Recap of the 
Sale. And whilst the overall figures dont quite add up, the $5,973 figure is $2,200 (noted as 
being an administration / closing cost) plus 20% of the $18,865 figure (written next to initial 
investment in the Price section of the document).
I appreciate that Mr D is only seeking reimbursement of the $5,973 figure and not the total 
price of the membership. However, because s.75 doesnt apply, I cant say that Barclays 
decision to decline the s.75 claim was unfair. And as such, it would not be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Barclays to pay this amount to Mr D.
It remains unclear whether Barclays considered raising a Chargeback under the relevant 
Visa scheme and I would still ordinarily expect them to have considered this. However, I still 
think that if a Chargeback had been raised, it would likely have been defended and not 
resulted in Mr D getting his money back  as there is no evidence that he wasnt going to be 
supplied the timeshare membership under the agreement. So even if Barclays should have 
considered this option more than it did (which I make no firm finding on  as it isnt 
necessary), I still dont think this makes a difference.
1 1 On the date Mr D paid $5,973 on his credit card, the exchange rate of USD to GBP was 
approximately 0.787. This means the total cash price of $53,900 was equivalent to approximately 
£42,419.30.Is Barclays responsible for allowing the subsequent transaction to Y to go through?
I still accept that Mr D may well have been given assurance that a future payment wouldnt 
go through. Also, that Barclays could and perhaps should have suggested to Mr D that he 
change his card number before it did. And that this would have prevented the payment to Y 
going through.
However, I still dont need to reach a finding on any of this, for the reasons given in my PD. 
Even if Barclays could have done more to prevent the payment to Y from going through, I 
dont think this means that Barclays reasonably needs to give Mr D the money back.
If the payment hadnt gone through, Mr D would still have owed Y the money. On this basis, 
even if Barclays could have done more to prevent the payment to Y from going through, I still 
dont think it would be equitable for Barclays to need to pay this amount to Mr D as the 
money was used to discharge a liability that he had.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman