DRN-3413106
The complaint
Miss W complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwichs handling of her 
mortgage account. 
What happened
In April 2000, Miss W took out her Mortgage Current Account. Miss W says when she took 
this out, she was told by the agent that the reserve account was linked to the mortgage 
interest rate. Miss W says the account was problem free until she was told that the account 
was being taken over by Barclays in 2015. At this point, Miss W thinks the interest rate 
applied to the Mortgage Current Account changed. Barclays says the interest rate on the 
Mortgage Current Account was 4.49% above the Bank of England base rate.
In 2020, Miss W made a complaint. She said she wasnt sure what interest rate she was due 
to be paying on her Mortgage Current Account and thought she might be overpaying. In 
September 2020, Barclays responded. It wrongly said Miss W had an offset mortgage, but 
that the interest rate should be 4.49% above the Bank of England base rate. It offered £150 
for the conflicting information Miss W had received. 
Miss W didnt receive this letter. She referred her complaint to this service. She said to put 
things right, she needed to know if her Mortgage Current Account has been managed 
properly. Miss W says she hasnt been sent key information by post (her preferred method of 
communication) and wasnt aware of an online account. She wanted to know whether she 
has been charged the correct interest rate since 2015 and wondered if she was due 
compensation for the confusion around the handling of the account.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and said she considered the paperwork setting out 
the mortgage offer had been clear. This set out the interest rate for the mortgage, and what 
would happen when the fixed term ended. 
The investigator also said the Mortgage Current Account and the mortgage were different 
accounts. She thought the issue around the online account had been resolved and the offer 
of £150 for the confusion caused was fair and reasonable. Miss W didnt agree, and said she 
thought the interest rate should reduce when the Market Rate of Interest reduced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, I think its helpful to clarify that Im not expecting either Miss W or 
Barclays to provide copies of the all the paperwork from the point the Mortgage Current 
Account was taken out back as far as 2000. This is because the timeframe extends beyond 
that which Barclays is required to keep copies of the paperwork.
That being said, Ive seen a copy of a mortgage offer from 2006. This sets out that the 
mortgage and the Mortgage Current Account are linked but are both offered at different 
interest rates. It set out that (at the time) the repayment mortgage was offered at a fixed rate 
of 5.69% until 31 January 2012. It went on to say:
A Current Account Reserve facility is available which can be used to draw down 
additional borrowing The interest rate charged on the Current Account Reserve will 
be at our Standard Variable Rate...
Based on this extract of the mortgage offer, Im satisfied it was clear that the repayment 
mortgage and Mortgage Current Account would attract different interest rates. And the 
Mortgage Current Account doesnt track the Market Rate of Interest, it is instead charged the 
interest rate on the Standard Variable Rate. A lender will usually set its own standard 
variable rate, which sometimes comes into effect when a fixed rate comes to an end. There 
isnt a requirement for a lenders standard variable interest rate to track the Market Rate of 
Interest as Miss W suggests. 
Barclays sets its own Standard Variable Rate. And from reviewing the documentation Ive 
been provided with; I havent seen anything to support Miss Ws suggestion her Mortgage 
Current Account has been charged the wrong interest rate. This is because whenever an 
interest rate is referenced in relation the Mortgage Current Account, it is in relation to the 
Standard Variable Rate set by Barclays. It follows, I wont be requiring Barclays to take any 
steps to amend the interest rate applied. 
I dont consider the fact that Barclays has only recently (in the last few years) started 
including the interest rate applied to the Mortgage Current Account on the statements to 
mean it acted incorrectly at an earlier point. Im satisfied this was shared in the offer 
document Ive seen, and Barclays has explained that it started including this on the 
statements after feedback from customers.  
However, Barclays says there has been some points where the communication could have 
been improved. Miss W says she didnt receive key communication, but Barclays says it 
posted all important documents. Im satisfied Barclays did respond to the complaint Miss W 
made in September 2020, albeit I accept Miss didnt receive this. 
But I consider Barclays despatched the letter, as it was required to do. Im satisfied the offer 
of £150 Barclays made in its final response is fair and reasonable. Ill leave it for Miss W to 
decide if she wants to now accept this offer.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman