DRN-2718747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Coventry Building Society declined their application for a re-
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a mortgage with another lender and in March 2020 they applied for a 
re-mortgage with Coventry via a broker. They also wanted to borrow around an extra 
£35,000 to repay some unsecured debts and for home improvements.
As part of the application process, Coventry requested details of Mr and Mrs As business 
and income from their accountant on 3 April 2020. This information was received on 
30 April 2020 and subsequently reviewed by Coventrys underwriter. 
The underwriter decided they needed more information about how Mr and Mrs As business 
had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. At the beginning of May 2020, Coventry 
contacted Mr and Mrs As broker, who explained the business wasnt currently trading with 
work on hold, and that both Mr and Mrs A were currently furloughed. 
Coventry declined the application but said it would review its decision on receipt of evidence 
that the business was trading again, three months bank statements and draft business 
accounts for 2020. 
Mr and Mrs A appealed the decision but their appeal was declined. Mr and Mrs A say they 
understand why that happened, given the significant drop in profits in their 2020 business 
accounts, but they think Coventry should have granted the mortgage sooner. They feel they 
have been unfairly caught up in a change in Coventrys lending criteria part-way through 
their application. 
Mr and Mrs A complained. Coventry said it had dealt with their application fairly and in line 
with its policy. It thought it was right to take account of the impact of Covid-19 and the wider 
economic environment on Mr and Mrs As business. 
Our investigator didnt think Coventry had done anything wrong. He said it hadnt treated Mr 
and Mrs A unfairly or any differently to any other prospective borrower. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They didnt dispute the 
application being declined for the second time on the new business accounts. But they felt 
that if it hadnt been for the delay in their accountant returning the requested information, 
their initial application would have been approved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs A invested time and effort in getting the various paperwork 
together for this mortgage application in difficult circumstances. They chose to apply to 
Coventry because they expected to get the mortgage they wanted, and I can understand 
why. Importantly, though, there was never any guarantee about that. I find the mortgage 
certificate Coventry issued to Mr and Mrs A in March was clear that lending would be subject 
to satisfactory evidence and no change in circumstances.
Circumstances did change. Mr and Mrs A are right to say that Covid-19 was already 
affecting the UK when they initially applied for the mortgage in late March  the country was 
by then in lockdown. But I wouldnt expect mortgage lenders to have been in a position to 
adapt to the change fully in just a few days. I also wouldnt expect them to have ignored the 
impact of the pandemic on a prospective borrowers financial situation when making a 
lending decision. Mr and Mrs A were, unfortunately, affected, and they themselves appear to 
accept that their 2020 accounts didnt support their application.
Lenders have a duty to lend responsibly, and I think Coventry was reasonable in taking into 
consideration Mr and Mrs As changed circumstances when assessing their application. Im 
also satisfied that it dealt with the application quickly, well within its own service standards, 
and it didnt cause any delay. 
Mr and Mrs A want to know whether they would have got the mortgage but for their 
accountants delay in providing information. I cant be certain about that either way. 
However, Coventrys records indicate that it had some questions about the increase in 
profits from Mr and Mrs As business in recent years, and it seems likely to me that it would 
have wanted more information in any event. Coventry would also have had to take into 
account that Mr and Mrs A wanted to borrow more money; they werent just applying to 
replace their existing mortgage with the Coventry one.
Its not uncommon for things to change during the course of a mortgage application, and its 
entirely reasonable for a mortgage lender to take relevant changes into consideration. Im 
satisfied that Coventry dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs As application, in line with its policy and 
the same as it treats other prospective borrowers. The non-refundable costs involved in the 
application were clear, and Coventry gave Mr and Mrs A the opportunity to appeal. In all the 
circumstances, I find no basis on which to uphold this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A have since been unable to re-mortgage with another lender. 
If they havent done so already, they might want to discuss their situation with their existing 
lender to see whether there is anything it can do to help, such as moving their mortgage onto 
a lower interest rate if one is available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman