DRN-3284602
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Vitality Health Limited misled her when she made a claim against her 
private medical insurance plan. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs M has membership of a group, private medical insurance plan 
via her employer. The plan renews in July each year. 
In June 2020, Mr M phoned Vitality and enquired about cover for a talking therapy. I 
understand that Vitality authorised eight sessions of therapy. Mrs M says that Vitality told 
her that only a fraction of the £250 excess due under the plan would apply to her 
treatment. She says that Vitality told her that a new excess would be applied after 
renewal but again, she was told that only a fraction of it would apply. 
Mrs M says that, based on what Vitality told her, she decided to proceed with private 
treatment. Vitality subsequently asked Mrs M to pay £500, which was two excess 
amounts of £250. Mrs M complained to Vitality about that. 
In response to Mrs Ms complaint, Vitality said that it had listened to the relevant phone 
call. It apologised for confusion about how the excess would apply to the billing which led 
Mrs M to believe that she wouldnt pay the excess in full. Vitality paid Mrs M 
compensation of £100. Mrs M didnt think that was enough. 
Mrs M says that Vitality treated her unfairly and that it misled her. She wants Vitality to 
charge her only a fraction of the excesses due under the plan, in accordance with the 
information it gave her and to compensate her for her time and stress.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that a fair resolution here 
was for Vitality to reimburse one excess of £250 and pay Mrs M compensation of £50 in 
relation to her distress and inconvenience. The investigator subsequently said that 
Vitality could deduct the compensation of £100 it had already paid Mrs M. 
Vitality accepted what the investigator said but Mrs M didnt. She said that she didnt 
think shed have to pay a £250 excess because of what Vitality had told her. Mrs M said 
that if shed known the true position, she would have chosen NHS treatment. She said 
that Vitality didnt treat her fairly and that she was vulnerable and worried at the time. 
Mrs M thought that a fraction of the excess would be, say, £125. Vitality wasnt 
prepared to proceed on that basis. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant plan terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:  
EXCESS - PER PLAN YEAR
Please refer to your certificate of insurance to see if this excess applies to you.
The first amount which must be paid by you before we make any payment for treatment 
covered by this plan. (Only one excess is payable in each plan year for each insured 
member and insured dependant. This excess resets at the beginning of each new plan 
year.
has Vitality treated Mrs M unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. I dont think it did that here and Ill explain why:
Its not in dispute that Mrs Ms plan provides for an excess of £250 per person per 
plan year. Vitality correctly told Mrs M that if the treatment continues over the renewal 
date of the plan, a further excess will be applied. The central issue here is what 
Vitality told Mrs M about how much of the excesses due under the plan shed be 
asked to pay.
Where things are not clear, and evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of 
it is here  I make my findings on what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into 
account the evidence available to me and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Mrs M says that she was told that shed have to pay only a fraction of the excesses 
due under the plan. Unfortunately, the recording of the relevant phone call is no 
longer available. So, in considering this matter, Ive taken into account Mrs Ms 
recollection of what was said, Vitalitys notes made at the time of the call and its  
comments about the content of the phone call after it had listened to it in response to 
Mrs Ms complaint. 
Vitality accepts that it wasnt clear when Mrs M asked for information about making a 
claim. In notes made by Vitality after it had listened to the recording of the phone call, 
it said that the person who dealt with Mrs Ms enquiry gave an example and said that 
if a session was £100, Mrs M wouldnt be expected to pay the £250 excess due 
under the plan, it would be a fraction of that, and if she had two sessions up to 
renewal shed pay a fraction of that. Thats not in fact the case, as Mrs M would pay 
for the sessions up to the excess amount. I can see why Mrs M was confused. Also, 
Vitality acknowledges that it could have told Mrs M that if her sessions were all 
before or all after renewal, shed only have to pay one excess. 
When mistakes like this happen, we dont necessarily direct the business to act as if 
the incorrect information were true. We look to see the effect of the error on the 
individual. Here, Mrs M says that, based on what Vitality told her, she decided to 
proceed with private treatment, rather than pursue treatment from the NHS. But I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Vitality to waive all but a fraction 
of the excesses. Thats because the excesses were correctly due under the plan and 
Mrs M had the benefit of private treatment, rather than waiting for treatment in the 
NHS.I think that if Vitality had correctly told Mrs M about planning her treatment  before or 
after the renewal date so as to incur only one excess, its likely that Mrs M would 
have delayed initiating treatment slightly. Considering everything, I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome here is for Vitality to waive one of the excesses due under the 
plan. 
Mrs M was no doubt disappointed and distressed to discover the true position. I think 
that Vitality should also pay Ms M compensation of £50 in relation to that. In reaching 
that view Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Vitalitys errors here. In calculating compensation, Vitality 
can take into account the compensation of £100 it has already paid to Mrs M.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Vitality should now:
reimburse one excess of £250
pay Mrs M compensation of £50 in relation to her distress and inconvenience
deduct from the total payment above the £100 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Vitality Health Limited should take the 
steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman