DRN-4018077
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HBC) provided poor telephone customer service.
What happened
Mr D attempted to contact HSBC and he says that he is unhappy with the call waiting times.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld.
Mr D did not agree with this and therefore his complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision. I note that Mr D is also concerned about a letter being posted to him by HSBC but 
my understanding is that this is being dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my understanding that Mr D thinks its unacceptable that individuals have to wait for long 
periods of time to use telephone banking. The Financial Ombudsman Service largely wont 
interfere with an organisations business practices, including how it has set up its call centre 
telephone system and staffing availability at call centres. It is the role of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, to monitor how a business conducts this type of activity. So, I 
am not able to ask HSBC to change the way it runs its call centres.
Whilst I understand that it can be inconvenient waiting in a queue for a call to be answered 
this does not mean that compensation is merited. In many cases, even though there has 
been a certain amount of inconvenience or distress, it will not be appropriate for this service 
to tell a bank to pay compensation. We wont decide the bank should pay if the degree of 
inconvenience appears to be slight. All of us suffer some inconvenience in our day-to-day 
lives and in our dealings with commercial organisations.
In this instance whilst I am satisfied that it would be inconvenient to have to wait to have a 
call answered I do not think the level of inconvenience is sufficiently enough to merit 
compensation. I should also add that when Mr D wants to contact HSBC there are other 
options available to him, such as using online banking or attending a branch. But the reality 
is Mr D has chosen to use a method that will invariably involve some waiting times. This 
cant be completely avoided.
Overall I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman