DRN-1987244
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about delays in receiving money into an account he holds with Santander 
UK Plc.
What happened
On three occasions Mr D transferred money from Australia to an account he has here in the 
U.K. with Santander. Each time there were delays in releasing the money to Mr D's account.
Mr D was unhappy with the first delay so complained. Santander apologised for any 
inconvenience saying the delay was due to their legal and regulatory obligations. They were 
unable to give a timeframe for the checks nora specific scenario about the reasons for the 
checks. Santander were also unable to guarantee that further checks wouldn't be done 
again in the future.
Remaining unhappy with the explanation from Santander Mr D brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into what happened. He acknowledged the 
delays were frustrating, but overall thought Santander acted reasonably. Mr D disagreed so 
the complaint has come to me a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were three payments into Mr D's account earlier this year.
The first was received on Friday 24 April and released Tuesday 28 April.
The second was received on Friday 22 May and released Wednesday 27 May.
The third was received on Monday 25 May and released on Wednesday 27 May
Taking into account weekends, public holidays and unforeseen problems for Santander 
caused by the coronavirus situation, the time frames for these checks seem reasonable, and 
certainly not excessive.
Santander said the delays were due to checks under their legal and 
regulatory responsibilities; and I agree they have these 
responsibilities. This sometimes means checks on transactions, and inevitably some delays 
in consumers having access to their funds. But Santander does all it can to make these 
delays as short as possible.
Santander also said they couldn't give particular scenarios when checks might take place, 
nor give a time frame for how long they might take. Santander is free to set its own security 
policies including how it decides what transactions to check, and also what checks they conduct. This is a commercially sensitive security policy that I wouldn't expect Santander to 
disclose.
All of this doesn't mean Mr D wasn't affected by what happened; it's clear to me that he was. 
Mr D contacted Santander several times to find out what was happening, and he was 
frustrated by the answers, or lack of answers, that he was getting. This was especially so as 
the money was to help a family member.
However these type of checks are a normal part of the banking process. Whilst frustrating for 
Mr D, I'm happy Santander was conducting business as it should and not causing the delays 
unnecessarily.
Having looked at everything that happened I'm satisfied that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably when conducting checks on the transfers.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman