DRN-3491982
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as LiveLend, approved her for a 
loan which she feels wasnt affordable for her at that time.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss D applied to Chetwood for a £3,000 personal loan to be repaid over 24 
months. Her application was approved, and the loan capital amount was provided to Miss D 
by Chetwood.
In March 2021, Miss D raised a complaint with Chetwood because she felt she hadnt been 
able to afford the loan shed been approved for in June 2019, and that this should have been 
apparent to Chetwood had they undertaken checks into her financial position before 
approving the loan.
Chetwood looked at Miss Ds complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into 
Miss Ds financial position before approving her loan application, and they felt that thered 
been nothing resulting from these checks that should have given them cause to suspect that 
Miss D might not be able to repay the loan she was applying for. So, they didnt uphold Miss 
Ds complaint.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with Chetwoods response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the information that 
Chetwood assessed before approving the loan should have given them cause to suspect 
that Miss D might not be able to afford the loan at that time, and that if Chetwood had 
conducted further checks into Miss Ds financial position that these checks would have 
confirmed that Miss D couldnt afford the loan such that it shouldnt have been approved.
Chetwood didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
 
Chetwood believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the loan application 
they took information from Miss D about her employment status and annual income, as well 
as obtained information from a credit reference agency to get a better understanding of Miss 
Ds wider financial position. And Chetwood maintain that there was nothing resulting from 
that information that they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that 
Miss D might not be able to afford the loan she was subsequently approved for.
At first glance, Chetwoods position here appears understandable. Miss D had declared her 
net income as being approximately £2,050 per month, and this had been verified by 
Chetwood via a credit reference agency. While similar checks had suggested that Miss D 
had disposable income available to her (after essential spending and other existing credit 
commitments) of around £700 month. 
Additionally, the information Chetwood obtained from a credit reference agency didnt seem 
to include any that Miss D was using short-term payday loans at that time (although it 
confirmed that she had used such loans previously) and appeared to suggest that Miss D 
was maintaining her existing credit commitments, which didnt appear unduly excessive in 
relation to her annual income, without incident.
However, a more considered assessment of the information Chetwood assessed at the point 
of the loan application leads to a different view of Miss Ds financial position at that time. 
For instance, its notable that in the months leading up to the Chetwood loan application that 
Miss D had taken another loan for a greater amount than the one for which she was now 
applying. And its also notable that Miss D held an existing credit account that was being 
maintained very close to the credit limit that was available to her on that account. 
Finally, while Chetwood have stated that the information they received from the credit 
reference agency included that Miss D didnt have any active payday loans at that time, the 
information that they did assess includes a loan taken a few months before the Chetwood 
application which had a balance of £100 and monthly repayments of £14. 
This is clearly a payday loan, regardless of whether its described as such by the credit 
reference agency that Chetwood obtained the information from. And as such it begs the 
question as to why a person with as seemingly a high amount of monthly disposable income 
as Chetwood assessed Miss D as having would have an existing payday loan, a recently 
taken personal loan, and be maintaining an existing credit account close to the credit limit, 
and then be applying to Chetwood for yet more credit.
At the very least, I feel that the information available to Chetwood as outlined above should 
have given them cause to suspect that Miss Ds financial position might not be as healthy as 
first appeared, such that further, more detailed checks into Miss Ds financial position should 
have been carried out before approving Miss Ds loan application.
And had Chetwood conducted these further checks, which I feel in all likelihood should have 
included asking Miss D for copies of her current account statements for the months leading 
up to the loan application, Im satisfied that it would have become available to Chetwood that 
Miss Ds financial position was considerably more strained than it first appeared, such that 
the provision of further credit to Miss D at that time wouldnt have been in her best interests.
I say this because its evident from Miss Ds current account statements that, while she only 
had one payday loan open at the time of her application to Chetwood, her recent financial 
history showed that she was borrowing regularly from payday lenders and that she was often 
borrowing from one lender in order to repay borrowing from a different lender. Additionally, 
Miss Ds current account statements showed that she was having to use an unauthorised 
overdraft on her current account and was being charged for it, and also that in the month 
immediately before the application to Chetwood her financial position had deteriorated to the 
point where several of her direct debits had been returned unpaid.Im satisfied that this is a clear illustration of someone who was struggling financially at that 
time, and of a person who was already struggling to manage their existing credit 
commitments whereby she was effectively stuck in a cycle of debt such that the provision of 
further credit to her at that time was irresponsible.
And while I appreciate that Chetwood may say that the information that they assessed about 
Miss D appeared to show that her financial position was reasonable when she applied for 
the loan, such an assessment can only be considered valid on a first glance basis  which 
Chetwood, like all providers of credit, had an obligation to look beyond.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint in 
Miss Ds favour.
 
Putting things right
Chetwood must reimburse to Miss Ds account all fees, charges, and interest incurred or 
accrued on the account from inception.
Following these reimbursements, if a credit balance remains in Miss Ds favour, Chetwood 
must pay this balance to Miss D along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of 
repayment.
If, following the above instructed reimbursements, a balance remains outstanding on the 
account for Miss D to pay, Chetwood must contact Miss D to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan with her, ensuring that no interest is applied to that balance while its being repaid.
Finally, Chetwood must remove all adverse credit reporting relating to this account from the 
inception of this account from Miss Ds credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Chetwood Financial Limited, trading 
as LiveLend, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman