DRN-3564865
The complaint
Mr B complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, unfairly blocked his account and failed to 
return his funds causing him substantive distress and inconvenience. 
To keep matters simple, Ill refer to Pockit in my decision. 
What happened
Pockit placed Mr Bs account under review in late May 2021 and placed a restriction on it. It 
then asked Mr B to provide documents, which included identification, proof of address and 
source of funds for the money held in his account.
Mr B provided Pockit with his identification and proof of address. He also sent in some 
information about his entitlement to the funds. Unhappy with Pockits actions, Mr B 
complained.
Pockit said it was acting in line with the terms of the account when it decided to review and 
restrict Mr Bs account. It sympathised with Mr Bs circumstances but said it had done 
nothing wrong.
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service.
Following its review, Pockit decided to close Mr Bs account and told him it was returning the 
funds to the account they had come from. The funds were sent to Mr B by his partner, who I 
will refer to as Miss S. Mr B told Pockit Miss S had not received these funds.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. In short, they said Mr B had provided 
Miss S statements which showed the funds had not been returned, and that Pockit had not 
responded to several requests for information in relation to this matter. They concluded 
Pockit should return the funds with 8% interest from June 2021 till settlement and pay £150 
for the trouble and upset its delays had caused. 
In early March 2022, Pockit said it had traced the payment and it hadnt been sent to Miss S 
as it had previously thought due to an internal error. Pockit then sent the money to Miss S 
account and Mr B confirmed it had been received.
Pockit agreed to pay Mr B £150 compensation but argued it shouldnt have to pay 8% on the 
returned funds as they belonged to Miss S. So Mr B had no entitlement to interest on funds 
which were not his own. 
My provisional decision
As Pockit did not agree, Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent both parties my 
provisional decision saying that I was planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. For ease 
of reference, this is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
UK financial businesses like Pockit are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Pockits reasons, Im satisfied it acted fairly when deciding to review  and 
restrict  Mr Bs account. It was also entitled to ask him for the information it did. Pockits 
terms say:
We reserve the right to request information or proof of income at any time regarding 
the source of the funds used to pay into your Pockit Account. We may also suspend 
your Pockit Account and use of your Pockit Card, pending the satisfactory resolution 
of our queries
The terms and conditions of the account, Pockit and Mr B had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving them at least 60 days notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Its unclear from both Mr Bs and Pockits submissions what information was provided to 
show his entitlement to the funds. Because of that I cant make a finding as to whether 
Pockit acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the account, by closing 
Mr Bs account by giving less than sixty days notice.
Having said that, the crux of Mr Bs complaint is that funds were not returned to Miss S when 
Pockit said it had  and by being deprived of these funds, hes suffered severe distress and 
inconvenience.
Pockit has said the funds werent returned in July 2021 due to an error on its part. It rectified 
this in March 2022 - nearly nine months after it said it had sent the money originally. Mr B 
has explained consistently, and in detail, the impact of what it meant to him and his family 
not having these funds. 
In summary, hes told us that he couldnt pay his rent as the money was from Government 
benefits predominantly earmarked for this purpose. Hes also said that the residual amount 
was part of his other benefits to pay for other living costs  like food. Mr B also has a 
dependant, and he says this has severely impacted his and his partners mental health.
Im satisfied that further benefit payments made to Miss S would have allowed Mr B to meet 
most of his living costs, but there is no doubt that for a period of time he was severely 
impacted. Mr B explains hes only recently been able to pay people back hes had to borrow 
money from because of what Pockit did.
Overall, Im satisfied Pockits error has caused Mr B considerable distress, inconvenience, 
and disruption. So, because of that, I am planning to direct Pockit to award him £500.
In reaching this amount, Ive also considered that Pockit failed to engage with Mr B in a 
meaningful way, and look into the issue, when he was telling them about not receiving the 
funds through significant chat interaction attempts online.Lastly, Ive also seen documentation from Mr B which Im satisfied shows he was entitled to 
the funds and they were Government benefits. Im also satisfied they were paid to Miss S 
due to previous issues with Pockit receiving such funds.
So given Im satisfied of Mr Bs entitlement to the funds, and why they were directed to 
Miss S, I think 8% simple interest should be paid on them
To put things right, I recommended Pockit should pay Mr B £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused, and that it should pay 8% simple interest on the amount it was 
withholding from June 2022 up until settlement. 
I gave both Pockit and Mr B a deadline to respond to my provisional decision. That deadline 
has now passed. Pockit has not responded. Mr B says he accepts what I said. It follows I 
must now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part for the reasons above. 
To put things right, Pockit should pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. And, it should pay 8% simple interest on the amount it was withholding from 
June 2022 up until settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct PayrNet Limited to 
put things right as above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman