DRN-2233331
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his income protection insurance with 
Vitality Health Limited trading as VitalityHealth.
What happened
Mr Ms insurance policy with Vitality started in 1992. It initially cost £48 for the year for an 
annual benefit of £9,600. By 2018 the policy cost £1,704 for an annual benefit of £44,472. 
In 2018, Mr M complained that the increase in price over the years was unfair, as the price 
had increased much quicker than the benefit.
Vitality replied to say that the price had increased in line with both the increasing benefit and 
Mr Ms age, as well as a reappraisal of the risks presented by the policy which took place in 
2008. Vitality also pointed out that Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) was introduced since the 
policy started and had increased to 12% by the time Mr M complained.
Vitality has also told us that due to the age of the policy, and that the company has changed 
on at least three occasions, there is limited information about the early years of the policy. 
So, it has only been able to provide price information as far back as 1999.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2020, explaining why I wasnt planning to 
uphold this complaint. That gave Mr M and Vitality until 17 September 2020 to provide any 
further information or comments they wanted me to take into account when making this final 
decision. Neither Mr M nor Vitality have provided anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither Mr M nor Vitality provided any further information or comments for me to 
consider, my decision and the reasons for it are the same as in my provisional decision. Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Vitality has treated Mr M fairly 
throughout the period he held its insurance policy.
If I find that Vitality hasnt treated Mr M fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair. But, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed with this, and will likely disagree with my decision, and Ill explain my reasons.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly  
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost.
In this case Vitality has shown us how the price increased and why, back to 1999, which is 
the earliest date for which it has information available. As agreed at the start of the policy, 
the annual benefit increased 5% at each annual renewal. In most years, the price of the 
policy increased by 5% as well. That is understandable, and I dont think that Mr M has any 
issue with that. The only exceptions to this were:
2005  41% increase  Mr M had moved into the next age band having reached 40 
years old.
2008  31% increase  Vitality had reassessed the risk associated with the policy and 
decided that the existing pricing structure was no longer sustainable. The increase 
reflected its updated view of the risk and what it needed to charge.
2010  47% increase  Mr M had moved into the next age band having turned 45.
2011  4% increase  less than the benefit increased.
2013  7% decrease  an adjustment to ensure there was no longer a difference 
between what a male and female customer would pay.
2015  6% increase  slightly more than the benefit increased.
2016  59% increase  Mr M had moved into the next age band having reached 50 
years old, although it appears this increase was applied a year late, but thats to the 
benefit of Mr M.
In my opinion, none of these increases appear to be unfair or unreasonable. I know that 
Mr M thinks the increases are too high. But it is not for me to tell an insurer how to price risk. 
And Im satisfied that the increases applied to the policy reflect Vitalitys assessment of the 
risk of providing it, including the cost of overheads, administration, expected future claims 
and profit.
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably be expected to cover the 
likely claims arising from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term 
viability of the insurer and provide some profit. The calculation is generally based on the 
probability of the insured event occurring, combined with the likely financial loss resulting 
from the claim. All insurers take a number of different factors into account when doing this 
calculation.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk, based on the volume and 
cost of claims their customers have made. So, if the cost of paying claims increases 
significantly, an insurer will revisit the way they calculate the premium to make sure they can 
continue to cover claims in the future.
As Vitality have explained, they did just this in 2008. And as a result, some changes were 
made to the way the policy was underwritten and the premium calculated  theres nothing 
wrong with Vitality doing this. An insurer is unlikely to continue to provide any cover if they 
know theyre going to make a loss. They could find themselves in a position where theres no 
money to pay the claims. So, its fair for an insurer to take steps to avoid this happening, much like Vitality did in 2008. Unfortunately for Mr M, this meant he saw his premium 
increase significantly at that time.
Overall, I dont think Vitality acted unfairly when setting the price of Mr Ms policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman