DRN-3353701
The complaint
Mr S complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr S new-build home is covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. In year three, he 
made a claim for roof defects. The defects were allowing birds to enter between the roof 
coverings and the underlay membrane. 
Mr S says the defects present a water ingress issue, and hes noted theres staining on the 
underlay membrane from bird excrement. The bird noises are also keeping him awake at 
night.
Because the issue was identified during years three to ten of the cover, sections 3 and 4 of 
the policy apply.
Section 3 covers physical damage if it has been caused by the builders failure to meet the 
NHBC requirements when building certain parts of the home (including the roof). NHBC 
observed such defects with the roof coverings. However, it didnt find evidence of bird 
entry or water ingress in the loft space.
NHBC pointed to the following section 3 exclusion and declined the claim: Damage to the 
roof covering (including any underlays, fixings, mortar and weatherproofing details) unless 
the damage results in water getting into your home.
Section 4 provides cover if theres an immediate danger to physical health or safety because 
the builder failed to comply with certain building regulations. However, NHBC didnt consider 
a bird infestation to be an immediate danger.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint, but she didnt think the claim had been 
unfairly declined. Mr S remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having watched a video provided by Mr S, I can understand his upset given the noise of the 
birds, and his concern given the excrement staining. However, his claim is subject to the 
policy terms and exclusions.
Section 3 covers physical damage if it has been caused by the builders failure to meet the 
NHBC requirements. However, section 3 excludes damage to roof coverings, including 
underlays, unless that damage results in water ingress. 
Having reviewed the reports, photos and video provided, the only physical damage Ive seen 
is the poor installation of the roof coverings, and the underlay membrane staining from bird 
excrement. I havent seen any evidence of water ingress.
Mr S has provided an email from a builder which states: rain is penetrating in. However, the 
builders email doesnt explain how or where rainwater is entering. I accept birds have found 
entry points, but in my view, it doesnt necessarily follow that rainwater is able to enter at 
those points. I also consider it likely that, if rainwater had been entering, there would be 
signs of water damage after three years. Therefore, overall, Im not persuaded by the 
builders comments.
So, because the only physical damage Ive seen is damage that isnt covered by the policy, 
Im satisfied NHBC fairly declined the roof defects under section 3. 
In respect of section 4, whilst I accept the birds and their excrement may present a health 
risk in the long-term, no evidence has been provided which shows theres an immediate 
danger to the health of the occupants. So, Im not persuaded that the roof defects were 
unfairly declined under section 4.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman