DRN-2342612
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a payment she made to 
purchase a boiler. She brings her complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (S75)
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs B purchased a boiler from a store abroad using her Nationwide credit 
card. She says her and her husband had purchased the boiler for their property in the same 
country, which they were renovating.
Mrs B says that when she visited the store she spent around an hour with the salesperson 
explaining what it was they needed. In summary, she says she told the salesperson they 
required a boiler which would heat the radiators and the hot water to their bathroom, in other 
words, a combination boiler. She says the salesperson was very thorough and took details of 
their property and the various room sizes. She says they eventually selected a boiler which 
the salesperson said would suit their requirements.
Mrs B says they had trouble finding a suitable person to install the boiler in their property due 
to a lack of qualified tradespeople in their local area. They say they were also let down by 
one installer after being on their waiting list for several months. Mrs B eventually hired a 
tradesperson from the UK to come over to their property to install the boiler. This took place 
in September 2019.
Mrs B says the boiler was installed but it didnt supply hot water to the bathroom taps. She 
says her tradesperson initially thought the boiler was faulty but then discovered that they had 
been supplied with a system boiler, not a combination boiler. This meant the boiler wasnt 
able to heat water. Mrs B says she complained to the store, but they refused to exchange it 
for a combination boiler. She therefore approached Nationwide for a refund under S75.
Nationwide initially considered whether it could attempt to retrieve a refund through a 
chargeback via the relevant card scheme rules. However, the chargeback process has 
strict time limits which had already been exceeded by the time Mrs B contacted Nationwide.
It therefore considered her S75 claim but didnt uphold it. It said this was because so much 
time had passed since the sale there was nothing to indicate that the boiler didnt conform to 
the contract. It said the receipt showed Mrs B received the correct boiler. Further, it said the 
stores terms and conditions stated how long Mrs B had to return the boiler and she was now 
outside of that time frame.
I sent Mrs B and Nationwide my provisional decision on 21 October 2020. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
The general effect of S75 is that if Mrs B has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the store she bought the boiler from, she can bring a like claim 
against her credit provider (Nationwide). There are certain requirements that need to be met 
in order for Mrs B to be able make a S75 claim. For completeness, Im satisfied those 
requirements are met here.
Ive thought carefully about how Nationwide handled Mrs Bs S75 claim and complaint. 
I acknowledge that it isnt clear cut exactly what happened during the sales process and the 
information printed on Mrs Bs receipt about what she received is different to what she says 
she was told shed receive. However, taking everything into consideration, I think, on 
balance, there has been a breach of contract and it would be fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mrs B has been consistent throughout in her recollections of the sales process and what she 
required the boiler to do. Overall, Im persuaded but what she says. This is because it 
appears to be supported by other relevant circumstances and evidence. 
Mrs B says her property didnt have an existing boiler in place. Shes been clear and 
consistent about what she needed from a new boiler and how this would fit into the plumbing 
that was already in place at her property. I think its more likely than not she would have 
been equally clear about this during the sales process. The comments from Mrs Bs 
tradesperson appear to support this too. This is because he says he was instructed to install 
a combination boiler by Mrs B. I dont think Mrs B would have said this only to the 
tradesperson and not mentioned that before purchasing the boiler in the store. In addition, 
the tradesperson said:
The pipe work connections resembled all that is proper to a 'combi' boiler, most 
particularly the cold water input and domestic hot water outlet. The boiler was 
installed and the pipe connection made in accordance with the [manufacturers] 
instructions which were for a 'combi' boiler.
From what Ive seen the manufacturer produced a system boiler and a combination boiler 
which were identical in appearance and size. Further, the model numbers were almost 
identical, except for the addition of two additional numbers at the end of the model number 
for the combination boiler. I can therefore understand how it might be easy for the store to 
have accidently selected the wrong type of boiler, either during the sales process or when 
collecting it from their warehouse as Mrs B has suggested may have happened. Mrs Bs 
tradesperson also commented on these similarities as it wasnt until he took the boiler apart 
did he discover it was in fact a system boiler. He said:
After investigation, the moulded plastic casing which should have contained the 
plate heat exchanger was found to be a blank. Hence the water input and outlet pipe 
connections to this were also blank. Thus the boiler was found to be a heat only 
boiler and not the 'combi' boiler.
I accept the receipt Mrs B has shows she purchased a system boiler and not the 
combination boiler. However, I dont think its reasonable for Mrs B to have realised that 
given the boilers looked identical, came with the same pipework and had almost identical 
model numbers. I also dont think this is a case of Mrs B selecting the wrong boiler, rather 
I believe its more likely (given the reasons Ive set out earlier) that the store incorrectly 
processed the wrong product through the till and/or from their stock room.
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, its more likely than not Mrs B did make it 
clear to the store what boiler she required and the store provided her with the incorrect 
model. As the boiler she was supplied with wasnt fit for its intended purpose I think there 
has been a breach of contract. I think its fair and reasonable that Nationwide needs to now 
put things right.Nationwide has said that Mrs B was outside of the stores returns policy and that she took an 
unreasonable amount of time to raise any issue with the boiler. I dont think the returns policy 
is relevant here because Im satisfied there was a breach of contract for which I think Mrs B 
is entitled to a remedy for. While I realise considerable time has passed since the purchase, 
I dont think this prevents Mrs B from raising a claim for breach of contract in this case. 
Despite the time thats elapsed, Im satisfied theres sufficient evidence to say the boiler she 
was supplied with wasnt the one she agreed to purchase.
Mrs B hasnt used the system boiler as it wasnt compatible with the rest of the plumbing in 
her property. She therefore hasnt had any benefit from the system boiler she was originally 
provided with. To remedy the breach of contract I think Mrs B ought to have the boiler she 
intended to purchase. However, she has already purchased and installed the correct boiler 
from the same store. I therefore think it would be fair for Nationwide to give Mrs B a full 
refund of the purchase price of the system boiler. Nationwide should also arrange collection 
of the system boiler at no cost to Mrs B. As Mrs B pays off her credit card in full each month, 
she has been prevented from using the money she spent on the system boiler elsewhere. 
For that reason, Nationwide should also add 8% simple interest per year onto the refund 
from the date she paid off the purchase on her credit card to the date of settlement.
Both Mrs B and Nationwide accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments 
to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to come to a 
different conclusion. 
Putting things right
To put things right Nationwide should:
Refund to Mrs B what she paid for the system boiler, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date she paid off the purchase on her credit card to the date of 
settlement. Nationwide should arrange to collect the boiler from Mrs B at no cost to 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman