DRN-2760233
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled her home 
insurance claim. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
For clarity, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents. Likewise, any reference 
to Mrs D includes comments from her representatives.
Mrs D has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva. The policy provides 
unlimited cover in respect of contents. In November 2019, Mrs Ds home and contents were 
severely damaged following a fire. Mrs D and her husband subsequently moved into 
alternative accommodation. 
Initially, Aviva agreed the buildings and contents claims could proceed, and asked Mrs D to 
itemise the damaged contents so it could assess the claim.
On receipt of Mrs Ds contents list  which totalled over £240,000.00  Aviva paused both 
the building and contents claims. It was concerned that Mrs Ds contents claim, specifically 
in respect of the clothing being claimed for, far exceeded what it considered to be a 
reasonable sum in Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances. 
Mrs D said items from her wardrobe totalled approximately £100,000, and Mr Ds £30,000 - 
and is due to the couple having acquired and purchased designer goods over a 20-year 
period. Aviva said without evidence showing proof of purchase, or a disposable income 
which enabled them to make high end purchases, it wasnt convinced the claim was a true 
representation of the loss incurred. 
Throughout the complaint Mrs D has maintained the items from the couples wardrobe are 
genuine designer goods, and that as her and Mr D operate cash rich businesses, they paid 
cash when making their purchases.  
When a restoration contractor visited Mrs Ds property, it raised concerns about the 
authenticity of some of the clothing items. Aviva subsequently arranged for an expert in 
authenticating designer goods, to review a sample of items. Their report concluded:
42% of the samples are 100% authentic.
26% are undetermined  perhaps due to missing labels or poor-quality craftsmanship 
which could indicate counterfeit or alternatively made for outlet.
32% showed signs of being counterfeit.
Aviva says the experts findings supports its position there isnt enough evidence to show   
Mr and Mrs Ds clothing collection was of the value claimed for. Mrs D disputes the experts 
credentials and findings. As well as this, shes unhappy about:
the time its taken Aviva to progress matters which in turn has meant the house has 
been left exposed to the elements.
Aviva only agreeing to alternative accommodation on a monthly basis, when it initially 
agreed to a six-month period.
having to hire a loss assessor to manage her claim  she wants Aviva to compensate 
her the costs of doing so. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She wasnt satisfied there was enough evidence 
to show Mrs Ds claim had been made fraudulently. But she thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably by asking for further information from Mrs D to validate the claim. 
She was satisfied Aviva had taken reasonable steps by appointing a second expert to 
authenticate the sample clothing items. Based on the experts findings, the investigator said 
Aviva needed to settle 42% of the contents claim for clothing.  
She added that Aviva needed to arrange alternative accommodation on a longer-term basis. 
While she recognised the claim was stressful, she didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva to 
cover the costs Mrs D incurred in hiring her own loss assessor as this wasnt required of her. 
And she didnt think Aviva had caused avoidable delays.
Aviva accepted the investigators opinion but offered to pay 55% of the full clothing contents 
claim to account for the authenticity of some items being undetermined. 
 
Mrs D provided a lengthy response detailing why she disagreed with the investigators 
opinion. Ive summarised her main objections below:
The clothes are genuine. Shes not prepared to negotiate with Aviva and expects full 
replacement costs.
Its not reasonable or proportionate for Aviva to insist that receipts, bank statements 
or tax returns are provided in order to validate the claim.
Aviva sampled 30 items, not 2000 and their assumptions and investigations are 
flawed. 
The two contractors appointed to inspect the items werent sufficiently qualified.
The investigators view only referred to one experts report when there were two and 
both should be viewed equally. 
One contractor failed to retrieve receipts from dust covers and boxes and severely 
prejudiced her position to prove the items authenticity. 
Aviva chose not to secure the property and so the contents have been exposed to 
the elements  meaning Mrs D lost the opportunity to recover documentation.
Our investigator provided further responses addressing Mrs Ds concerns and explained why 
she considered Avivas offer to settle 55% of the full clothing claim to be fair. Because Mrs D 
remained unhappy, the complaint has come to for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree its reasonable for Aviva to settle 55% of the contents claim in 
respect of Mr and Mrs Ds clothing, and Ill explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs D thinks its unfair of Aviva to ask her to substantiate 
her claim when theres unlimited content cover. 
The general rule is that consumers are expected to assist insurers with the claims process  
and this is made clear in Avivas policy document: 
Claims conditions
For loss, damage or breakage claims, you must do the following:
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we recommended you keep 
copies of receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee 
cards, to help with your claim. We do not normally pay for any expense you may 
incur in providing this information.
So, Im satisfied Aviva is acting in accordance with the policy in asking Mrs D to evidence 
that her and Mr Ds designer clothing collection is entirely genuine, and therefore of the 
value claimed.
In the absence of receipts, Aviva has asked Mrs D to provide bank statements and tax 
returns. It says this would show whether Mr and Mrs D had a disposable income which 
enabled them to make high end purchases, and whether large cash withdrawals occurred  
as this is how Mrs D said purchases were made. 
So, I need to decide whether this request was reasonable in the circumstances. Aviva has 
said that given the size of Mrs Ds property a three-bed semi-detached of average size  it 
questions whether the volume of clothing claimed for could reasonably fit inside it. 
Aviva has also said that Mr and Mrs Ds professions do not ordinarily attract an income 
which would enable purchases to the value Mrs D is claiming for to be made. I balance this 
with what Mrs D has told us  namely that their outgoings are minimal, they dont have 
dependents, and that the clothing collection had been acquired over 20 years. 
Given a large proportion of the contents claim is for the clothing, I consider it reasonable that 
Aviva would require further evidence from Mrs D to substantiate it.  While its not uncommon 
for people to not keep receipts of purchases, there would ordinarily be other evidence to 
support the existence of such items, their authenticity and means of purchase. 
Mrs D has provided evidence of two receipts which she said were found in the garden. The 
appearance of which is consistent with having been damaged due to fire and/or smoke. So, 
Im satisfied the receipts are from Mrs Ds property. But I must keep in mind that these are 
only two receipts in a clothing claim totalling approximately £130,000. And so, Im not 
satisfied the receipts can be considered as substantiating the authenticity of the entire 
clothing claim. 
Aviva has asked Mrs D for information which I would expect her to be able to easily provide. 
While Mrs D may consider this request to be unreasonable, Aviva must be provided with 
information to allow it to fairly consider the claim whilst also protecting its own interests. This 
isnt unique to Mrs Ds claim  the policy document explains that Aviva has the right to 
cancel a policy where:you fail to co-operate with us or provide us with information or documentation we 
reasonable require, and this affects our ability to process a claim or defend our 
interest 
As Im satisfied Avivas request for more evidence was reasonable, I need to decide whether 
its proposed settlement - to cover 55% of the full clothing claim  is fair. 
In the absence of material evidence, Aviva appointed experts to determine the authenticity of 
some items. The first  a restoration company  raised concerns as to the authenticity 
because there was evidence of labels not matching the items (e.g. a cap purporting to be a 
designer brand had a supermarket tag inside) and labels missing altogether.   
Mrs D disputed the findings and asked for an independent expert to inspect the items. So, 
Aviva appointed a second expert who concluded 42% of the goods were authentic. But 
Mrs D raised concerns about their qualifications and method for authenticating goods. Given 
the expert is the founder of a successful pre-owned designer goods market place, Im 
satisfied they have the relevant experience and credentials to provide credible findings. 
Aviva obliged Mrs Ds request in appointing an independent expert, and so I dont think it 
needed to make any further investigations in respect of this. And I havent seen evidence to 
persuade me the experts or the restoration company findings, should be discounted. 
On balance, given the lack of evidence to substantiate Mrs Ds claim, the extent of the sum 
being claimed for which is her responsibility to evidence, and the experts findings that only 
42% of the sample goods were authentic, Im satisfied Avivas offer to cover 55% of the 
clothing claimed for to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Should Mrs D 
discover new information which substantiates her claim, she should put this to Aviva for 
consideration.  
Delays 
I appreciate Mrs D has been dealing with this claim and the aftermath of the fire for almost 
18 months, and it has put immense pressure on her mental wellbeing. Mrs D has said its 
been a tremendously difficult time for her and Mr D and understandably they want the 
repairs to their property completed and the claim drawn to a close. 
Insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and from what Ive seen Aviva has. When 
Mrs D submitted her itemised contents claim, it was far higher than Aviva expected, and so it 
paused both the buildings and contents claims while it investigated things further.
While I appreciate Mrs D feels Avivas decision to do so was unreasonable and caused 
avoidable delays, Im satisfied that in the circumstance  where it had to consider whether 
the claim had been exaggerated  this was a reasonable course of action. It wouldnt have 
been prudent of Aviva to continue with the buildings claim and to make repairs before it was 
satisfied the claim wasnt exaggerated. 
I also consider that Mrs Ds reluctance to provide evidence (which I believe could have been 
provided with relative ease) has contributed to the duration of the claim.
Loss assessor fees
While I understand Mrs D felt compelled to hire her own loss assessor to manage the claim, 
this wasnt something she was required to do, and so I wont be directing Aviva to pay the 
costs shes incurred in doing so.Alternative accommodation 
Mrs D is unhappy that alternative accommodation is currently only being agreed on a 
monthly basis and that this is adding to her stress. In the circumstances, I think its 
reasonable to ask Aviva to agree longer term accommodation. I appreciate Aviva changed to 
reviewing it on a monthly basis when it had concerns as to the legitimacy of the claim  but 
as the claim is being treated as genuine, I think it would give Mrs D peace of mind to know 
where her and Mr D will be residing in the longer term until their property is habitable. The 
starting point for the duration would be the anticipated duration of repairs based on the 
schedule for works.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
- pay 55% of the full clothing contents claim. If Mrs D provides evidence to 
substantiate that a greater proportion of the full clothing contents are genuine, Aviva 
should consider this when assessing the claim. 
- duration of alternative accommodation to be determined by the anticipated duration 
of repairs from the schedule of works. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman