DRN-4205606
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that AWP P&C SA hasnt assessed their travel insurance claim they 
made in 2022. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had a travel insurance policy. The policy was insured by AWP.
Mr and Mrs O cancelled their holiday as Mrs O required an emergency caesarean. They 
made a claim to AWP on 8 November 2022 with supporting documents including a medical 
report which cost Mr and Mrs O £50 to obtain.
Mr and Mrs O didnt hear back from AWP about their claim assessment. They complained to 
AWP about the delay. AWP responded to them on 30 March 2023 apologising for the delay 
and saying the claim was being reviewed as a matter of urgency. It offered Mr and Mrs O 
£70 compensation for their distress and inconvenience caused by the delays, which they 
rejected as AWP had still not assessed the claim.
Mr and Mrs O complained to us. They detailed Mr Os attempts to contact AWP by email and 
phone calls, which included when he waited on hold for over one and a half hours and was 
then disconnected. They want AWP to pay their claim.
Our investigator recommended AWP should review the claim without further delay and pay 
Mr and Mrs O £150 in compensation, in addition to the £70 compensation it had already 
offered, for their distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs O accepted our investigators recommendation. AWP didnt respond so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly.
Mr and Mrs O made their claim at the start of November 2022. At the time of me making my 
decision, nine months later, they still havent heard from AWP with the outcome of its claim 
assessment which is a wholly unreasonable delay. And I think AWP unfairly raised Mr and 
Mrs Os expectations by saying in March 2023 that it was reviewing the claim urgently and 
not contacting them since then. 
Im satisfised that AWP hasnt handled Mr and Mrs Os claim promptly or fairly and it should 
pay Mr and Mrs O compensation for their distress and inconvenience its unfair service has 
caused. I think the amount our investigator recommended is reasonable to acknowledge 
AWPs delays to date and it unfairly raising Mr and Mrs Os expectation.
Also, AWP need to assess the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and tell 
Mr and Mrs O the outcome of its claim assessment. If Mr and Mrs O disagree about the 
claim outcome they can complain to AWP and ultimately make a separate complaint to us, 
as thats a separate matter.
AWP must put things right as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Mr and Mrs O £150 compensation in addition to the £70 compensation it had 
already offered, so £220 compensation in total, for their distress and inconvenience its unfair 
service has caused.
Also, AWP must now assess the claim and contact Mr and Mrs O with the outcome of its 
claim assessment without further delay. 
 My final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to:
pay Mr and Mrs O £150 compensation in addition to the £70 compensation it had 
already offered, so £220 compensation in total, for their distress and inconvenience  
due to its unfair service, and
assess the claim and contact Mr and Mrs O with the outcome of its claim assessment 
without further delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman