DRN-3038863
The complaint
Mr H has complained that BISL Limited didnt tell him until 2021 that he still owed a 
balance for a motor insurance policy cancelled in 2016.
Reference to BISL includes its agent. 
What happened
In 2015 BISL arranged a motor insurance policy for Mr H. It also arranged for him to pay for 
that policy by monthly instalments to a credit provider. Mr H missed some payments and in 
September 2016 BISL wrote to him to say that he needed to arrange payment or it would 
cancel his policy. Mr H didn't arrange payment and in October 2016 BISL cancelled the 
policy. It told him he would still need to make payment for his time on cover together with the 
cancellation fees that were due. 
Later the same month, October 2016, BISL arranged for Mr H to pay the outstanding 
balance by direct debit. But Mr H later cancelled that direct debit and didn't make further 
payment. BISL continued to pursue Mr H for payment until February 2017. In August 2018 
BISL told Mr H it had reviewed his account. It said it had previously charged him six failed 
payment fees at £25 a time within a 12 month period. It said that as a responsible lender it 
had a duty to ensure that it wasn't charging fees unfairly. So it reduced the number of failed 
payment charges by three. It offered Mr H a refund.
Mr H didn't contact BISL again and, in 2021, it sold the debt to a debt collector. The debt 
collector contacted Mr H. It said he owed around £214. Mr H complained to BISL. He said it 
hadn't ever told him he owed it anything.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
BISL needed to take any further action. Mr H didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr H says that BISL didn't ever tell him that he still owed it money from the cancelled policy. 
But I find that unlikely. Owing to the passage of time, some of the evidence, for example web 
chats and phone call recordings are no longer available. But BISL has been able to provide 
us with computer entries and copies of documents which support its version of events.
I've seen evidence that BISL told Mr H the policy would be cancelled because he'd failed to 
make payments. So, as his payments had failed, he should have known it was likely that he 
still owed the finance provider for the policy premium. I've also seen evidence that BISL told 
him that it would charge him both for his time on cover and any applicable cancellation 
charges. So it certainly let Mr H know at the time it cancelled his policy that he could be 
expected to pay BISL further funds. It also has evidence that it agreed for Mr H to make 
repayments by direct debit. But Mr H cancelled that direct debit agreement before it took 
payment. Further, there's evidence from BISLs computer system that Mr H accessed his 
online account several times between October 2016 and February 2017. So I think it's more 
likely than not that - at that time - Mr H knew he still owed funds to BISL.
There was then a lack of action until 2018 when BISL reviewed the account. At that time 
BISL said that it decided it would be fair to remove some of the failed cancellation charges it 
had applied. It said it contacted Mr H and gave him the option of either reducing his 
outstanding balance by the amount of those charges (£75), plus interest of £11, or of taking 
a refund. BISL said Mr H said he wanted the refund, which it paid to him. 
Mr Hs account is different. He said that BISL simply contacted him to offer a refund and 
didn't mention that he still owed anything. Clearly I wasn't there at the time so can't be 
certain exactly what happened. But it seems likely that the reasons BISL was reviewing the 
account was because the funds remained outstanding. And it brought that amount down by 
refunding some charges. So its then contacted Mr H to ask him how he wanted to accept 
that refund. I find it very unlikely that it wouldn't have at least discussed offsetting the funds 
against the outstanding balance. It follows that I'm not persuaded by Mr Hs account that he 
was unaware of the debt until after BISL sold it to a debt collector. And as Mr H still owed 
that money I think it was reasonable for it to take that action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman