DRN-4262062
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC has closed his account and with the requirements it 
has for his funds to be released to him.
What happened
Mr Z had a bank account with Barclays. Barclays reviewed its accounts following the UKs 
departure from the European Economic Area (EEA) and found that as a ring-fenced 
bank, its UK products are designed for customers within the UK. As Mr Z resided outside the 
UK, his account was affected by these changes. Barclays informed Mr Z of the impact this 
would have on him in letters dated 10 February 2022, 11 May 2022 and 10 August 2022. 
The initial letter dated 10 February 2022 explained that as Mr Z didnt have a UK address his 
account would need to be cleared and closed down by 27 August 2022. The letters of 11 
May 2022 and 10 August 2022 reiterated these points and explained that on or around 4 
September 2022 Mr Zs account would be closed. 
Mr Zs account closed, and he contacted Barclays to query this. Barclays explained the 
account closure and set out the reclaim process that Mr Z would need to follow for the funds 
to be released to him. Barclays received Mr Zs reclaim form on 4 January 2023 and he was 
informed that he would need to provide certified identification documents. Mr Z provided the 
form again in early February, but as his ID and address had not been certified it couldnt be 
accepted. 
Mr Z raised a formal complaint with Barclays in late March 2023 as he was unhappy with his 
account closure, and Barclays requirements for the funds to be released. Mr Z explained he 
had provided all he could to meet the reclaim requirements. Barclays reviewed Mr Zs 
complaint and in its final response letter of 31 March 2023 it set out why Mr Zs account had 
to be closed down and reiterated that the funds would be released once it received the 
necessary certified documents. 
Mr Z remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Mr Z explained that the 
service provided by Barclays was poor and he was assured the funds would be given to him 
by December 2022. To put things right Mr Z asked that Barclays transfer his funds to a 
nominated account and pay interest on the amount. An Investigator reviewed the complaint 
and found that Barclays had acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr Z remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
I realise the closure of his account will be inconvenient for Mr Z, especially as he isnt 
resident in the UK. I also appreciate the requirements Barclays has set out for Mr Z to 
reclaim the funds from his account require additional steps. However, based on all the 
available evidence Im satisfied Barclays hasnt acted unfairly. Ill explain why.
Barclays has explained that following the UK leaving the EU it reviewed the services it 
offered to customers within the EEA. As it was a policy decision by Barclays to limit certain 
services provided to customers living in the EEA and Mr Z was affected by this, I cannot say 
Barclays did anything wrong or treated him unfairly by notifying him of the account closure. 
I must also highlight that Barclays can close an account at any time as long as it gives the 
appropriate notice as laid out in its terms. Barclays terms and conditions say it will give 60 
days notice, and it first wrote to Mr Z in February 2022. Barclays told Mr Z it would be 
closing the account in early September 2022. So, Im satisfied Barclays gave the right 
amount of notice.
Mr Z says he didnt receive the letters issued by Barclays. Ive seen copies of the letters 
issued and they are correctly addressed. Mr Z says there are postal issues where he lives. 
Im satisfied these closure letters were sent, and I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for 
any postal issues. I think Mr Z was given appropriate notice of the closure of 
his account and Im satisfied Mr Z wouldve also had access to these letters online.
Reclaim process
Ive also considered whether Barclays has treated Mr Z fairly following its decision to close 
his account. I would expect Barclays to provide clear, timely information about the next steps 
available to Mr Z given its policy decision.  
I understand Mr Z says he didnt receive them, but the letters issued to Mr Z clearly set out 
the account closure decision and the steps Mr Z should take before the closure if he wanted 
the funds within the account.
Once Mr Zs account closed in early September 2022, Mr Z spoke to Barclays on the phone, 
and he was informed that he would need to follow the reclaim request process to access the 
funds which were in his account. Mr Z says he was advised during a call that the funds 
would be released to him in December 2022. Barclays has provided call recordings and 
having listened to these calls Mr Z is advised of why his accounts have been closed and the 
reclaim requirements. However, I cant agree that he was advised the funds would be 
released to him in December 2022 without the necessary reclaim process being followed. 
Barclays wrote to Mr Z explaining the reclaim process on 4 January 2023. The letter states: 
The above documents must be certified copies by a member of Barclays staff or 
independently certified by a Notary Public (qualified solicitor, any type of certified 
accountant) or an Embassy, Consular or High Commission Official. Mr Z says he cannot 
meet these requirements and they are illegal.
While I appreciate obtaining the necessary certification requires additional steps and may 
prove to be a more difficult process than Mr Z had expected, I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for this. It is not unusual for there to be a reclaim process once an account has 
closed, and Barclays certification requirement isnt unusual either. The certification ensures 
Barclays is releasing funds to the correct individual and will form part of its risk policy and 
regulatory obligations. I am also satisfied the process has been clearly laid out, and there 
are multiple certification options for Mr Z to use.I understand Mr Z feels his long-standing relationship with Barclays hasnt been taken into 
consideration, and he is disappointed with Barclays and its requirements. As noted above, 
Barclays made this policy decision due to changes in the relationship between the UK and 
EEA, so its individual relationship with customers would not be a factor I would reasonably 
expect it to consider.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr Z was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I think 
Barclays has acted reasonably. If Mr Z wishes to continue with the reclaim process with 
Barclays, he is free to contact it directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman