DRN-1535760
 
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that he is liable for some of the cost of his treatment after Vitality Health Ltd 
said it would only pay a proportion of his claim.
What happened
Mr Z has a personal healthcare plan with Vitality, which covered treatment at hospitals listed 
under the Countrywide hospital list. 
In August 2019 Mr Z called Vitality to pre-authorise an appointment with a particular 
consultant at a particular hospital the following day. Vitality authorised the appointment and 
summarised the cover he was eligible for. 
At the appointment, Mr Zs consultant referred him for further diagnostic tests at other 
centres. One of the tests was carried out on 8 August 2019 by a centre that was a subsidiary 
of a clinic on Vitalitys London care hospital list, but not its countrywide list (the diagnostic 
centre). As such, Vitality let Mr Z know hed be liable for 40% of the treatment costs from 
that facility, totalling just over £2,000.
Mr Z was unhappy with this and complained to us. He said the facility wasnt a hospital; it 
was a clinic. He also said it wasnt reasonable for him to check whether this was covered as 
hed been referred there by his consultant following an authorised appointment
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr Z disagreed and raised further points in 
reply. His complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know 
Mr Z wont be happy, but hopefully hell understand the reasons for my decision when I 
explain why.
The terms of Mr Zs policy say hes only eligible for cover if treatment is carried out by one of 
the hospitals on his chosen list, and that:
some consultants can arrange for diagnostic tests and scans to be carried out in a number 
of different hospitals. It is important that you check that the hospital your consultant suggests 
you attend is eligible on your plan...
Vitality has provided the recording of the call that took place between its representative and 
Mr Z when he sought pre-authorisation for his initial appointment with the consultant. 
Vitalitys representative says Mr Z should let it know if hes referred to a different hospital. Mr 
Z is also advised that he could be liable for 40% of the costs if hes referred on elsewhere 
and the treating hospital isnt on the countrywide list.The diagnostic centre wasnt on the countrywide list and Vitality hadnt pre-authorised the 
tests to take place there. So, in the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think Vitality 
has done anything wrong by only paying 60% of the costs of the tests which took place at 
the diagnostic centre, leaving Mr Z to pay 40%. 
Vitality had been clear in explaining that if the consultant referred Mr Z for tests elsewhere, 
he should check whether he was covered. There were several days between the initial 
appointment and the onward referral and Mr Z didnt contact Vitality again to check whether 
the diagnostic centre was covered under the policy he had. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all the points Mr Z has raised including:
the diagnostic centre wasnt a hospital, so he didnt know he needed to check 
whether it was covered. However, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for him to 
assume that the policy terms, or the advice he was given by Vitality over the phone 
when first seeking pre-authorisation, didnt apply when being referred on to the 
diagnostic centre by the consultant for particular tests. Although Vitality has used the 
term hospital throughout its communications, Im satisfied this is a general term its 
used to describe a treatment facility, not just a facility that specifically has the word 
hospital in its name. I dont think thats unreasonable particularly given that there are 
a number of treatment facilities on the hospital list which are described as clinics.
 
that he had other tests which were carried in between the date of his consultants 
appointment and the tests carried out at the diagnostics centre. These took place at a 
different centre which wasnt listed on the countrywide list either and, although Mr Z 
hadnt called to specifically pre-authorise the tests taking place at that centre, Vitality 
agreed to pay the costs of those tests in full. Vitality has explained it did so as it 
covers that particular centre on a discretionary basis, and it isnt listed on its hospital 
list. Whereas, the diagnostic centre is a subsidiary of a facility which is listed on its 
London care list. If a policyholder wants to be treated at any of the facilities on that 
list, they pay a higher premium and the costs charged by those particular facilities are 
higher compared to the expected cost for tests at facilities not on the London care 
list.
 
what he says about the Consumer Rights Act 2015; in particular sections 62 and 68. 
But for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied Vitality has fairly applied the 
terms of the policy here by asking Mr Z to make a co-payment of 40% for the 
treatment which took place at the diagnostic centre. That sort of term isnt uncommon 
in these types of policies. And I think the term was clearly set out to Mr Z in this case. 
Mr Z also says diagnostic tests shouldnt be classed as treatment, however 
treatment is defined in the policy and includes diagnostic tests. So, I think Vitality has 
fairly applied that definition to the circumstances of Mr Zs case. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman