DRN-2628594
The complaint
Miss I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund €273,000 she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
What Miss I says
Miss I had funds from an inheritance in a euro account with HSBC. She looked online for a 
low risk investment and found company B. Miss I received a call from company B and was 
told she could invest in fixed rate UK treasury bonds. 
Before deciding to invest Miss I viewed a brochure from company B and looked it up on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website to confirm it was registered. She found out some 
more details about the bond  such as the rate of return of 8% and that it matured in 2021. 
Miss I provided company B with identification and was sent a payment instruction to a US 
bank account not in company Bs name. Miss I thought company B was a well-known 
international firm.
In May 2020 Miss I made a payment of €273,000 (plus a €12 fee) during a phone call to 
HSBC. Ive set out relevant parts of the call in which payment was made below,
HSBC: Because this is the first time youre paying this particular payee Id just like to 
complete a quick scam check to make sure youre not a victim of any kind of scam or fraud 
when making this particular payment.
So Im just going to ask a few questions about the payment youre looking to make today. 
Unfortunately we see fraudulent transactions taking place where criminals pretend to be 
from organisations or people that you trust including your bank, the police or well-known 
companies as well as friends and family. So in terms of whats prompted you to make this 
payment, so youve purchased bonds with this company in the US. Is that correct?
Miss I: Can you repeat the question for me?
HSBC: So in terms of whats prompted you to make this payment and the reason for the 
payment, youve mentioned that the reason was that youve purchased bonds with this 
company in the US. Is that correct?
Miss I: Yes, with [company B]
HSBC: And you were expecting to make this payment?
Miss I: Err,was I expect?
HSBC: Were you expecting to make this payment today so its not sort of an unexpected 
payment thats randomly like popped up is it?
Miss I: No I actually you know I discussed it like, basically the bond and then I decided its a 
good one because, as I say, I wasnt lookingI couldnt find anything basically matching, 
well you also show me the percent is lower [HSBC fixed rate bonds discussed earlier in the 
call with returns of 0.45, 0.55 and 0.7% for one, two and three years respectively] so I kind of 
wanted to go with it.
HSBC: No problem. So were you called unexpectedly and asked to set up a new payee?
Miss I: No
HSBC: Or to move money to a safe, secure or holding account?
Miss I: Err, sorry, say that again
HSBC: So were you called unexpectedly and asked to set up a new payee or move money 
to a safe, secure or holding account?
Miss I: No
HSBC: And have you been asked to alter any details from the original payee instructions?
Miss I: Any details?
HSBC: So have you been asked to change any details from the original instruction?
Miss I: Oh no, I mean, yeah, no the original instruction I exchanged email on the phone with 
the person
HSBC: So following our discussion around the payment and its origins its important to know 
that it might not be possible to get your money back if it is inadvertently sent to a fraudster so 
are you comfortable that this payment is to a genuine source and that the payment details 
are correct or would you like to contact the payee on a number you know to be genuine to 
verify the payment details?
Miss I: No, I already did yeah
HSBC: OK, so have you already phoned them to check the payment details are correct or 
did you just receive an email?
Miss I: I received it by email but then we discussed on the phone, basically 
HSBC: OK, perfect, and youre happy to proceed with the payment today.
Miss I agreed to make the payment. Following this, the adviser took details of the payee 
including the name (which wasnt the same as company B), its address, the name of the 
bank and the routing code for the payee bank. He explained that hed put in the routing code 
and needed to pre-select the bank but the city Miss I gave him didnt show. Miss I called 
company B to check this and offered a different city, that also didnt appear on HSBCs 
system. Miss I went on to say that the payee told her just to choose anywhere as it didnt 
matter. Finally, the adviser asked for a reference for the payment. Miss I said she didnt have 
one but just to put services. 
After shed made the payment the adviser Miss I dealt with at company B told her that due to 
global expansion company B would be changing its web address and email domain. Miss I 
couldnt log in to the portal after this or contact the adviser using the new details. She found 
a phone number for company B online and obtained the advisers number. But when she 
called this number the person who answered knew nothing about Miss I or her investment 
and referred her to the FCA. Miss I then contacted the FCA and found out shed been the 
victim of a scam. Company B was a clone of a genuine company and the adviser Miss I 
communicated with used the name of an employee at the genuine company. Miss I then 
contacted HSBC to report the scam.
Miss I believes HSBC should refund her lost funds as it didnt do enough to protect her. 
Shes also unhappy with the service provided by HSBC once she reported the scam.
What HSBC says
HSBC says the payment was authorised by Miss I and that in the call when the payment was 
made its adviser clarified and confirmed the payment and provided a warning about scams. It also says it contacted the bank the funds were sent to abroad but has no control over 
whether this bank will respond or return any funds. HSBC accepted the service it provided 
when the scam was reported wasnt as good as it could have been and credited Miss Is 
account with £200. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator upheld the complaint and asked HSBC to refund €273,000, plus interest 
and £200 compensation. She said the payment was unusual in amount and given Miss Is 
previous account history. The investigator noted that the questions HSBC asked were 
generic, covering various scam types. But HSBC didnt ask specific questions about the 
payment Miss I was making so it could point out red flags and provide relevant warnings. 
The investigator also said that HSBC failed to pick up on a number of red flags in the 
payment call, such as the fact Miss I was sending money to the US for UK government 
bonds, was paying a different company to company B and the payment reference. The 
reference given was simply services and the investigator questioned how a large company 
could allocate Miss Is funds correctly without further information.  
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators findings but agreed to refund 50% of Miss Is loss 
together with interest at the rate that applied to the account the funds were transferred from. 
HSBC did so because it accepted it could have asked Miss I more questions about the 
payment. In summary HSBC said,
- The starting point is that HSBC doesnt believe it was legally required to question 
Miss Is payment instructions. HSBC referred to a legal case.
- HSBC spoke to Miss I about the payment in a call. She gave a legitimate reason for 
the payment (an investment) which didnt cause HSBC any concern. The fact the 
payment amount was high doesnt mean it was suspicious. 
- It accepts that it could have asked more questions but the investigators conclusion 
that if it had the payment wouldnt have been made is based on speculation about 
how Miss I wouldve acted, and hindsight based on what is known now about the 
cloned company. There was no FCA clone warning at the time of payment and 
HSBC should not routinely scare its customers that genuine companies may be 
cloned when there is no reason to do so.
- Miss I would have gone ahead and made the payment in any event. HSBC reached 
this conclusion based on the fact that after the payment had been made Miss I 
accepted implausible explanations from the fraudster.
- Miss I should be held partially responsible for the loss because she failed to take 
reasonable steps to protect herself and acted negligently. In particular,
oMiss I should have realised the rate of return offered was unrealistic. In the 
payment call HSBC discussed its own savings bond products that all offered 
rates of return of less than 0.7% and Miss I was being offered 8%.
oMiss I communicated with the scammer and viewed documentation so was in 
a far more informed position than HSBC. These documents likely contained 
red flags that should have been picked up on. 
oMiss I didnt complete sufficient or appropriate checks. She used the details 
provided by the scammer to check FCA registration and didnt contact the 
genuine staff member before making the payment. Miss I accepted that she 
didnt research company B because she knew it was a legitimate company, 
which isnt a sufficient reason not to do further research and Miss I should 
have checked the genuine address of the platform provided to her by 
company B. HSBC said Miss I didnt need to have knowledge of cloned 
companies as she was able to work out company B was cloned without any knowledge when the fraudsters website was inaccessible. 
- The interest rate applied by the investigator was punitive. 
I contacted HSBC and said I agreed with the investigators findings, largely for the same 
reasons. HSBC didnt agree so Im setting out my findings formally in this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with
Miss I when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment request Miss I made was unusual or uncharacteristic. HSBC has 
provided screenshots which show the activity on Miss Is account. Having reviewed these, I 
consider Miss Is payment was unusual. I say this because it was for a large amount 
(€273,000), was to a new payee, was the first international payment on the account and was much greater than any previous transaction. There were only three other payments from the 
account and the highest was for €25,000. 
So Im not saying HSBC should have treated the payment with suspicion simply because of 
its value  there are a combination of factors here  but the value is high enough to place a 
greater burden on HSBC to check Miss I wasnt at risk of financial harm. And I dont consider 
that because Miss I was able to provide a plausible reason for the payment HSBC didnt 
need to ask probing questions. The payment reason for many scams sounds legitimate.
HSBC spoke to Miss I when the payment was made, so Ive gone on to consider what was 
discussed in this call. The adviser asked Miss I various questions designed to check she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm, but I dont consider he went far enough in the circumstances 
of this case. The adviser established that Miss I received payment details by email and had 
spoken to company B on the phone. But he didnt go on to ask where Miss I got the 
telephone number from to ensure she hadnt in fact spoken to a fraudster. The adviser also 
knew that Miss I was buying bonds, but he didnt ask her anything about the checks she had 
completed in respect of company B and the bonds. He also didnt warn her of the existence 
of cloned investment companies and the steps Miss I should take to keep her funds safe 
given the number of cloned companies offering investments. I note HSBC accepts it should 
have asked Miss I further questions in this call.
- Miss I was making a payment in US Dollars to the US for UK treasury bonds.
- Miss Is payment wasnt to company B.
- The reference for the payment to company B was simply services. I cant see how a 
large company would know the source of the funds with no additional information 
about Miss I.
- There was a discrepancy in the payee bank address (HSBC couldnt find the address 
using the routing code). It seems to me that its unlikely the genuine company that 
was cloned would get this wrong. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by HSBC would have made a difference in this case. 
Having done so, its my belief that had HSBC asked proportionate questions and given 
Miss I a warning about investment scams and in particular cloned companies she would 
have taken additional steps before making the payment  and ultimately wouldnt have 
made it. HSBC has commented that the investigators views on what would have 
happened if it had asked more detailed questions and provided a specific warning are 
based on speculation and hindsight. But given that HSBC didnt ask these questions this 
service must look at whats most likely to have happened if it had. 
Miss I wasnt alert to the potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones 
and provide a fake platform. HSBC was the expert here and Miss I an inexperienced investor 
and I feel HSBC should have done more to ensure Miss I wasnt at risk of being defrauded. I 
see no reason why Miss I wouldnt have taken HSBCs warnings seriously if shed been 
cautioned to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding. If shed 
been made aware that investment companies could be cloned, I believe Miss I would have 
used the contact details on the FCA register to get in touch with the genuine investment 
company, at which point the scam would have been uncovered. Ive seen no indication that 
Miss I was so anxious to proceed that she would have ignored warnings or been unprepared 
to postpone the payment to reflect on the matter and make these further enquiries.
Ive thought about HSBCs submission that it shouldnt routinely scare its customers by 
saying genuine companies may be cloned. Im not suggesting that HSBC should scare 
customers, but that proportionate questions should be asked, and clone warnings given when an investment payment is being made that is unusual or suspicious. As Ive said 
above, many customers wont be aware of the potential for fake companies to appear as 
genuine companies or of the steps they need to take to protect themselves, but HSBC is 
aware of this risk. 
HSBC has referenced a legal case in its submission to me. Notwithstanding what the judge 
said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. My fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant rules, 
codes of practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, both to 
HSBC and published on our website.
Ive also thought about whether Miss I did enough to protect herself before making the 
payment. Ive commented above on the fact that Miss I checked the FCA website to ensure 
that company B was registered. Without any knowledge of cloned companies, I dont 
consider it reasonable to expect Miss I to know that to minimise the risk of falling victim to a 
scam she needed to go further. Im not persuaded that many customers would be aware of 
the need to contact a company they plan to invest with using the contact details shown on 
the FCA register. But HSBC did know of the importance of this. 
And without knowing of the risk of cloned investment companies I also dont think Miss I 
would have had any reason to find contact details for the genuine adviser at the genuine 
company and speak to him before making the payment. She took these steps when the 
fraudster stopped communicating with her and she no longer had access to the platform. As 
Miss I didnt recognise and wasnt made aware of a risk prior to this I can understand why 
she didnt take this step before the payment was made.
I turn now to HSBCs comments about the rate of return on the bond and the fact Miss I went 
ahead with the payment when she should have realised the rate was too good to be true. 
Miss I was an inexperienced investor who wished to invest inheritance funds shed received. 
She was told by the fraudster that fixed rate treasury bonds were a safe way to invest these 
funds. In her call with HSBC Miss I said shed looked at other bonds and the one with 
company B had the best rate, so she wanted to go ahead. She considered that the bonds 
she was investing in were a different type of bond to the fixed rate bonds HSBC offered with 
much lower rates of return. The HSBC adviser didnt suggest Miss I might be wrong to 
differentiate the bonds and returns in this way or question whether the deal may be too good 
to be true. If a member of HSBCs high value payments team didnt recognise this risk, I 
dont consider it would be fair to conclude that Miss I fell below the standard expected of a 
reasonable person when making the payment.  
HSBC has also referred to the fact Miss I didnt research company B because she
knew it was a well-known company and said this isnt sufficient reason for failing to carry
out checks. The genuine company Miss I thought she was dealing with is a very well-known 
and respected company so in the absence of any warning about cloned investment 
companies I think its understandable Miss I didnt know she could do more to protect 
herself.
Finally, Ive seen the documents company B provided to Miss I and cant see that they 
contained warning signs that it may not be a genuine company. 
Recovery of fundsIn light of my conclusions above, its not necessary in this case to consider whether HSBC 
also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover Miss Is funds from the payee 
bank. But for completeness, Im satisfied that HSBC did what it could to try to recover the 
money. After Miss I contacted HSBC with concerns about the payment, HSBC contacted the 
receiving bank promptly but unfortunately the payment could not be recovered.
Service
HSBC accepts the service it provided to Miss I wasnt as good as it could have been and 
credited her account with £200. It noted that when Miss I reported the scam there was 
confusion over which area of the bank should deal with Miss Is concern and later she was 
told her complaint had been closed when this wasnt the case. Having considered the 
service provided by HSBC Im satisfied the award already made is reasonable. 
Trouble and upset 
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC should pay Miss I compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of its actions. In considering whats fair 
compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather than the 
impact of the crime itself and Ive also taken into account that much of the distress and 
inconvenience Miss I has experienced was ultimately the result of the actions of a cruel 
scammer.
Overall, I think HSBCs failure to act has had an impact on Miss I. She was clearly distressed 
by the scam. And I think the strain this placed her under couldve been prevented if HSBC 
had acted as I think it ought to have. So for these reasons I think HSBC should pay Miss I 
£200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Interest
I have considered HSBCs comments about the rate of interest awarded by the investigator 
but consider 8% is the appropriate rate. HSBC say 8% is a punitive rate and that Miss I 
would not have achieved this rate if the funds remained in the account or if she invested 
elsewhere. Its clear Miss I wanted to invest her funds to maximise them so its likely that had 
Miss I not made the scam payment shed have found an alternative means of investing 
through a legitimate company. She has lost the opportunity to invest and earn a greater level 
of interest than shed have earned if the shed left the funds in the account she transferred 
them from. Its not possible to say what rate of interest Miss I would have achieved so I think 
that applying the current statutory rate is appropriate. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I direct HSBC UK Bank PLC to:
- Refund Miss I €273,000 less any sum returned from the receiving bank;
- Refund the €12 fee Miss I was charged when she made the payment;
- Add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Miss I with an appropriate tax deduction certificate;
- Pay Miss I £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman