DRN-4194927
The complaint
In summary, Mr L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc provided him with incorrect 
information about how his loan repayments had to be made. He believes this has caused 
him a financial loss. 
What happened
On 5 October 2022, Mr L took out a loan with Sainsburys. He spoke to one of its loan 
advisors on 6 October 2022, when he tried to set up a four weekly standing order. He said 
he was told he couldnt do that and needed to pay by direct debit (DD). He says this meant 
he had to cancel the loan and take one out with another provider at a higher rate of interest. 
Mr L complained to Sainsburys about being advised he couldnt set up a four-week standing 
order. It responded on 15 October 2022. It explained that a direct debit was its preferred 
method of payment but wasnt mandatory. It explained the potential problems with a four-
week payment, taking into account that the loan was built on a calendar month schedule.
Mr Ls concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They wrote to Mr L 
summarising his complaint. In response Mr L said he did read the loan terms and conditions 
that said other payment methods were accepted. 
The investigator looked into Mr Ls concerns and explained why they werent upholding his 
complaint, as they didnt think Sainsburys had breached the terms of the loan agreement.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators assessment of his complaint. In summary, he said the 
investigator had misunderstood what he was complaining about. He said he had originally 
agreed to pay by standing order, and that he was subsequently told he couldnt do this. Also, 
he said he was later told he would be charged for using a standing order and it would be 
applied as an overpayment. This is what led him to cancel the loan. 
Mr L went on to say he wasnt happy with the compensation of £50 offered by Sainsburys. 
He wanted his money back and compensation for the stress he had suffered. Had he been 
told the correct information from the start, he said he would have cancelled the loan without 
charge. He also said he had to take another loan out with a higher interest rate. 
The investigator wrote to Mr L again. They said although incorrect information was given to 
Mr L, this was corrected before he decided to cancel the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the information Ive been provided with, that Mr L was told that he could 
make his loan repayments by way of standing order. I say this because having listened to 
the calls provided by Sainsburys, Im satisfied that although the call handler explained that a 
direct debit was its preferred option, he could make payments by way of a standing order as 
he wanted to. The call handler explained that he must make a minimum payment each 
month regardless of an overpayment. And it couldnt be less than his agreed monthly 
payment.
But Mr Ls concerns stem from what he says he was subsequently told about making 
payments by way of a standing order. Hes said he was then told he couldnt do so and that 
he would be charged for doing so. 
When Sainsburys responded to Mr Ls complaint, it explained that his account couldnt be 
changed to a four-week billing cycle. He was told that the payments could be made by an 
agreed date. The letter went on to say that if he chose to go ahead with a four-week 
standing order, it could cause issues as it would be receiving payments on different dates 
each month. It explained that if a payment was received before the monthly payment was 
due it would be treated as an overpayment. This would mean he needed to contact 
Sainsburys every time a payment was made to ensure it was reallocated manually to be 
used as his contracted payment.
I do understand Mr Ls frustration that paying by standing order was potentially problematic 
for him. But I dont agree that he was given incorrect information by Sainsburys that 
necessitated him cancelling his loan he had taken out with it. I think the information he 
received at the point of sale such as the key features document and loan agreement, 
explained how the loan operated and that payments needed to be made on the same date 
each month that they fell due. 
The letter Sainsburys sent Mr L in response to his complaint explained the potential 
administrative complications that might be caused as a result of paying by standing order 
might cause. And the correspondence Mr L had with Sainsburys confirmed what he needed 
to do. So, having considered everything Ive been provided with, Im not persuaded that Mr L 
was misled or treated unfairly by Sainsburys in relation to how payments needed to be 
made in respect of his loan. And as a result, I think the £50 it has offered is appropriate 
compensation. For the reasons Ive explained, Im also not persuaded that it is responsible 
for Mr L cancelling his loan when he did. 
My final decision
Sainsburys Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that only if Sainsburys Bank Plc hasnt already paid that compensation to 
Mr L; if he accepts my decision, it should pay him the £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman