DRN-2895977
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account, which was sold to him in 2009. Mr K says the reason the 
account was mis-sold is that he was given incorrect information about the travel insurance 
policy. Specifically, that he says he was told that the minimum trip duration for trips in the 
United Kingdom was two days but when he tried to claim in 2018 the insurer told him this 
was not the case.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold the 
account to Mr K. They said that the information that was provided at point of sale was correct 
and that if Mr K was unhappy with the handling of his travel insurance claim, then he would 
need to direct his concerns to the insurer.
Mr K did not accept this outcome. So his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. I should highlight that, as this complaint is against NatWest, this decision will only 
be addressing if the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold. It will not be looking at Mr Ks 
travel insurance claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this to help me to decide this case.
In this instance Mr K as said that the sole reason he believes his account was mis-sold is 
because he was given incorrect information when the account was sold. I have looked at the 
policy documents from the time of the sale and I can confirm that the information that was 
provided to Mr K was correct and that UK trips were covered if they were for 2 days or more. 
So I cant see that NatWest did anything wrong in relation to this.
That said, I can see that the minimum trip duration did change in 2013 from 2 to 3 days. I 
cant be sure that this was communicated to Mr K but this does not seem to have affected 
the claim that Mr K tried to make in 2018. I say this because he has confirmed that the trip 
was longer than 3 days. Moreover, the notes from the insurer suggest that the claim was not 
declined and it made an offer of settlement to Mr K which was not accepted. I should 
reiterate that the claim itself is an issue between Mr K and the insurer. So if Mr K is unhappy 
with the outcome of the claim, he would need to direct this back to the insurer. 
Overall I am satisfied that Mr K was given the correct information at the time of the sale. And 
even though NatWest changed the conditions of the travel insurance, I dont think that Mr K 
suffered a loss as a result of this. I note that Mr K is unhappy with how the travel insurance 
claim was resolved, but I cant hold Nationwide responsible for this as that is the 
responsibility of the travel insurer.
So taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough to say that the Advantage Gold 
account was mis-sold to Mr K, or that NatWest did anything else wrong in relation to the 
information that it provided him about the Travel Insurance benefit that caused Mr K to suffer 
a financial loss. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman