DRN-3480636
The complaint
Ms E complains about the way that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has administered a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms E contacted AXA to look into taking out a continuation personal private 
medical insurance policy. In June 2020, she took out the policy and was charged an annual 
premium of £2870.40 for the 2020-21 policy year. When the policy began, Ms E had a No 
Claims Discount (NCD) level of 67%. Ms E made two claims on the policy during that policy 
year.
Subsequently, in May 2021, Ms E got in touch with AXA to complain about the renewal price 
shed been quoted for the 2021-22 policy year  a total amount of £4215.72. 
AXA said the price was right. It told Ms E that the main reason for the price increase was 
because the claims shed made on the policy had reduced her NCD by three levels  to 
55%. It said the rest of the price rise was down to age and inflation increases.
Ms E was unhappy with AXAs position. She said that the NCD hadnt been explained to her 
when the policy was sold.  And she remained unhappy with the price rise. She wanted the 
policy to remain at the same level itd been when shed taken it out. So she asked us to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He listened to the sales call 
between Ms E and AXAs sales agent and felt that the agent had explained how the NCD 
worked. He also felt the NCD was clearly explained in the policy terms and conditions. And 
he was satisfied that AXA had shown Ms Es premium had increased as a result of the 
reduction of her NCD and due to age and medical inflation. So he concluded that AXA had 
treated Ms E fairly.
Ms E disagreed. She didnt think the sales agent had given quantitative or definitive answers 
to her question around premiums.  She also felt the policy wording around the NCD was 
much clearer than what shed been told by the agent and asked why the agent hadnt quoted 
the policy directly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms E, I think AXA has treated her fairly and Ill 
explain why.
It seems there are two key issues for me to decide. First, did AXA provide Ms E with enough 
clear information about the policy at the point of sale so that she could decide if it was right 
for her? And secondly, did AXA treat Ms E fairly when it calculated her 2021-22 renewal 
premium?
The policy sale
AXA didnt advise Ms E to take out the private medical insurance policy. So it didnt need to 
check it was suitable for her. But it did need to give her enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information to allow her to decide if the policy was right for her.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to the call between Ms E and AXAs sales agent. I 
acknowledge that the sales agent didnt use the exact NCD wording which was set out in the 
policy terms. But Im satisfied that the sales agent did tell Ms E that premiums would go up 
each year. He explained, in broad terms, how the NCD worked and the impact that claims 
could have on NCD levels. And he told Ms E that if she didnt make any claims, thered be 
less of an impact on her premium the next year.
The sales agent also told Ms E that he would send her a copy of the handbook (which 
formed the contract terms between Ms E and AXA) for her to have a look at. So Ive looked 
carefully at the Your no claims discount section of the membership handbook. This says:
If you dont make a claim, your no claims discount will increase. The discount builds every 
year that you dont claim, up to a maximum of 80%.
How does the no claims discount work?
The discount will apply to all or part of your subscription depending on the cover you have.
If we pay a claim for anyone on your membership, we will reduce the amount of the discount 
for that person by three levels until the discount reaches zero. We will do this when you 
renew. So if anyone on your membership claims and they currently have a 50% discount, it 
will go down to 25%.
If anyone on your membership does not make a claim, their discount increases by one level 
at renewal until they get to the maximum 80% discount.
Immediately underneath, the handbook sets out a diagram which explains how the NCD 
levels work. It isnt clear whether Ms E was sent a copy of the contract terms at that point, 
but what is clear is that she decided to take up the policy around three months later.
Following taking up the policy, Ms E was sent a membership certificate. This stated, on the 
plan overview, that she had an NCD of 67%. It also referred Ms E to her membership 
handbook to check certain cover points. If Ms E hadnt received a handbook by this point, I 
think its most likely that shed have got in touch with AXA to request a copy of this 
document.
In my view, the totality of the information Ms E was given, in both the phone call and the 
policy paperwork, clearly explained how the NCD worked. This means I think AXA gave Ms 
E enough clear information about the policy to allow her to decide if it was right for her. So I 
think it ought to have been sufficiently clear to Ms E - at the point she took up the policy - 
that if she made claims, her premium would be affected due to the consequent reduction in 
her NCD.
I note too that page 10 of the membership certificate sets out a policyholders cancellation 
rights if theyve changed their mind about the cover. In brief, this says that policyholders can 
cancel their policy within 14 days at no cost. These cancellation rights are also laid out in the policy contract. So I think that Ms E had the chance to review the policy paperwork and 
consider whether it matched what the sales agent had told her. If the policy didnt work in the 
way shed been led to understand it would, I think it was open to Ms E to cancel the policy 
within the relevant cooling-off period.
Overall, I dont think that AXA mis-sold the policy to Ms E.
Did AXA treat Ms E fairly when it calculated her renewal premium?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Ms Es. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
AXAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, Ms Es health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge to do so. 
So AXA will have assessed the risk of Ms E needing to make a claim when she first took out 
the continuation policy and then at the next policy renewal in 2021. If it considers the risk has 
gone up (for example, because claims have been made or because health care costs have 
gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in complaints like these, what I look at 
are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and whether its done so 
fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Ms E has been treated in the same way as any 
other AXA customer in similar circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way. 
Its clear that Ms Es renewal premium rose significantly at the 2021 renewal. So I can 
understand why shes worried that AXA hasnt treated her reasonably. AXAs given us the 
calculations to show how its worked out both Ms Es 2020 and 2021 premiums. Ive looked 
carefully at these calculations and I do think its calculated Ms Es 2020- 21 price fairly. 
Im sorry that I cant share all of the evidence which sets out the exact things AXAs taken 
into account when its calculated the price. But this information is commercially sensitive to 
AXAs business and so its confidential. What I can tell Ms E though are the main reasons 
why her premium increased. 
The main reason for the price rise was because the claims Ms E made meant her NCD 
dropped three levels  from 67% in year 1 to 55% in year 2. This was in line with the policy 
terms. And there was also an age and inflation-related increase, which Ms E had been told 
prior to taking up the policy would usually apply at each renewal.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXAs treated Ms E in the same way it would any 
other policyholder in similar circumstances to her own when it calculated her renewal 
premium. So I cant reasonably say its treated her unfairly. I note too that following the 
renewal premium, Ms E amended her policy options to bring down the price. So Im satisfied 
she was given the chance both to shop around if she wished to or to amend her policy to 
lower the premium.
In summary, I find that AXA treated Ms E fairly, both when it sold her policy and when it 
calculated her renewal premium. So Im not directing it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman