DRN-4515180
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing to lend to him.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr T entered into a Fixed Loan Sum agreement with NatWest. The 
application was made online for a loan of £10,000. The loan was agreed with a 9.9% Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) payable over 60 months in monthly instalments of £209.93.
In May 2017 Mr T entered into another Fixed Loan Sum agreement with NatWest. Again, the 
application was made online for a £10,000 loan. The loan was agreed with a 18.9%. APR 
payable over 60 months in monthly instalments of £251.10.
Mr T complained to NatWest as he didnt think theyd done enough to make sure the loans 
were affordable for him. He said if they had theyd have seen he had a gambling problem 
and was being paid cash in hand.
NatWest said that Mr T had met their automated lending criteria for both loans. Hed also 
applied for two other loans in between these which had been declined. And another after the 
second loan which had also been declined. NatWest said theyd a policy and process rule 
about gambling, and Mr Ts gambling fell below this threshold, so they said they hadnt acted 
irresponsibly in lending to him.
Mr T wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done proportionate checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr T. If they had they would have seen that the account Mr T had with them was regularly 
in the overdraft, and that there were a high number of gambling transactions and cash 
withdrawals. Also by the time of the second loan Mr Ts gambling had increased further. 
They said NatWest had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr T. And to put things right they 
should:
Refund any payments Mr T had made more than the amount originally lent. And 
should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment, if there 
were any, to the date of settlement and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding the 
agreements once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
NatWest accepted that further checks could have established Mr Ts increased gambling 
habit. And on balance, said the redress to put things right was fair.
Mr T didnt agree he said NatWest shouldnt have lent to him and so he shouldnt have any 
responsibility to repay any of the debt. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed that they should have done more before lending to Mr T in November 
2016 and May 2017. So in effect, Nat West have said their checks werent proportionate. So 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint based on what NatWest 
should have known at the time. Ill set out my thoughts with each loan below.
Loan A - £10,000 in November 2016 paid directly to Mr T.)
As NatWest have agreed this loan shouldnt have been approved, I wont go into great detail 
about what their checks should have shown. In reaching my decision I need to determine 
whether to ask NatWest to write off this loan as Mr T is wanting them to do, or if I agree to 
what NatWest has accepted as our investigators outcome. So Ive considered Mr Ts 
situation around the time this loan was approved.
I have reviewed Mr Ts bank statements prior to Loan A being approved. In the two months 
leading up to the loan approval, I can see that Mr T was using his overdraft for most of the 
two months, the amount varied, increasing and decreasing. But by the end of the second 
month it had increased by more than double. And the increases correlate to when some 
gambling transactions started to show on Mr Ts account towards the end of the second 
month.
Mr T has said he was paid cash in hand, and I can see from his bank statements the only 
non-discretionary spending was for a mobile phone. And this is supported by Mr Ts credit 
history. The bank statements dont show any transactions for day to day living. I can see that 
when monies were paid into the account, they were taken out virtually immediately as cash 
withdrawals. So, it would appear to show that Mr T managed his day to day living expenses 
with cash. I can see a large credit paid into his account for over £5,000 which was 
immediately transferred.
As already outlined, I think, and NatWest has agreed that it was irresponsible to lend to Mr 
T. But Im not persuaded that it would be foreseeable to NatWest from these bank 
statements that Mr T would use the loan money to gamble with. I say this because Mr Ts 
gambling prior to the loan being approved looked to be made from his available income.
So, Im not persuaded that it would be proportionate for NatWest to write off Loan As 
balance. But as they have admitted they shouldnt have loaned Mr T this money. Ill set out 
at the end of my decision the actions they should take on this loan.
Loan B - £10,000 in May 2017 paid directly to Mr T.)
Ive considered Mr Ts bank statement for the three months prior to the loan being entered 
into. And whether it would have been foreseeable for NatWest to know that Mr T would likely 
use any loan funds to gamble. And Im persuaded that it wouldve been apparent to them
that Mr T would use future borrowing to gamble, and Ill explain why.
Mr T had only been approved for his last NatWest personal loan in November 2016, which 
was only six months earlier. And NatWest has told us that hed applied for two loans in 
between this time which theyd declined. I can also see Mr Ts gambling activity had 
intensified as he started spending more than his income (which had also reduced), on 
gambling transactions.Mr Ts statement show that when he received his wages or credits into his account he 
tended to make his gambling transactions the same day. And there were times when Mr Ts 
gambling transactions would increase over the day which would suggest Mr T may have 
been trying to chase his losses, (although this wasnt always the pattern).
And his use of his overdraft had also considerably increased. Between the two loans Mr Ts 
overdraft had doubled to consistently being around £3,000.
NatWests records show the loan was taken out to consolidate debt, but the only debt I can 
see that Mr T had was his existing loan with them (November 2016) and his mobile phone. 
Mr T had his current account with NatWest and so theyd information which would suggest 
that Mr T was spending his funds on gambling making multiple transactions over a short 
period of time and using other borrowing (his overdraft) to pay for them. So based on the 
information NatWest had Im persuaded it was foreseeable that Mr T would spend any funds 
he borrowed on gambling and this would cause him harm and further indebtedness.
Mr T has struggled to make the loan repayments since the loan was granted and has only 
repaid a small amount of the loan since inception. At the time of the lending NatWest said  
Mr Ts income was around £2,000 per month. But since then, Mr Ts health has deteriorated, 
and he is no longer able to work and is in receipt of benefits. This leads me to conclude that 
theres little prospect of Mr T repaying the outstanding amount (on top of the repayments he 
needs to make for Loan A) and requiring him to do so would cause undue financial hardship.
Mr T has also shared that hes struggling with his mental wellbeing which has been impacted 
by his gambling and financial struggles.
Putting things right
Where we find that a business did something wrong, wed usually expect that business  in 
so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible 
lending this isnt straightforward.
Mr T has received the funds in question and will have used them. So, in these 
circumstances, we cant undo whats already been done. So Ive considered what I think is 
fair and reasonable taking into account the particular circumstances of the case.
Loan A
Mr T has had use of the money he was lent and so its fair that he should pay back the 
money lent to him. But NatWest should refund all the interest, fees and charges added as a 
result of the funds that were irresponsibly lent and ensure that Mr T pays no more than the 
amount lent.
So a new starting balance consisting of only the amount lent is left - and NatWest should 
deduct any payments Mr T has already made. If this results in him having paid too much,
then any overpayments should be refunded, adding *8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made and Mr T has a balance outstanding it isnt unfair for 
this amount to be repaid. I can see that NatWest has sold on Mr Ts debt and that he 
currently has a payment plan in place. It will be for NatWest to make known to the debt 
purchaser how much Mr T has left to repay (if any) after all the adjustments have been 
made.Loan B
For Loan B I think NatWest should write off the outstanding balance, refund all the 
repayments Mr T has made towards the loan to date, along with *8% interest on each 
payment amount from the date it was made to the date its refunded.
And NatWest should remove any adverse information relating to both loans from Mr Ts 
credit file and reflect that Loan B has been written off.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. And didnt ask for any further considerations to 
be made.
Mr T agreed with the outcome for Loan B but said that Loan A should also be written off.
Mr T said that his financial situation at the time NatWest lent to him showed he was using his 
overdraft and that gambling transactions were evident. By NatWest accepting they shouldnt 
have lent to him showed theyd failed in their duty of care as a lender. And by so doing they 
should put things right by writing off the loan. He also said  NatWest should refund all 
charges on his overdraft since his case has gone over to the collections department. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ts comments, but Ive not been persuaded to change my 
thinking. Ill explain why.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision where we find that a business did something 
wrong, wed usually expect that business  in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the 
consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong hadnt taken place. But when it 
comes to complaints about irresponsible or unaffordable lending this isnt straightforward. 
This is because the consumer will have received the funds in question and will have used 
them. So, in these circumstances, we cant undo whats already been done as things will 
have significantly moved on. And its simply not possible to put the consumer back in the 
position they would be in if the lender hadnt lent to them.
Mr T has said towards the end of the financial period before Loan A was taken out his 
financial circumstances did show some gambling transactions and an increase in the use of 
his overdraft. But I dont think it would have been foreseeable for NatWest to take from this 
that the money lent to Mr T would be solely used to fund his gambling transactions. And so 
Mr T would have had some benefit from the loaned amount. 
Our starting point for putting thigs right in this situation would be that as the borrower will 
have had the use of the money, they were lent its fair that they should repay the amount 
they were lent. But nothing more. So wed ask the lender to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges added as a result of the funds that were irresponsibly lent, so that the consumer 
paid no more than the amount lent. And this is what Ive asked NatWest to do for Loan A.
Ive considered the redress for Loan B differently as I think NatWest when they decided to 
lend to Mr T his financial situation was such that NatWest should have seen that it was now 
more likely than not that Mr T would use these funds for gambling. And so, Mr T wouldnt 
have had the benefit from the funds he was lent. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, but Ive considered what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. It will now be for Mr T to decide whether he 
wishes to accept or reject my decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask National Westminster Bank Plc for:
Loan A to
Remove all interest and charges applied. If the rework results in a credit balance, this 
should be refunded to Mr T along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, they should make known to 
the debt purchaser how much Mr T has left to repay after all the adjustments have 
been made. Or buy back the debt to ensure any redress is carried out.
Remove any adverse information regarding this account from Mr Ts credit file.
Loan B to
End the agreement and clear any outstanding balance.
Remove all interest and charges applied. If the rework results in a credit balance, this 
should be refunded to Mr T along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information regarding this account from Mr Ts credit file.
*If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that they are required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr T how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2024.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman