DRN-3173902
The complaint
Mr L complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) failed to keep to an 
agreement theyd made about the rate hed be charged for certain trades in his share 
dealing account.
What happened
Mr L had some large holdings in a particular share Ill call A. The share was denominated in 
another currency. When Mr L traded in this stock, IISL charged him an FX margin rate fee, 
which was calculated as a percentage of the value of the trade. That percentage became 
lower, the larger the trade.
Mr L wanted to sell a large number of A shares, but didnt want to execute one large 
transaction, so as to enable him to achieve the best price in the market overall. But doing 
this meant he would pay a higher FX margin rate on the smaller trades, than would have 
applied to one large trade. He spoke to IISL, who wrote to him in July 2019 saying:
If you receive multiple fills on your Australian orders which have different margin rates on, 
we will credit your trading account with the difference for the rate you would have received 
had the order been placed in full, for example: You place a £50,000 order - Split into 2 lines 
of fill, each of them carrying an FX margin of 1.25%, we would be willing to credit your 
trading account with the cash difference to take you to a 1% FX margin on your trade.
Mr L proceeded to place various trades  selling some of his existing A shares, as well as 
buying more  and a few months later got in touch with IISL to ask about the agreed cash 
rebate. IISL agreed to pay the rebate for some trades, but went on to say in an email in 
October 2019:
Moving forward our position will be that we will accommodate sales only of your remaining 
[A] holding. Any further purchases in [A] we would not accommodate any rebate in FX as 
when we originally agreed this arrangement for you we were of the understanding that you 
were looking to sell out of this holding and did not want to be exposed to a large FX charge.
Mr L continued to buy and sell A shares. In 2020 he again contacted IISL to request rebates 
on some of his FX margin rate charges. IISL declined, and Mr L complained. IISL didnt 
uphold his complaint, and said it had only ever agreed to rebate fees in order to allow Mr L to 
sell his total A holding in tranches in July 2019. It said it hadnt ever intended to offer an 
ongoing reduction to the fees it charged Mr L for transacting in this particular stock, as Mr L 
seemed to believe. It said:
The original agreement was that we would accommodate one sell out using one FX Charge 
for your then-current holding amount. It clearly stated that we would not accommodate any 
further purchases in [A] as the original agreement was made on the basis that you were 
looking to sell out of [A]. Going forward, if you still wish to sell out of [A], as a goodwill 
gesture we are still prepared to complete one final sell out so you which means you would 
only receive one FX Charge. However, this would only be for its current stock amount of 
117,000.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked into things. He 
thought IISLs initial email in July 2019 was unclear. He said it was reasonable for Mr L to 
understand from that email hed be rebated on any trades in A, until IISL clarified things in 
October 2019. He said IISL should rebate any trades Mr L placed between July and October 
2019, and pay him £100 to say sorry.
IISL said it would pay the £100 compensation. It didnt agree it should rebate fees on all Mr 
Ls trades during those dates  but identified six trades where it said it would do so.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator or IISLs offer. He said IISL should honour its original 
offer which was to rebate all trades in A.
The matter was passed to me to decide, and I wrote to the parties to set out my initial 
thoughts. I said IISL should rebate those trades where Mr L carried out multiple sell orders in 
A on the same day, but didnt think it was fair for it to apply the rebate more widely to any 
other individual trades. IISL agreed to pay Mr L for two additional trades which fell within 
those criteria, in addition to the trades it had offered to rebate after the investigators view. 
Mr L maintained that a fair outcome would be for IISL to make payments against all the 
trades he carried out in the stock before he complained in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the rebates Mr L is asking for arent and werent part of the contractual 
arrangement he had with IISL. Mr L says that it offered to charge him differently for trades in 
this stock, without the restrictions it latterly tried to add, and it should stand by that.
IISL on the other hand says it only ever intended its offer as a one-off, to allow Mr L to 
effectively place one big trade in smaller chunks without paying a higher FX margin rate. It 
says it didnt intend Mr L to have a bespoke charging arrangement for this stock indefinitely.
Even if that was IISLs intention, I dont think thats what it communicated to Mr L. And I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for it to retrospectively change the terms of an agreement 
it reached with Mr L. But I dont think it would be fair to interpret IISLs offer as broadly as Mr 
L does, either.
Where this arrangement for how Mr L would be charged FX margin wasnt contractual, I 
dont think its something IISL ought fairly to be held to indefinitely. If it changes its mind and 
no longer wants to offer it, thats a decision its free to make. But as Ive said I think it would 
be fair for it to honour the agreement it made until it told Mr L it was no longer willing to 
charge him in that way any longer.
IISL says the offer was intended to cover a one-off sale of Mr Ls holdings in A. But its email 
in July 2019 isnt as specific as that. It simply says for orders in A, if Mr L gets multiple fills 
with different margin rates, it will treat them as if they were one large order and rebate Mr L 
as if hed paid FX margin accordingly. I think it was fair and reasonable for Mr L to take from 
this that this wasnt limited to one order or set of orders in the stock. And to the extent IISL 
clarified matters in October 2019, it said this offer would apply only to sell orders in A 
attributable to the amount of shares Mr L held at that time. Again though I dont think IISL 
made it clear Mr L needed to carry out these sells in one go, or in any particular timeframe.
Where that ambiguity exists I think its fair and reasonable for it to be resolved in Mr Ls favour. I therefore think IISL should look at all Mr Ls trades in A since July 2019 and apply 
the rebate where applicable. That doesnt, however, mean I think all Mr Ls trades in A ought 
fairly to be charged FX margin in the way described in IISLs July 2019 email.
There is, in my view, an understanding this approach is to account for one large order being 
split into smaller ones. While I dont think it was clear enough that IISL meant Mr Ls whole 
holding in one go, I also dont think it would be fair for Mr L to take from that email this meant 
he could trade as he saw fit in A, and all the transactions would be charged a lower FX 
margin rate.
Mr L has traded at various times in various sizes in A between July 2019 and when he 
complained in 2020. Some of those trades (for which he asks for rebates) were single 
transactions with no other buys or sells particularly soon before or after. I dont think its 
reasonable for Mr L to see these as multiple fills on a large order, and therefore to have 
expected IISL to treat them as part of a large order for the purposes of the margin rate.
I dont know Mr Ls thought processes when placing his trades. But I think it would be 
reasonable to say any occasions on which he placed multiple sell orders on the same day 
were multiple fills which could have been seen as part of a larger order. Those trades placed 
on days with no other orders in A wouldnt meet that definition, in my view.
So given the way IISL presented its offer in July 2019 and subsequently clarified it, I think it 
would be fair for Mr L to be rebated on those trades where multiple sells were placed on the 
same day, and not on any other trades. And further, that the overall number of shares Mr L 
could sell and be rebated for in this way was capped at his holding in October 2019.
I also agree with our investigator that failing to carry out its original agreement, and causing 
Mr L to repeatedly question the arrangement, was inconvenient and upsetting for him. I think 
£100 is fair compensation for that.
Putting things right
In order to put things right IISL should:
Identify any trades between July 2019 and August 2020 where Mr L sold shares in A 
more than once on the same day (qualifying trades).
Calculate the difference between the amount of FX margin rate Mr L paid, and how 
much hed have paid if all the trades on a given day had been one larger order.
Pay Mr L that difference.
Establish how many shares in A Mr L held on the date it sent him the October 2019 
email referred to above (the holding).
If the qualifying trades Mr L placed after IISLs email in October 2019 comprise more 
shares than the holding, IISL may limit its calculation to those trades up to and 
including the one in which that number of shares was sold.
Pay Mr L £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited should 
pay Mr L compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman