DRN-2223467
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a medical expenses claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 December 2018, Mr H took out a single trip travel insurance policy online through a 
broker to cover a trip he was taking later that month. During the online sales process, he 
declared that he suffered from high blood pressure and high cholesterol. He paid an 
additional premium to Great Lakes so that it would cover those conditions. Policy cover 
began on 22 December 2018. Mr H travelled as planned.
Unfortunately, while Mr H was abroad, he was admitted to hospital suffering from sepsis. He 
incurred significant medical expenses and a claim was made on his travel insurance policy 
for the costs associated with his treatment.
Great Lakes looked into Mrs Hs claim. It asked his GP for copies of his medical records. It 
noted from the records that in May 2017, Mr H had been admitted into hospital for 10 days 
suffering from acute cholecystitis. During this admission, Mr H had also been diagnosed with 
a Type II myocardial infarction (MI). But Mr H hadnt told it about those conditions when he 
took out the policy. So Great Lakes turned down Mr Hs claim. And it said if Mr H had told it 
about those conditions too, it would never had offered him a policy at all.
Mr H was unhappy with Great Lakes decision. The treating hospital abroad referred his fees 
onto a debt recovery company. Mr H said he had no way to repay the expenses and he was 
very worried. He also said he didnt know hed had cholecystitis or an MI. Hed just been told 
he had sepsis in 2017. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He felt the available medical 
evidence suggested that Mr H had suffered from cholecystitis and MI during the timeframe 
hed been asked about during the online sale. He accepted Mr H hadnt deliberately sought 
to mislead Great Lakes about his health. But he thought Mr H had most likely known about 
those conditions and that he ought reasonably to have declared them during the sale. He 
was satisfied that Great Lakes had shown that if Mr H had declared his medical history to it, 
it wouldnt have provided him with insurance. So he thought it was fair for Great Lakes to 
turn down Mr Hs claim.
Mr H disagreed. He maintained that hed never been told he had acute cholecystitis or had 
suffered an MI. He said he was vulnerable and had no way of paying the debt.
The complaints been passed to me. I asked Great Lakes to confirm whether it would refund 
Mr Hs policy premium if I decided it had treated him fairly. Great Lakes has told me it will do 
so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand how disappointed Mr H will be with my decision, I think 
Great Lakes has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
When Mr H took out the policy online, he was asked information about himself, his trip and 
his medical conditions. This information was passed onto Great Lakes, which used it to 
decide whether or not to insure Mr H and if so, on what terms.
Great Lakes says that Mr H didnt correctly answer the questions he was asked during the 
online sale. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mr Hs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions that Mr H was asked were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mr H was asked when he took out the policy.
Great Lakes included a screenshot which set out one of the questions Mr H was asked 
during the online sales process. This asked:
Do any travellers have any medical conditions?
Please select yes if in the last 2 years, You or anyone else on this policy have:
 Had any surgery, inpatient, or outpatient treatment or any referrals or investigations of any 
sort? This includes awaiting the results of any tests or on waiting list?
 Taken prescription medication, or received any medical treatment for ANY Medical 
Condition. This will not apply to common colds, flu or contraceptive medication.
 Received any medical advice or treatment for any respiratory condition relating to the lungs 
or breathing?
 Received any medical advice or treatment for any heart, stroke and diabetic condition?
 Suffered from anxiety, depression or any psychological condition?
Mr H had to answer yes or no to this question. Mr H answered yes and declared that he 
suffered from high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Great Lakes agreed to cover Mr H 
based on that declaration and calculated the price it would need to charge to do so. 
Great Lakes maintains that in addition to these two conditions, Mr H should also have 
disclosed acute cholecystitis and MI. It doesnt think he took reasonable care to answer the 
question. So Ive looked carefully at Mr Hs medical records and thought about what hes told 
us about his medical history to decide whether I think he took reasonable care to answer 
Great Lakes question.
The original claim form Mr Hs GP filled out for Great Lakes stated that he had been an 
inpatient between 21 May and 31 May 2017, suffering from acute cholecystitis, AKI (acute 
kidney injury) and a type II myocardial infarction. This admission was around 18 months 
before Mr H took out the policy online and therefore, falls within the timeframe Great Lakes 
asked him about during the sale.I appreciate Mr H says he didnt know that hed suffered these conditions. Hed believed that 
admission was down to sepsis. Ive thought carefully about what hes said.
Mr Hs GP wrote again to Great Lakes in May 2019 setting out further information about Mr 
Hs admission. The GP said:
He was admitted tohospital from 21.05.17 until 31.05.17 with septic shock and 1) Acute 
cholecystitis 2) AKI, resolved, 3) Type II MI. This gentleman was admitted following a 
collapse, with septic shock, secondary to acute cholecystitis
Complications included AKI secondary to hypoperfusion and also a type 2 MI. It was 
discussed with cardiology and advised to treat as a Type 2 MIECHO showed mild LV 
dysfunction.
I think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the medical information it was provided by Mr Hs 
GP. The evidence suggests he received treatment for acute cholecystitis and for the MI. It 
also appears his MI was discussed with the cardiology team and that he underwent an 
echocardiogram of his heart. 
Given Mr Hs notes also show that hed previously undergone surgery for coronary artery 
disease, I think its more likely than not that his treating doctors wouldve told him that hed 
suffered an MI. And also the main reason for his admission to hospital. So I think, on 
balance, it was reasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr H likely knew about these 
diagnoses and that he ought to have declared them to it. I think the question was clear 
enough that it shouldve prompted Mr H to declare his hospitalisation in May 2017. I note he 
didnt declare septic shock either, although this wouldve fallen within the scope of Great 
Lakes question too.
Overall, I think Mr H did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Great 
Lakes is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. Great Lakes 
doesnt think Mr H deliberately sought to mislead it. It thinks he was careless when he told it 
about his health. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this was a reasonable conclusion.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled to rewrite the 
policy as if it had all of the information it wanted to know. If it wouldnt have offered a policy 
at all, then its entitled to treat the policy as if it never existed and return the premium the 
policyholder paid.
In this case, Great Lakes has carried out a retrospective medical screening which shows that 
if Mr H had declared acute cholecystitis and type II MI, it wouldnt have offered him any 
cover at all. And its now told me it will refund the premium Mr H paid it. On this basis, I think 
Great Lakes is acting in line with CIDRA. It will now need to refund Mr Hs premium.
I do appreciate that Mr H will be very disappointed by my decision and I do sympathise with 
his position. But based on all Ive seen, Im satisfied Great Lakes has treated Mr H fairly and 
reasonably.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman