The complaint
Miss N complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit 
limit increase on her credit card and, a few months later, gave her a second credit card. 
What happened
In February 2012 Miss N took out a Capital One credit card with a £1,000 limit. In June 2013 
Capital One increased the credit limit to £1,250. In February 2017 Capital One agreed to 
increase the credit limit to £2,000. In May 2017 Miss N applied for a second Capital One 
credit card and was approved with a £750 limit. 
In October 2019 Miss N complained to Capital One and said it had lent irresponsibly by 
increasing her credit limit and approving a new credit card. Capital One responded on 26 
November 2019 but didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint. Capital One didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly and said it had checked whether the credit it approved was affordable. Capital 
One said it had found a default on Miss Ns credit file before it agreed to approve her second 
credit card but confirmed its decision to proceed had taken that into account.
Miss N referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said we could only look at events that had happened after November 2013 
because of the time limits set out in our rules. The investigator looked at the credit limit 
increase from £1,250 to £2,000 on Miss Ns original account as well as Capital Ones 
decision to approve a second credit card. The investigator didnt agree that Capital One had 
lent irresponsibly and Miss N asked to appeal. As a result, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has confirmed she understands why our service cant look at Capital Ones decision 
to approve her original credit card or the first increase because of the time limits in our rules. 
My decision will look at events that occurred after November 2013. 
In February 2017 Capital One approved a credit limit increase from £1,250 to £2,000. Capital 
One has sent us the information it used to base its lending decision. Before a business 
agrees to lend, it needs to complete proportionate checks to ensure the repayments are 
sustainable for the borrower. Capital One says it looked at Miss Ns account history and has 
noted that she regularly made payments in excess of the minimum payment. Capital One 
says there were a few instances where Miss Ns balance had exceeded the credit limit but all 
her payments had been made on time. Capital One says it found Miss N had incurred a 
reasonably small default around 33 months before, but took that into account when deciding 
DRN-1693176whether to increase the credit limit. Capital One says it will lend, even if theres some 
adverse credit on a consumers credit file. 
Miss N has pointed out she had gone over her credit limit in the months before Capital Ones 
decision to increase it. Whilst thats true, I note the highest balance was around £30 over the 
agreed limit and repaid by Miss N the following month. Im satisfied Capital One took that 
into account before it decided to lend. Im sorry to disappoint Miss N, but I can see Capital 
One looked at her account history and checked her credit file before increasing her credit 
limit. I understand Miss Ns point that any excess payment she made to reduce her 
outstanding balance was used by the following month. But I can see Capital One took her 
repayment history into account before taking the decision to lend. 
Im satisfied it did complete proportionate checks and its decision to proceed was reasonable 
based on what it knew about Miss N. 
In May 2017 Miss N applied for a new credit card and Capital One approved it with a limit of 
£750. Capital One completed a credit check and also asked Miss N for information about her 
circumstances. Miss N told Capital One she was employed with an income of £28,000. 
In line with Miss Ns original credit card, Im satisfied that Capital One did complete 
reasonable checks to ensure that the new credit card she applied for was affordable. I think 
its decision to approve the new credit card was reasonable, based on the information 
Capital One had about Miss Ns circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss N as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I 
havent found that Capital One lent irresponsibly. I think Capital One dealt with Miss Ns 
complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman