DRN-3994559
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused to refund 
the money he has lost following him falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr K found a link on social media offering an opportunity to invest with a 
business I will call X. Mr K carried out some research on X and clicked on a link. Mr K 
completed a contact form and was contacted by X.
X explained the investment opportunity to Mr K and that he would have to set up an account 
with the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Binance to make his investment payments to X. 
convinced that the investment was genuine Mr K did as he was instructed by X.
Mr K started by making small payments and could see his funds showing on Xs platform. Mr 
K made several more payments before deciding to make a withdrawal from the investment. 
At this stage X requested more money from Mr K to release his funds, and he realised he 
had been scammed.
Mr K made the following payments to X using his debit card via Binance:
1. 25 July 2022 - £25
2. 25 July 2022 - £46
3. 26 July 2022 - £231
4. 26 July 2022 - £15
5. 26 July 2022 - £542
6. 26 July 2022 - £15
7. 26 July 2022 - £1,740
8. 26 July 2022 - £32
Mr K has not been able to recover the funds he lost to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr K 
disagreed, he said Halifax should have done more to protect him from the scam. 
As Mr K disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr K and Halifax set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Halifax should 
refund any of the money Mr K has lost because of this scam.
Halifax would not have been able to process a chargeback for the payments Mr K made in 
relation to this scam to Binance via debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr K was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr K didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Binance). This is important because Halifax was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Binance), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ks payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr K paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Mr K any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr K has accepted he authorised the payments that were made from his account with 
Halifax, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr K is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
I have looked at the payments Mr K made to Binance.
All the payments Mr K made to Binance were for a relatively low amount that I wouldnt have 
expected to have triggered Halifaxs fraud prevention systems. Mr K had also made similar 
size payments in the 12 months leading up to the scam, so the size of the payments would 
not be seen as unusual for his account either. 
While Mr K had started to pay a new business, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say 
Halifax should step in every time one of its customers starts to pay a new business, 
especially when that business is legitimate. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that the payments Mr K made to Binance didnt 
trigger Halifaxs fraud prevention systems. So, I dont think Halifax would have been aware 
of the scam or been able to prevent it. 
For these reasons Halifax is not responsible for Mr Ks loss, and it doesnt have to refund 
any of the payments he made.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman