DRN-2670141
The complaint
Mrs E complains that The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) have unfairly removed cover from her 
Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) claim.
Where I refer to Lloyds this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Mrs Es complaint has been brought through a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having come from Mrs E herself. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2013 Mr B (Mrs Es then husband) commissioned a surveyors report about a house 
Mrs E was considering buying. Later the same year Mrs E purchased the house. In 2015 
Mrs E discovered problems with the house which impacted upon its value  she believes 
these issues ought to have been highlighted in the survey. By this point Mrs E had separated 
from Mr B. 
In May 2015 Mrs E made a claim to Lloyds who provided her LEI insurance. She wanted to 
take legal action against the surveyor. I understand that solicitors were appointed, and the 
claim continued. In 2017 a barristers opinion was sought in relation to the claim. Part of this 
opinion said: There was no contract between [Mrs E] and [the surveyor]. The claim will need 
to be based on a duty of care alone. 
Based on this, in November 2017, Lloyds withdrew any further funding from the claim. In 
essence they said that the lack of a contractual relationship between Mrs E and the surveyor 
meant that no insured event had taken place. They acknowledged that she might have a 
claim in law  which might have reasonable prospects of success  but it wasnt something 
that the policy provides cover for.
In 2020 a complaint was raised and when Lloyds maintained their position the matter was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld, 
in summary she thought it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the legal opinion that Mrs E didnt 
have a contractual relationship with the surveyor. Mrs E disagreed and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold it and Ill explain why. 
Under the heading of Contract Disputes Mrs Es policy says there is cover for A dispute 
arising out of an agreement or alleged agreement you have entered into for buying or hiring 
consumer goods or services  Its accepted that Mr B entered into the agreement with the 
surveyor, not Mrs E. The barristers opinion from 2017 confirms this. At the relevant time 
they were married, and Mr B would have been eligible to make a claim under the policy. But 
I understand that he isnt willing to co-operate in bringing a breach of contract claim against 
the surveyor.
The barristers opinion is clear that Mrs E doesnt have a contractual relationship with the 
surveyor. As such, it appears that she would be unable to bring a claim for a breach of 
contract herself. If Mr B were willing to co-operate, (and subject to other policy terms being 
met) its likely such a claim would be covered.
The claim that I understand has been pursued is a claim in tort for a breach of duty. Its 
alleged that the surveyor owed Mrs E a duty of care and that his failure has caused her a 
loss. But legal action to pursue a claim of this type isnt something that the policy provides 
cover for. There are various sections of LEI cover, but nothing to assist in this regard.
Mrs E suggests that it would be fair and reasonable for the policy to provide her with cover. 
This is because it will commonly be one person (of a couple) that might enter into any given 
contract for the benefit of their household. And so she reasonably should expect to be 
covered. Mrs E says that this is a fundamental issue that will impact many LEI policies. 
Ive thought carefully about this but Im not persuaded that there is a basis upon which to tell 
Lloyds they need to reinstate cover. The policy allows for claims to be made by any member 
of the household who permanently resides at the insured address. So irrespective of which 
of a couple might have entered into a contract, cover is available if that person wishes to 
bring a claim. In this case, it is Mr Bs unwillingness to assist in a claim that leaves Mrs E 
bringing a claim based on a duty of care and not a breach of contract. And the policy doesnt 
provide cover for a claim based on a breach of a duty of care by a surveyor.
I dont agree that the policy term quoted above is unfair. The policy covers contract disputes, 
but as she wasnt party to the contract, Mrs E cant bring that claim. And I dont think the fact 
that Mr B is unwilling to bring the claim, means its reasonable to expect Lloyds to provide 
her with further cover, outside of that which the policy includes. I dont think there is anything 
so unusual or exceptional about this case that means it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct Lloyds to cover Mrs Es legal claim which isnt an insured event under her policy.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs E responded and made some further 
comments which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I 
can go ahead with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has pointed out that beyond the heading under which it appears, the term quoted 
above does not confine the cover to disputes brought in contract. She says that many 
disputes include elements of tort and contract and that they commonly run concurrently. She 
also points out that the costs of running such a claim will be similar in either case, with no 
prejudice being caused to the insurer. Beyond this she says that a typical policyholder (and 
indeed Mrs E herself) understood the term to be applicable to her situation. She says the 
distinction between a dispute in contract and a dispute in tort is not one that a reasonable 
person could be expected to understand. Whilst I understand Mrs Es argument, I dont agree that the policy term is unclear, unfair or 
worded in such a way that a reasonable interpretation is that it would extend to include the 
dispute Mrs E wishes to pursue. Mrs E didnt enter into an agreement or alleged agreement 
with the surveyor  Mr B did. Mrs E also presumably would have had the option to have 
been party to the instructing of the surveyor either in her own name, or jointly with Mr B, 
particularly when such a significant purchase as a property was involved. 
Mrs E says that the essence of my decision is based on the legal nicety of the status of the 
term Contract Dispute. She also says her claim had progressed for some time before this 
issue was raised as a defence to liability. It was only when counsel pointed this out, that 
Lloyds sought to deny further cover  she doesnt believe this is treating a customer fairly. 
I think its fair for an insurer to rely on suitably qualified legal opinion when making a decision 
about a claim  unless such an opinion is very obviously wrong. Lloyds themselves arent 
legal experts. So, even if it could conclusively be shown that Lloyds initially accepted the 
claim in error, in the circumstances of this complaint, it wouldnt persuade me that it was 
unfair for Lloyds to change their position when they were presented with the barristers 
opinion. 
Mrs E says that there is nothing in the policy which states that if one member of the 
household doesnt wish to co-operate in the bringing of a claim then the policy will be 
invalidated. But this isnt a case where Lloyds are using Mr Bs lack of co-operation to invoke 
a policy term or exclusion. The legal position the barrister has set out is clear that there is no 
legal claim for a breach of contract that Mrs E can bring herself. Cover is likely to be 
available (subject to remaining terms) if Mr B were co-operative. And I dont think his lack of 
willingness to do so, means Lloyds need to extend the cover to include a claim in tort  
something Im satisfied the policy doesnt provide for. 
Overall, I acknowledge that Lloyds have an obligation to treat their customers fairly. And 
whilst Im sympathetic to the position Mrs E finds herself in, I dont think Lloyds need to do 
more to resolve this complaint. Im satisfied that the policy only provides cover for contract 
disputes and that this is made sufficiently clear. The barrister concluded that Mrs E cannot 
bring a claim for a breach of contract. And I dont agree that Lloyds obligation to treat their 
customers fairly, in the circumstances here, means they ought to have offered additional 
cover beyond that which the policy provides. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman