DRN-3133205
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2013, Mr P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call E 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of E, Mr P decided to purchase the system. He paid 
£4,000 using his credit card with Tesco Personal Finance, and paid the balance with two 
debit card payments (another £2,050 in total). The system was subsequently installed about 
a year later, in August or September 2014.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim to Tesco Personal Finance on Mr Ps behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, E had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr P to enter into the contract with E. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding and so would not cost him anything;
the feed-in tariff (FIT) and savings on electricity bills would provide enough income to 
cover the monthly credit card repayments; and
the system would pay for itself in five years.
Tesco Personal Finance issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the 
system had been misrepresented to Mr P or that there were any other reasons for the claim 
to be upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator upheld the complaint. In summary, this 
was because she accepted that a misrepresentation had occurred, and that fair redress 
would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding over five 
years. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance.
Tesco Personal Finance didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
the evidence showed that the system was performing as predicted, and so there was 
no evidence that a misrepresentation had occurred;
Mr P had paid off nearly the whole of his credit card payment the next day, so any 
monthly card repayments attributable to the purchase would have been very small 
and would have been met by the income and savings from the system;
there was no evidence that the £2,050 had ever been paid; alternatively Mr P might 
be able to bring another section 75 claim against a third party and so receive double 
recovery (if the balance had not really been paid by debit card); for both of these 
reasons Tesco Personal Finance asked to see evidence of the debit card payments 
having been made;
the evidence showed that Mr P had been told the system would pay for itself in either 
five and a half years or six and a half years, not in five years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Tesco Personal Finance agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Tesco 
Personal Finance, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by E in the 
same way he could have claimed against E, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
E, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of Tesco Personal 
Finance.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Tesco Personal 
Finance. These include the solar quote, FIT calculator, FIT generation statements, invoice, 
and Mr Ps credit card statement. Ive considered these in detail, and in particular whether 
they support the alleged representations made by E.
Credit card payments
The FIT calculator shows that E estimated that the system would generate a total of £787 in 
FIT income and electricity bill savings in the first year. This equates to an average monthly 
figure of about £65 (although FIT income is paid quarterly, and the system will generate 
more income and savings during the summer than in winter).
It is not in dispute that Mr P paid £4,000 on his Tesco Personal Finance credit card. I have 
not seen evidence of what Mr Ps minimum payments would have been if he had not 
immediately paid back most of this sum the next day, so I dont know whether £65 a month 
(on average) would have been enough to cover these. But I think that is a moot point, 
because the next day Mr P made a single repayment of £3,450 on his credit card.That is significant, because while I cannot exclude the remote possibility that Mr P simply 
changed his mind overnight, this evidence casts significant  perhaps insurmountable  
doubt on a crucial premise of his case, namely that he did not expect to incur a significant 
outlay in buying the panels (other than the £2,050 in debit card payments), and that the 
benefits of the system would cover his credit card payments. So on the balance of 
probabilities, I think that whatever the salesman told Mr P about this, it did not induce him to 
enter into the contract, and that he would still have bought the system anyway.
But for completeness, I do not accept that the salesman told him that the system would 
cover the monthly credit card payments. It is unlikely that the salesman would have known 
what these would be (especially since new purchases would cause these to fluctuate 
unpredictably).
I expect that the minimum payments attributable to the remaining balance on Mr Ps card (if 
he had made no more purchases with it) would certainly have been covered by the income 
and savings derived from the system. So I dont think there was a misrepresentation about 
the systems cost versus benefit analysis.
For the same reason, I dont think it really matters whether Mr P was told the system would 
take five, five and a half, or six and a half years to pay for itself. Im satisfied that he would 
have bought the system based on any of those figures. I also think that the system is likely to 
pay for itself in not too much longer a period than six and a half years anyway, for reasons 
I will discuss in the next section.
Performance
Ive also considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between E and Mr P. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,226 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ps FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,429 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by E at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as or slightly better than expected.
I have considered the CMCs observation that Mr P has still not received the financial returns 
he was expecting. Even though the panels are not under-performing in terms of FIT 
generation, as measured in kWh, the CMC says they have not performed as E estimated as 
measured in pounds sterling. So I have considered why that might be. And based on what 
I have seen in other cases, I think it is because actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, and so the savings achieved through the energy generated by the 
system has been correspondingly lower.
So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the 
point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used 
by E at the time Mr P entered into the contract.
Since FIT income makes up a larger proportion of the benefit of the system than the energy 
savings, I think that the system will pay for itself within a reasonable time, if not within six 
and a half years then not too long afterwards.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
currently satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by E that induced Mr P 
to enter into the contract for the system, and no breach of contract by E, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. So there is no reason for me to depart 
from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
I am reinforced in my opinion about Mr Ps minimum payments (in the penultimate paragraph 
of the section above titled Credit card payments) by the fact that, on looking again at Mr Ps 
credit card statement, I have noticed that after he paid the £3,450 to his credit card on the 
day after he bought the solar panels, his account was actually £664 in credit.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022. The CMC may respond on his behalf. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman