DRN-3412935
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) wont refund disputed transactions that were 
sent to a cryptocurrency account from her bank account. 
What happened
In January 2021, Miss S said she created a cryptocurrency account, with the help of her 
cousin, transferring £5 from her bank account. Over the following few weeks, more than 
£2,000 was also transferred from her bank account to the cryptocurrency account. Miss S 
says these additional transfers were not made by her. She said her cousin has access to her 
online banking account and that her cousins friend may have been involved in the fraudulent 
activity.       
Lloyds investigated and decided not to refund the transactions. It said there was no evidence 
of fraudulent activity. It thought Miss S had authorised the transfers or made them herself 
because:
It could see the transactions were made using the same internet protocol (IP) 
address as used when Miss S confirmed other genuine spend. 
Some of the disputed transactions were made after other funds were paid in that 
would allow the payment to go ahead. It said it couldnt see how someone else 
would know this information.
As Miss S didnt agree with Lloyds decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He explained that a new 
device had been registered to access the online banking application and to do this, she had 
received an Enhanced Internet Authentication call (EIA) to her registered phone number to 
confirm the new device. It was also noted that the online bank account had been checked 
from her original device at least 9 times during the period of the disputed transactions, using 
biometrics. Despite this, she hadnt disputed the transactions with Lloyds until early February 
2021.
In summary, he felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently 
and was persuaded they were most likely made or authorised by Miss S.
Miss S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a detailed outline of the relevant considerations, so I wont repeat 
them in full here. The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Miss S gave 
consent for the transactions to be made or whether it was likely done by someone else 
without her knowledge  and by extension, whether its fair for Lloyds to hold her liable for 
the payments. 
I understand how strongly Miss S feels about this complaint. She has raised a number of 
points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything she 
has said, but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having reviewed the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
I think its more likely than not that the transactions were either made by Miss S or by 
someone known to Miss S who had her authority to access her personal internet banking 
account. 
I say this for the following reasons:
The payments were made from a mobile banking device that was set up only 19 
minutes after the initial £5 transaction that Miss S confirmed she did herself. If this 
was done by a fraudster, they would not only need to know Miss S banking details 
but also get hold of her phone, answer the EIA call and then return the phone without 
her knowledge, all within 19 minutes of Miss S last known use of the device. While 
this is possible, I think its unlikely. 
Disputed payments were often made shortly after money came into the account that 
would allow the payment to go ahead. I cant see how a third party would know this 
information.
The account was regularly checked during the time of the transactions from Miss S 
original device using biometrics. This often occurred a few minutes before and / or 
after a transaction was made. If this was a fraudster, they would have needed to 
repeatedly gain access to Miss S original device as well as the newly set up device, 
without her knowledge which I think is unlikely and there would be no plausible 
explanation as to why they would do this. I think it was more than likely Miss S was 
logging in on the original device and that she was reviewing the account activity. I 
therefore think she should have been aware of the disputed transactions earlier than 
she contacted Lloyds to report them.
Miss S said that no one had access to her cryptocurrency account other than herself. 
If an unauthorised third party carried out the disputed transactions, they would need 
access to it to benefit from it.
Despite requests to Miss S, we have been unable to see a copy of the 
cryptocurrency account transactions. This would enable us to see what had 
happened to the money once received. There may be no financial loss if no action 
was taken with the funds deposited. 
The bank statements provided by Lloyds shows additional transactions to the 
cryptocurrency account in March 2021 that Miss S confirmed are genuine. I think its 
surprising that Miss S continued to invest via an account she believes has been 
compromised. The bank statements also show that she has utilised other cryptocurrency platforms which indicates she has an appetite for this type of financial 
investment.  
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Miss S more likely than not 
authorised the disputed transactions. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold her liable for 
them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman