DRN-2824125
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with First Rand 
Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr N entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
for a used car, which was just over seven years old and had a mileage of 90,700.
Mr N says that within a few days of acquiring the car found that it didnt drive as hed 
expected, and he found it rough and juddery. He says he took it to a local garage for it 
to be looked at and they reported they had found an oil leak to the off-side of the engine, 
that the drivers side undertray was missing, that the fuel pipes had been cut and joined 
leading to fouling in the body and at the rear, that the front engine undertray was missing, 
that there were warning lights illuminated (in particular the park brake and service), there 
was a knocking noise from the drivers side CV joint, that there was flywheel judder under 
gear change and the clutch pedal was stiff.
Mr N contacted the supplying dealership who took the car back for investigation. It agreed 
to undertake repairs to the flywheel, clutch, ABS sensor and CV joints. Mr N says that the 
car had to go back and forth to the dealership and so, in March 2019, he complained to 
MotoNovo.
MotoNovo contacted the supplying dealership who said it was repairing the issues with 
the car, and that it was also testing the fuel lines and timing belt. The dealership reported 
that it found no faults with either the timing belt or the fuel line, but repairs were carried 
out to the clutch, flywheel, offside and nearside front bushes, an oil leak was diagnosed, 
and the off- side CV joint was replaced. MotoNovo closed Mr Ns complaint as it said the 
repairs were in hand.
Mr N collected the car but says that the issues with the car remained. He also says that 
the car was returned to him with a cracked windscreen. He complained again to 
MotoNovo who asked him to provide a diagnostic report. So, Mr N took the car back to 
his local garage who said they had conducted a visual check of the car and reported an 
oil leak from the offside of the engine, an engine sump plug leak, the lower gearbox 
engine bolt had snapped, the fuel pipes were chaffed and fouling, the nearside CV joint 
was insecure and leaking grease, there was a judder from the gearbox when setting off 
from warm and the windscreen was cracked. The garage reported the cars mileage as 
92,700.
MotoNovo requested that the car was inspected by an independent engineer and report 
prepared. The independent engineer said that they had found the following: that there was 
a severe oil leak from the off-side of the engine and possibly a sump plug leak; there had 
been heavy impact damage on the offside of the vehicle damaging the radiator locating 
arm and part of the engine mounting arm making the car unsafe to drive; the radiator was 
insecure, and the radiator fan was misaligned; the front bumper had been gouged by 
striking something and this extended back to where the fuel pipes were damaged and 
scuffed in front of the fuel tank; the fuel pipes were rubbing and chaffing, held together 
with cable ties and the offside front door and wing were damaged.
Due to the condition of the car, the engineer said it wasnt possible for them to test the 
clutch. The independent engineer also said that they thought the faults would have been 
present at the point of sale, due to the limited amount of time Mr N had had the car and 
low number of miles hed driven.
MotoNovo contacted the supplying dealership for their comments on the independent 
report. The dealership disputed that the car had had any impact damage when acquired 
by Mr N. It said the car had been thoroughly checked, and that it had carried out repairs 
on the clutch and other parts prior to the independent engineers inspection. It also said 
that the oil leak, that had been noted could have been the residue from a previous leak 
which hadnt been cleaned off fully. The dealership said that no impact damage had been 
raised by Mr N when he had brought the car back in to it for repairs.
MotoNovo went back to the independent engineer and asked about the impact damage 
found. The engineer confirmed that the car could have been driven for a few thousand 
miles with the damage that had been found, though the cars condition would have 
deteriorated. They said in their opinion it was the impact which had caused the damage 
found to the radiator, the front bumper, the gouging around the fuel pipes and the 
nearside front wing and door.
Mr N reported to MotoNovo that the cars paintwork had been damaged in an act 
of vandalism, which he had reported to the police.
MotoNovo reviewed Mr Ns complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it couldnt support 
rejection of the vehicle based on failed repairs to the clutch as it hadnt been possible to 
confirm whether this was the case since the car wasnt safe to drive. It said that if Mr N 
had the impact damage repaired then it would look again at whether the clutch repairs 
hadnt been successful.
Mr N was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
thought the car had sustained impact damage after Mr N had acquired it, and that until 
this was repaired it wasnt possible for MotoNovo to investigate the issue with the clutch. 
He said he thought MotoNovos offer to reinvestigate after the impact damage had been 
repaired was fair.
Mr N disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the damage to the wing and door 
of the car wasnt obvious and he produced photos which he says corroborates that. Mr N 
says he thinks that the damage to the radiator could be causing the judder hed 
complained of, rather than an issue with the clutch. Mr N says the car was sold to him in 
an unsafe condition and, looking back at the MOT history, it appeared that the car had 
been off the road for 10 months which he thought may have been due to having the impact 
damage repaired. He says he should be able to reject the car.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances.The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around seven years old and with a mileage of 90,700. 
I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have 
expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car 
would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there 
wouldnt have been an expectation that the car was fault free.
The issue for me to decide was what was the condition of the car at the time it was 
acquired by Mr N. Mr N had said that the impact damage, reported by the independent 
engineer, was already present at the point of sale. The supplying dealer and MotoNovo 
had said that wasnt the case and the damage had occurred subsequently. Mr N said it 
was for the MotoNovo to prove the car hadnt had the impact damage found by the 
independent engineer from the point of  sale.
What didnt appear to be disputed was that the scratches to the cars paintwork were due 
to an act of vandalism, and this had happened after it had been independently inspected 
by the engineer. I didnt think this damage had any impact on the findings of the 
independent engineer, as it involved only the cars paintwork. Id seen Mr N had been 
suspicious that the dealership might have been involved in this incident, but I didnt have 
any evidence that would suggest that, so I was going to put this incident to one side. 
Although this damage wasnt Mr Ns fault unfortunately it will be for him to sort out any 
necessary repairs.
Mr N had noticed within a very short period of time that the car was not driving as hed 
expected, and Id seen that about one week after acquiring the car an estimate had been 
provided to Mr N from a local garage. This estimate set out a number of issues that had 
been found though it did not list their cause. Issues with an oil leak, missing trays, the fuel 
pipes, a knocking sound on the drivers side CV joint and flywheel judder were all noted. It 
was unclear from the estimate whether the garage had conducted a visual only inspection 
and/or a test drive when making those findings
The supplying dealer had agreed to look at the car and had provided an invoice for the 
work it carried out. An oil leak was repaired, a new flywheel and clutch were fitted, the 
offside CV joint was replaced as were the offside and nearside bushes. Mr N had also 
raised a possible issue with the timing belt and the fuel lines. These were both examined 
and tested, but no faults were found.  
Mr N said the car was at the dealership for around three weeks but when he collected it 
the issues with car juddering had been still present. He had taken the car back to his local 
garage for a second time and an invoice was prepared from their second inspection. 
This was confirmed as a visual check and a number of issues had again been listed, 
some the same as the first inspection such as the oil leak and fuel pipes and some which 
had been new, such as the lower gearbox engine bolt being snapped.
However, Id seen that neither of the inspections by Mr Ns local garage mentioned impact 
damage or the extensive damage to the radiator including its mounting being smashed 
and it being insecure, and the fan misaligned. Nor was it raised that there was damage to 
the front bumper, the offside wing and front door. All of which were found during the 
independent engineers visual inspection. I thought it was reasonable for me to say that 
this was surprising given that the local garage appeared to have examined the car in detail as it had noted a number of faults it had found with the car and so appeared to have 
thoroughly examined the car.
Id also seen that when the dealership had the car in for repairs, they had put the car 
on the ramp and so would have been able to assess the car in more detail than the 
independent engineer had.
Mr N said it was for MotoNovo to show that the impact damage hadnt been present at the 
point of sale. He said it hadnt been able to do so as the independent engineers report 
had said that the damage would have been present when hed acquired the car. However, 
Id seen that MotoNovo had challenged the conclusion of the independent engineer as it 
didnt think it was a fair assumption to have made if based solely on how long Mr N had 
had the car for.
The independent engineer didnt say whether in their opinion the damage had been 
historic in nature. They had said that although the car was unsafe to drive when they had 
examined it, the car would have been usable for a period of time after the impact. So, I 
thought it was fair to say the car was drivable after the impact. Mr N had suggested that 
the impact damage could have occurred between 2016 and 2017 due to the gap in MOTs, 
but I didnt think that was likely. If the impact damage had been that old, then I thought it 
was more likely than not that the independent engineer would have noted that in their 
findings.
There appeared to have been some confusion as to the number of miles driven by Mr N 
as the hire purchase agreement said the cars mileage was 89,000 meaning he had 
driven around 3,700 miles in the two months he had had the car. But the cars last MOT 
was undertaken in December 2018 when the mileage had been recorded as 90,700. Id 
also seen that when Mr N had contacted MotoNovo, he confirmed the mileage was 
90,700 at the point of sale. So, I thought Mr N had actually driven around 2,000 miles in 
the two months he had the car.
Mr N had supplied photos of the car as had the independent engineer. Mr N said that 
there was damage visible to the cars bodywork. Looking at these photos, Id seen there 
was obvious damage to the cars front bumper in the independent engineers photos but 
in Mr Ns photos the bumper isnt shown as clearly. I appreciated the dent to the offside 
wing and door wasnt clear, but I thought that was due to the angle of the photo rather 
than this damage not being necessarily visible. And while the damage might not have 
been clear to Mr N, I was surprised that a garage assessing the car on his behalf hadnt 
picked it up, particularly as they had inspected the car on two occasions on his behalf.
So, looking at the substantial impact damage that was recorded by the independent 
engineer I thought that had this damage been present when Mr Ns local garage 
inspected the car, it would have seen it and reported on it. Particularly as the damage to 
the radiator was significant and had left the car unsafe to drive. I thought the evidence Id 
seen supported that it was  more likely than not that the impact damage occurred after 
Mr N had acquired the car and hadnt been present before.
However, I accepted from the evidence that prior to the damage from the impact, the car 
had had other issues at the point sale. There had been issues identified with the fuel 
lines, missing undertrays, an oil leak and as well as faults with the clutch and flywheel.
The independent engineer reported that the fuel lines had been secured with clips but had 
also confirmed that these were parts that would have been looked at as part of the cars 
MOT in December 2018. From the mileage it appeared the car was either not driven or 
only minimally driven between that MOT and the point of sale to Mr N. The independent engineer said that the fuel lines being secured in this manner wouldnt have been 
considered as an MOT fail or as an advisory. So, I couldnt reaonably say that the manner 
in which the fuel lines had been secured made the car unsafe or faulty.
Mr Ns local garage had reported that the fuel lines were fouling in both of its inspections, 
but the dealership said it had tested the fuel lines and found no faults. The local garage 
hadnt provided any details of what was causing the fouling. The independent engineer 
had found that it was the impact that had caused gouging around the fuel pipes. Looking 
at the evidence, I didnt think I had enough to say that there was an issue with the fuel 
pipes that meant the car had been faulty at the point of sale.
In respect of the missing undertrays, these could have been lost due to wear and tear 
and although they are considered beneficial, they werent essential. So, I couldnt say that 
the car wasnt fit for purpose because they hadnt been present. Considering the age and 
mileage of the car I thought this was a part that a reasonable person would reasonably 
have expected might need maintenance. The car had also passed its MOT in December 
2018 and been found roadworthy.
Id seen that an off-side oil leak had been raised by both of the local garages inspections 
of Mr Ns car. Id also seen that the dealership had diagnosed an oil leak and said it had 
been fixed. The independent engineer said they had found a severe oil leak but werent 
able to say where it was coming from. I didnt think I could reasonably rule out that the oil 
leak hadnt been linked to the impact damage the car had sustained. It was also possible 
that this oil leak was new and not linked to the previous repair. So, I didnt think I had 
enough evidence to say the car had a severe oil leak that the dealership had attempted to 
fix but failed.
Mr N had complained about the cars clutch. This was also reported in both of the local 
garages inspections. Mr N had said that it was possible the issue with the car juddering 
was due to the damage to the radiator. But as set out above, the damage to the radiator 
was more likely than not due to the impact that the car had been involved in. And as I 
thought the impact occurred after Mr N acquired the car then I thought the juddering he 
had experienced shortly after the point of sale was likely to be from the clutch. I thought 
this meant that the car had a fault with the clutch at the point of sale and this also meant it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
However, Id seen that the dealership had replaced both the clutch and the flywheel, and 
that Mr N had agreed to those repairs. If the repair had been successful, then it would be 
unfair for Mr N to reject the car on the grounds of the fault with the clutch. But, it wass 
possible that the repair to the clutch hadnt been successful as Mr N said the car had 
continued to judder. Id seen that the independent engineer hadnt been able to test drive 
the car or inspect it, so at this time, I couldnt say the clutch was the cause and the repair 
had failed. In absence of evidence to the contrary, I thought the repair to the clutch had 
been successful and so this fault had been dealt with.
I appreciated my conclusions would be of disappointment to Mr N, but on the evidence 
that I had seen I thought it was reasonable to conclude the following:
Due to a fault with the clutch the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
The faulty clutch had been successfully repaired by the supplying 
dealership with Mr Ns agreement.
That the car subsequently received impact damage after Mr N had taken 
possession of it and as a result the car was not now safe to use.I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint. I thought MotoNovos offer to re-investigate the 
quality of the car after the impact damage had been fixed was fair and I wasnt going to 
ask it to do more.
Mr N disagrees with my provisional view. He has supplied some further photos of the car 
which he says were taken when hed gone to view it before purchasing it and that these 
show its condition before hed acquired it. Mr N also says that damage to the front 
bumper can be seen though he says he didnt noticed it at the time due to its position. He 
says that the damage to the bumper proves that the impact had occurred before hed 
purchased the car. Mr N says the car hasnt changed in appearance from the point it was 
supplied to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the photos Mr N has supplied and also reviewed the evidence that had 
already been gathered and Im afraid I havent changed my view.
I appreciate the photos Mr N has now supplied show that the number plate was secured with 
zip tags and there is possibly a small split in the front bumper though I cant say thats very 
clear. However, the photo from the independent engineer which were taken at the time of 
their inspection, show significantly more damage to the front bumper area. And I cant see 
that same damage in Mr Ns pre-purchase photos. When comparing the two sets of photos 
of the front bumper, I think it would be reasonable to say that the car appears to have been 
involved in some type of impact between the time the car being supplied to Mr N and the 
time the independent engineer saw it. I cant say Mr Ns pre-purchase photos prove the 
impact damage was present before he acquired the car.
So, on reviewing all the evidence, Im still satisfied that it is more likely than not that the car 
received impact damage that caused it to be unsafe to use after Mr N had acquired the car
And as my view of when the car sustained the impact damage described by the independent 
engineer hasnt changed, I still think my other conclusions about the quality of the car and 
the clutch repair are fair on the evidence thats been provided.
I also still think that MotoNovos offer to reinvestigate whether that repair had been 
successful or not once the impact damage had been fixed was fair.
Im sorry Im disappointing Mr N, but for the reasons that are set out above Im not upholding 
his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman