The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute with the 
builders of their house. Their claim was accepted, and Aviva instructed solicitors to act on 
their behalf. 
Some months later, the solicitors informed Aviva that an offer of settlement had been made 
by the other side and as many of the issues with the property had been resolved, it wouldnt 
be proportionate to take the claim any further. Based on this advice, Aviva withdrew funding 
under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy and complained. They said:
1. Aviva didnt inform them that funding had been withdrawn. Theyd entered into
discussions with the builders under the impression they were still represented;
2. Aviva didnt check the legal advice from the solicitors to ensure it was accurate;
3. Aviva didnt inform them of their options going forward once funding under the policy
wasnt available;
4. They want Aviva to take responsibility for the solicitors it appointed.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs M want an apology and compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that Aviva isnt responsible for 
the solicitors actions and as much of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint arises from the solicitors 
conduct, they should direct their concerns to the solicitors. 
She explained that Aviva arent legal advisers, and will rely on the legal advice provided 
when considering cover under the policy. She was satisfied the solicitors had informed Mr 
and Mrs M that cover had been withdrawn and what their options were. She didnt think it 
was necessary for Aviva to also inform Mr and Mrs M of this. 
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They say that as they pay their premiums to Aviva, they are Avivas 
clients. And the solicitors are appointed by Aviva, so it should take responsibility for whats 
happened. 
DRN-1637769As our investigator hasnt been able to resolve things, the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would not hold Aviva responsible for the actions of a solicitor. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms 
comments that their policy is with Aviva and thats who they pay their premiums to. And I 
agree that Aviva are responsible for the policy itself. But that doesnt make Aviva responsible 
for how the solicitors conduct the legal case. 
Avivas role is to deal with the claim on the insurance policy and provide the insurance cover 
for the costs. Once the solicitors act for Mr and Mrs M, they would enter into a client/solicitor 
retainer. At that point, Mr and Mrs M would become clients of the solicitors. Solicitors have 
their own rules and regulations and complaints about them are considered through their own 
complaints procedures. 
If Mr and Mrs M have concerns over the way the solicitors handled their claim, theyd need 
to raise these with the solicitors directly and pursue it through their complaints procedure. Its 
not for me review the solicitors conduct. And I wouldnt hold Aviva responsible for it.
Withdrawing funding and options to go forward
The policy terms say: 
If, in the lawyer's opinion;
a.your claim is likely to be considered a waste of court time, or
b.the prospects of success are no longer in your favour, or
c.your claim has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not 
be reasonable
then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it.
Terms like this are common and I wouldnt expect an insurer to continue funding a claim 
where its unlikely to be successful or the costs are such that it wouldnt be reasonable to 
continue.   
The solicitors contacted Aviva on 7 January 2019 to say they no longer considered the claim 
to be proportionate to pursue. As this is a requirement of cover under the policy, Aviva 
informed the solicitors on 8 January 2019 that funding was withdrawn. I understand the 
solicitors didnt pass that information on to Mr and Mrs M until 22 January 2019. 
Im satisfied Aviva made a policy decision within a reasonable time. It responded to the 
solicitors within one working day confirming that the policy funding was withdrawn. Its 
disappointing to see the solicitors took some time to communicate this to Mr and Mrs M. But 
as Ive explained above, I wont be holding Aviva responsible for their actions. 
Mr and Mrs M say the solicitors should have given them their options available going 
forward. Theyve referred to the policy terms and conditions which say that where cover is 
not being continued, the lawyer will tell you what options would be available should you wish to continue. Please 
note that prospects of success may change throughout your claim as evidence is obtained 
and legal arguments develop.
I can see that the solicitors email to Mr and Mrs M on 22 January 2019 said: 
I am still willing to send that letter but we are unable to take your case any further forward if 
we do not get an acceptable response.
I think its clear there was an option available to Mr and Mrs M. but if there was any issue 
about this, it was for the solicitors to deal with.
Checking legal advice
Mr and Mrs M say Aviva failed to check the legal advice provided by the solicitors regarding 
proportionality. 
As our investigator has explained, Aviva doesnt have the legal expertise itself. The legal 
assessment of a claim is referred to the solicitors, which this is what the policy terms and 
conditions say it will do. Aviva are entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
If Mr and Mrs M disagree with the legal advice, the normal way to challenge it is for them to 
seek their own legal opinion. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman