DRN-3225642
The complaint
Ms M complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) gave 
her a credit card despite not being able to afford it.
What happened
Ms M opened a credit card with M&S in June 2006 and was given a credit limit of £6,000. 
M&S increased Ms Ms credit limit to £8,000 around February 2007.
In May 2007 Ms M told M&S she was experiencing financial difficulties. Ms M entered a debt 
management plan at the end of 2010.
Ms M made a complaint to M&S in August 2020, saying she felt M&S shouldnt have agreed 
the credit card. Ms M said her yearly part time wages were less than the credit limit she was 
given and this wasnt affordable.
M&S said it checked Ms Ms credit file and the information Ms M told it when it agreed the 
credit card and the subsequent limit increase. M&S didnt think it had done anything wrong 
by agreeing the credit card or increasing the limit.
Unhappy with this answer, Ms M brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Ms Ms complaint should be upheld in part.
The investigator thought M&S should have checked Ms Ms credit card statements prior to 
agreeing the credit limit increase. And if M&S had checked the statements it would have 
seen a lot of money being spent on gambling transactions.
The investigator thought M&S shouldnt have increased Ms Ms credit limit. To resolve things 
the investigator thought M&S should refund all charges and interest from February 2007, the 
likely date of the credit limit increase.
Ms M agreed with the investigators assessment. M&S didnt and asked for an ombudsman 
to decide things.
I disagreed with the investigator and issued a provisional decision, I thought M&S had 
carried out enough checks before agreeing to increase Ms Ms credit limit.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events Ms Ms complaining about are some considerable time ago, and there isnt 
much information available. Where information is incomplete or isnt available, I have to 
decide things on the balance of probabilities  what I think is more likely in the 
circumstances.
M&S doesnt have statements for Ms Ms credit card. Ms M has some statements, but 
they only cover a couple of months, around the time of the credit limit increase.
The statement for January 2007s spending shows Ms M was using her credit card to 
gamble. Ms M has said she had a gambling addiction at the time. The investigator 
thought, on balance, it was likely Ms M had used her credit card to gamble from the 
day it was open.
And because M&S should have seen this spending, increasing the credit card limit 
wasnt the fair thing to do.
I also think its more likely than not Ms M used her credit card to gamble, and spend a 
considerable amount each month. But I dont believe M&S should, necessarily, have 
been aware of this.
Theres now lots of rules, guidance and best practice around credit card lending and 
increases in credit limits. But all this guidance came into force several years after 
February 2007 and wasnt retrospective, so I cant consider it.
From what I can see, the only guidance around increases in credit limits, in February 
2007, comes from the Banking Code. The Banking Code says M&S should carry out 
two of four checks when considering a credit limit increase.
The four checks are:
The customers income and financial commitments.
How they have handled their finances in the past.
Information from credit reference agencies and, with the customers permission, 
others such as lenders, the customers employer and landlord.
Credit assessment techniques, such as credit scoring.
M&S says it checked Ms Ms credit file when it increased her credit limit. M&S says it 
also checked internal data. I think these two checks are in line with what the Banking 
Code required at the time.
Ms M hasnt said her credit file had adverse information at the time, this came later 
when she began to experience financial difficulties. And it looks like Ms M was 
keeping within her credit limit and making minimum payments to her credit card.
I can only see this for a couple of statements, the ones Ms M provided. I think, on 
balance, these statements are reflective of how Ms M maintained her credit card. So I 
think Ms M kept within the limit and made minimum payments from the date she opened 
her credit card.
This means Ms Ms internal data  how she handled her M&S credit card, and 
therefore her finances  showed she was running her credit card well. I also think its 
likely Ms Ms credit file didnt show any adverse information, in the run up to the limit 
increase.
M&S carried out the required two checks and the information it found is unlikely to 
have caused it concern. Because of this I dont think M&S needed to carry out 
further checks.Because I dont think further checks were needed, M&S wouldnt have needed to look 
in detail at how Ms M was using her credit card. And because of this, I dont think 
M&S would have seen the considerable amounts Ms M was spending on gambling 
transactions.
Ms M has said her yearly income was less than the increased credit limit. Had M&S 
carried out an income and expenditure check this may have become relevant. But 
M&S had no obligation to do this  it was one of the options available to M&S but 
wasnt required at the time because another two checks had been completed.
I have no doubt Ms M was gambling heavily and spending more than she wanted. 
Ms Ms testimony around her addiction is, I think, very truthful and open and it must 
have been a very difficult time for Ms M.
Im very sympathetic to Ms Ms circumstances at the time. But I have to impartially 
decide whether M&S carried out the required checks before increasing Ms Ms credit 
limit. I think it did, and so it follows M&S made a reasonable decision to increase Ms 
Ms credit limit.
The responses to my provisional decision
M&S didnt respond to my provisional decision. But M&S had already told the investigator it 
disagreed with the assessment.
Ms M disagreed with my provisional decision. I havent quoted Ms Ms response, but her 
main points were:
M&S never asked for proof of income
can we be sure M&S carried out the required credit file checks  is there proof of this
between the credit card being agreed and the credit limit increase Ms M applied and 
was accepted for further lending from other businesses. If M&S had checked it 
should have seen this and flagged a problem
thinking back, it may have been Ms M that asked for her M&S credit limit to be 
increased and this should have prompted more questions and investigation
M&S has said it doesnt have statements but this is untrue as it sent these to Ms M 
as part of a subject access request (SAR). If M&S hasnt been truthful here can we 
trust is about everything else its said
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M says M&S never asked for proof of income, and this is possible. As I said in my 
provisional decision the only obligation on M&S, at the time, was to carry out two of the four 
checks. 
Proof of income is one of those four checks, but I think its more likely another two checks 
were carried out. I dont believe M&S not asking for proof of income when it increased Ms 
Ms credit limit means it did the wrong thing.
I cant be sure M&S carried out the checks it did. These checks were carried out in 2007, I 
wouldnt expect M&S to still have proof of these checks. Where I cant be sure Ill consider things on the balance of probabilities. And, having done 
this, Im still persuaded M&S carried out credit checks, it was standard practice for 
businesses at the time, and it relates to the third point Ms M raises.
Ms M says further lending was agreed for her, and this should have prompted some 
questions for M&S. But I imagine these other lenders also looked on Ms Ms credit file. It 
appears nothing prompted these other lenders to decide Ms M was a poor credit risk.
It seems Ms M had a good credit rating, shed agreed relatively large limits with M&S and 
other lenders and it doesnt seem she was missing payments. This would indicate she could 
handle the lending she had and was handling her other finances well.
Ms M says she thinks it was her that asked for the credit limit increase. Consumers are 
allowed to request credit limit increases and Id expect M&S to carry out the same checks 
whether it was Ms M or M&S raising the limit.
I dont think Ms M asking for the limit increase should have meant M&S declined it. I think 
M&S would consider the increase in line with the checks it had to carry out at the time. And 
Im persuaded M&S carried those checks out.
Ms M says its not true M&S doesnt have statements, she has copies of them as part of the 
SAR she requested. Ms M has sent in the statements for the credit card from when it was 
opened to when the credit limit was increased.
Ive looked at these statements and it shows Ms M kept within her credit limit and made the 
required minimum payments to her card. I can see Ms M was using the credit card for 
gambling from the point the card was opened.
But, as I said in my provisional decision, I wouldnt expect M&S to look closely at Ms Ms 
spending if it had completed two of the four checks. And I believe M&S did complete these 
other checks.
And since Ms M ran her credit card well, within the limit and making at least the minimum 
payment each month, I think M&S would be comfortable with how she handled her finances.
Its unfortunate M&S didnt supply this service with the same statements it sent Ms M. But I 
dont think shows a wider problem with other information from M&S Ive considered.
And lots of what Ive considered is what Ms M has said or sent in, along with the rules 
around credit limit increases in place at the time.
Looking at these rules  M&S had to carry out two of four checks  Im persuaded, at the 
time, Ms M would have passed these checks. Ms M had, I think, a credit file that showed 
other lending, but other lending that had been maintained well.
And Ms M ran her M&S credit card well from the point she opened it to the credit limit 
increase. Ms M kept the card within her agreed borrowing limit and didnt miss any payments 
back to the card.
Since I think Ms M would have passed two of the four checks I dont think M&S made a 
mistake, at the time, in increasing Ms Ms credit limit.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman