DRN-3346465
The complaint
Mr H complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
transactions he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr H was an existing customer of Halifax. On 1 November 2019, there was an online credit 
card application in his name. It was approved, with a credit limit of £11,000. 
Over the next few days, balance transfers from credit cards with other banks were debited to 
the account. The total was £8,350.
On 2 December, a credit of £350 was made to the account from a bank account with another 
bank. These credits continued, initially for £350 every month, and then there were credits for 
smaller, varying amounts which look more like the minimum monthly payment.
In early March 2020, there were three payments to an energy company, totalling £40, and 
one payment to a home furnishings retailer for £32.
In spring 2020, Mr H and his wife split up. Mr H checked his credit file, and in July he found 
out that his wife had opened the Halifax account in his name. Mr H rang Halifax and 
changed his address and had a replacement card issued to him. But he didnt at that point 
report that he hadnt opened the account or made the balance transfers. 
On 8 February 2021, Mr H rang Halifax again. He said hed found out in May or June 2020 
that his ex-wife had opened the account without his knowledge. The adviser asked why he 
hadnt reported it at the time, and Mr H said it was because shed said shed pay it back. He 
also said that his ex-wife was still the mother of his children so he would try and help her. He 
said shed now done a few things and she hadnt kept her side of the bargain, so he now had 
no option but to report it as fraud. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In its final response, it said that it didnt have enough 
evidence to show that Mr H wasnt party to the account opening, and wasnt aware of the 
card. So it declined his claim for a refund. Halifax also explained that online applications 
were given careful consideration and were verified using an electronic identification process. 
It said that for existing customers, it compared information already held with the information 
on the new application. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that hed found out that his ex-
wife had put her email address and phone number, and an incorrect date of birth, on the 
application form. He said hed also been told that Halifax hadnt required  proof of 
identification because his mortgage details matched. As an outcome, Mr H wanted the 
balance transfer debts to be transferred to his ex-wife.
Mr H also told our investigator that the reason he hadnt told Halifax earlier was that he 
believed his ex-wife would repay the money. And he said that he thought that if he reported 
the account as fraudulent, his ex-wife would stop him from seeing their children. He said that 
until June 2020, his ex-wife had run all the familys finances. He gave her money which he 
thought was being used for household expenses. He also told the investigator that hed set 
up direct debits to the account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She recognised that when the account had 
been opened in September 2019, Mr and Mrs H had been living together, so Mrs H would 
have known Mr Hs information, and would have been able to use their homes IP address (a 
computer location identifier). She said she couldnt say that the account had been opened 
without Mr Hs knowledge. 
The investigator also said that although she appreciated the reasons why Mr H had  delayed 
reporting to Halifax that he hadnt opened the account or authorised the balance transfers, it 
would be unfair to say he shouldnt be held liable for the balance. She said Mr H might want 
to take legal advice, if he hadnt already done so, as the complaint was a family matter.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said that Halifax had explained this had happened because it had 
cross-referenced his details as an existing customer  but the application on the date of birth 
had been wrong, and also the email and phone number. He also said that the reason hed 
continued paying the minimum payment after finding out about the card was that his ex-wife 
had been using the children as a weapon, so hed had to go along with it and couldnt be 
penalised for doing so. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, as the balance transfers were 
here. The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in September 2019 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the transactions, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The 
regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under 
certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure.
The Halifax account was opened in November 2019 by Mr Hs then wife, in Mr Hs name. 
Whats not certain is whether she did so with or without Mr Hs knowledge and consent. Mr H 
says that the first he knew about it was in May or June 2020. There were credits to the 
account, but its not clear, at least for the first payments, who made these. So its difficult to 
say whether or not Mr H knew about the account from the outset. 
But in all the circumstances here, I think it was fair for Halifax to hold Mr H liable for the 
outstanding balance here. Thats because the person who opened the account would have 
required access to Mr Hs security information, and would have known enough about him to 
fill out the application. They also must have had access to the address to pick up monthly 
statements, cards and PINs, and any other correspondence. Mr H has told us that his wife 
took care of all their finances. But this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr H wasnt aware of 
his then wifes actions. Its equally possible that Mr H had given her unrestricted 
authorisation to act on his behalf in all financial matters and based on what hes said, I think 
thats whats more likely than not to have been the case here.
Mr H has said that he doesnt feel he should be penalised for having made payments to the 
account after finding out about it. I can see why he continued to make payments, not just 
because of what hes said about the marital dispute about children, but also, and importantly, to protect his credit score. It may help to explain that my decision here isnt based on the fact 
he made those credits to the account.
What I think is important though is that when Mr H says he first discovered that the account 
existed, his reaction wasnt to dispute the balance, or transactions. It was to allow the 
account to remain open for a considerable period of time before then disputing it. I realise 
that he says he did this to help his then wife. But equally, this strongly suggests that he was 
consenting for the account to stay open and to be administered in the same way that it was 
set up  that is, by and for his wife and in his name. In those circumstances I dont think its 
fair for Halifax to be held liable for these transactions.
I realise that a key area of concern for Mr H is that Halifax opened the account when the 
date of birth on the application form was different from his existing Halifax details. But it was 
only one digit wrong, and his then wife would have known the correct date of birth  so I 
think its likely that this was just a slip. But in any case I dont think it affects the outcome, 
because it doesnt prove whether or not Mr H knew or authorised his then wife to open the 
account. Similarly, it was his wifes email address and phone number which were used, but I 
wouldnt expect these details to have flagged a problem, because many people have more 
than one email address and phone number. 
While I understand why Mr H would have trusted his then wife with his finances as part of 
the family finances, I dont find it fair to hold Halifax responsible for any repercussions that 
arise from providing unrestricted access to a third party. I also find it reasonable to conclude 
that its likely Mr Hs then wife was authorised to act on his behalf more broadly when it 
came to financial matters. 
I recognise that Mr H will feel this isnt fair. But what Ive determined is only whether or not 
Halifax has acted fairly in holding Mr H liable for the payments here, given what Ive said 
above. Mr H is free to take his dispute with his ex-wife elsewhere, or raise it as a part of any 
legal proceedings that may be planned if he doesnt accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman