DRN-2445130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) havent met the full claim 
on their pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision, setting out what had happened on this complaint, and what 
I felt was the right outcome.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs Bs pet became ill. They took her to the vets and were told 
some diagnostic tests would be helpful. Before agreeing to these, Mr and Mrs B called RSA 
to check theyd be covered, and say they were told unless their pet was receiving treatment 
for a pre-existing condition they would be covered. So, they went ahead with the tests and 
submitted a claim.
RSA turned down the claim, explaining Mr and Mrs Bs pet showed signs of the respiratory 
condition in July 2014, which was before their policy started in March 2017. Unhappy with 
this Mr and Mrs B asked for a copy of the call recording where they were told they would be 
covered  and say when this took a long time they complained to RSA.
RSA said its vet spoke to Mr and Mrs Bs treating vet to fully understand what had 
happened. RSA say during the conversation it was agreed there were possibly two 
conditions present, one of which could be a respiratory condition, and another that would be 
a separate condition. Because of this, RSA says its vet suggested settling the claim on a 
50% basis to the treating vet, who agreed with this. RSA calculated this, minus the excess of 
£200, and sent it to Mr and Mrs B, along with a copy of the call recording theyd asked for.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this, so asked us to look into things. And they explained 
theyd paid the £200 excess to their vets but were deducted it again when RSA sent the 50% 
settlement of the claim. Mr and Mrs B also let us know that sadly the treatment for their pet 
didnt work, and she passed away.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and felt RSA should meet the whole 
claim. She felt the treating vet was clear in saying the current condition being claimed for 
isnt linked to any previous respiratory disease. And only agreed to the 50% settlement of the 
claim because RSA had already said it wouldnt pay anything. Our investigator agreed with 
RSA that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, but also felt RSA hadnt proven it 
was a pre-existing condition and had accepted it could be a new condition. Because of this, 
she felt RSA should meet the whole claim, minus the policy excess, and pay Mr and Mrs B 
8% interest on this amount from the date of the invoice where they paid the vets, to the date 
of settlement. In addition, she felt RSA should pay £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs B for 
the distress caused.
Mr and Mrs B agreed with this, but said theyd paid two excesses so wanted this considered. 
RSA didnt agree. It said on the phone call between its vet, and the treating vet, she agreed 
it was possibly two conditions, and it was very fair to settle the claim on a 50% basis. And 
there was no suggestion the treating vet only said the 50% settlement was fair because RSA 
werent paying anything at that point.
Because of these issues, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I think the 50% settlement 
offered by RSA is fair.
Ive listened to the call between RSAs vet, and the treating vet to get a good understanding 
of what was discussed, and just as importantly how it was discussed. Its been suggested 
the only reason the treating vet agreed to the 50% settlement is because RSAs vet wasnt 
prepared to do anything else or listen to what the treating vet had to say.
Having listened to the call, I cant agree thats how the phone call went. I did feel that RSAs 
vet had decided on what outcome theyd be planning to offer before the call  but I also felt 
the treating vet was given plenty of opportunity to disagree with the approach RSA were 
suggesting. I felt RSAs vet allowed the treating vet to speak, offer their opinions, and 
disagree if she wanted to. The treating vet didnt disagree with RSAs vet in terms of the 
outcome, accepted they couldnt know if the condition was linked to the previous respiratory 
issues and did say they thought RSA were being very fair.
All that said, the treating vet agreeing with the 50% settlement doesnt automatically mean 
thats the right answer if other evidence still suggested I should order RSA to meet the full 
claim. So, Ive looked at the other evidence.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs pet had a history of respiratory issues. And on the 
claim form when Mr and Mrs B took their pet to the vets they wrote coughing, sneezing, 
difficulty breathing which could comfortably be linked to respiratory issues. In addition, the 
treating vet has recorded the condition as rhinosinusitis which again could be considered 
linked to the previous respiratory history. And for the tests that were done, some of the 
results could be linked to respiratory issues.
In cases like this its unfortunately impossible to know exactly what condition Mr and Mrs Bs 
pet had. No further tests were carried out to determine the exact cause  meaning it could 
be a respiratory issue, or it could be something else. The treating vet has said she thought it 
was something else but because no further testing was done she couldnt confirm this.
Given the history of Mr and Mrs Bs pet, the information recorded on the claim form at this 
visit to the vets, and the information showing in the tests that were done  I think its 
reasonable to say this condition could have been linked to previous respiratory issues. This 
would mean itd be treated as a pre-existing condition, and no part of the claim would be 
covered. 
Taking all of this information into account, I dont think its appropriate to order RSA to meet 
the full claim. Theres not enough information to say that on this occasion, when Mr and 
Mrs Bs pet presented with conditions that could have been linked to the previous respiratory 
history (and testing was done to suggest it could be), it was an entirely new condition 
unrelated to any previous conditions. So, overall, I think the 50% offer by RSA is fair. Mr and Mrs B have said they paid two lots of excesses of £200  once to the vets and were 
deducted the figure again when RSA settled their claim on the 50% basis.
Because Im currently planning to say the 50% figure offered is fair, Mr and Mrs B owe the 
remaining amount of the claim to their vets. So, in effect, the £200 they paid to their vets is 
no longer a second excess but rather just going to pay off a portion of their vets bill.
RSA, when calculating the amount to pay Mr and Mrs B, said the total amount owed to the 
vets was £1,976.48. So, by taking half of this figure, £988.24, and then deducting the 
excess of £200, this came to £788.24. The policy says Mr and Mrs B would pay a £200 
excess on any claim  which is whats happened. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B have been 
charged their excess correctly by RSA.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept what I said. They explained the results of the scan showed the 
issues were likely to be neoplastic in nature and could try treatment for an inner ear 
infection. They add neither of these issues are respiratory in nature like RSA claim. Because 
of this, and Mrs Bs experience in such matters, they struggle to understand why the claim 
cant be met.
RSA didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain my role is to consider whether RSA have acted fairly in turning 
down the claim based on all the information they have  rather than determining the 
diagnosis myself.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the condition thats been presented. But I also 
cant ignore the information recorded on the forms for the initial visit. As Ive said above 
Mr and Mrs B wrote coughing, sneezing and difficulty breathing on the forms, and the vet 
wrote the condition as rhinosinusitis. And, as I said, some of the testing done does suggest 
the issues that happened could be linked to respiratory issues.
In addition, the treating vet accepted, without any significant argument, they couldnt rule out 
the issues were related to previous respiratory conditions. So, I cant say theres clear 
evidence to prove the only reasons for the issues experienced were for an inner ear infection 
as Mr and Mrs B have said  when the other evidence suggests its not that.
I genuinely sympathise with the situation Mr and Mrs B find themselves in  particularly 
because they called up to check theyd be covered before going ahead with the tests. But, 
taking into account all of the information provided, I cant reasonably say RSA is acting 
unfairly by offering 50% of the claim. So, because of this, I wont order them to pay the full 
claim.
 
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman