DRN-3278527
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as M has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Directors of M have complained on Ms behalf. 
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Zurich. M claimed on its policy after it 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Zurich turned down Ms claim. They said while the policy provided cover for business 
interruption due to a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the covered diseases. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, M brought its complaint to our service. It said Zurich had 
included an exclusion for communicable diseases at the renewal of the policy in 2020 which 
indicated that the previous policy provided cover. 
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
M asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ms business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Zurich have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ms claim. While Id like to reassure M that Ive considered its policy in its 
entirety, Ive focused my decision on the extension for disease to explain why the policy 
doesnt provide cover. 
The extension for disease says:
The insurance by this Section shall subject to all the Exclusions and Conditions 
of the Policy except in so far as they may be hereby expressly varied and the 
following Supplementary Conditions extend to include loss resulting from 
interruption of or interference with the Business carried on by the Insured at the 
Premises in consequence of
1 a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or      
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
The policy defines notifiable disease as food or drink poisoning or any of a specified 
list of diseases. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example, policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ms policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ms claim.
M said an exclusion for communicable diseases being added at renewal indicated that the 
policy in place at the time of the claim provided cover. However, an exclusion would only 
become relevant if there was a term in the policy that provided cover. And in this particular 
policy there isnt a term that provides cover for Ms claim. So Im afraid an exclusion being 
added to Ms new policy doesnt impact the outcome of its claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome that M was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Zurich to pay Ms claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman