DRN-1552088
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr L took out an URCA in February 2010 which incurred a monthly fee. Mr L says he chose 
to take out the URCA because Bank of Scotland told him he had to if he wanted to run an 
overdraft on his account. He says the URCA was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ls complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mr L disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr L was aware the URCA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in out taking the account.
Mr L had previously held a fee free account with an overdraft with Bank of Scotland. And I 
think its more likely than not that he knew that fee free accounts with overdrafts were 
available with Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial institutions as these were 
widely advertised at the time. So even if Bank of Scotland had said he had to take out an 
URCA to keep his overdraft, I think he would have queried this if he didnt want to pay a 
monthly fee for an account. And I think its more likely than not that he would have looked 
elsewhere and taken out an alternative fee free account with an overdraft.
So, I think Mr L was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt advise Mr L to take out the policy. Mr L says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of his needs or circumstances to show 
that Bank of Scotland did advise Mr L to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Mr L as though Bank of Scotland was saying the 
URCA was a good idea. But this is not the same as advising him or making a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Bank of Scotlands sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr L on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Mr L with enough information about the URCA 
to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, RAC 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover, mobile phone insurance, card protection, 
purchase protection and a wide range of discounts. And it offered better overdraft facilities 
including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know what Bank of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr L about the URCA. 
But, as Ive said above, I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve described the URCA to 
him at some length as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think the URCA would 
have been of interest to Mr L. 
I say this because the URCA cost him £12.50 per month. And I can see from his account 
records that he was running a substantial overdraft prior to the sale and continued to do so 
afterwards. The cost of the overdraft on the fee free account was £1 a day or up to £30 a 
month. The URCA offered him a fee free overdraft of up to £300 and I see that he stayed 
within this limit in the months that followed. So, I think its more likely than not that he 
immediately used and benefitted from the better overdraft facility, in effect covering his costs. 
I note Mr L says he had a car at the time of the sale, so I think the breakdown cover would 
have been of interest as a replacement for the cover he says he had. There were a list of 
other services and discounts available which he appears to have been eligible for and could 
have used. And he could have cancelled the account at any time, but he didnt.
So, in my view I think Mr L knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and 
he chose to do so. I think the URCA was of interest to him and there was no information that 
Mr L didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off taking it out. So, I 
dont think Mr L lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done wrong when 
it sold him the URCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman