DRN-4083631
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about handling of a claim he made on his Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limiteds legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Admiral include their claim handlers, except where I have expressed 
otherwise. 
What happened
Mr D had the benefit of an Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited legal expenses insurance 
policy, which he took out alongside his car insurance. 
In 2021 Mr D was involved in an incident. Following this he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy to help him recover losses that werent covered by his car 
insurance policy. Admiral appointed a panel firm to consider things and assist him in his 
claim in accordance with the terms of that policy.
The following year the panel firm told Mr D they werent prepared to act for him. They said 
he had used threatening and abusive language and terminated their retainer with him and 
that hed need to find someone else to act for him if he wanted to continue with his claim.
Mr D is unhappy that he hasnt been able to pursue his claim any further. Admiral say that 
they fulfilled their duty to Mr D by appointing the panel firm to act for him but that he should 
now contact his motor insurer to find out if theres more they can do to help him. They also 
acknowledged it took them too long to provide a response to his complaint and offered him 
£150 in compensation for this. In addition, Admiral have told this Service that theyre not 
responsible for the administration of Mr Ds legal expenses insurance policy.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said 
that Admiral were the underwriters of the legal expenses insurance policy and were 
therefore responsible for complaints about the cover that provided, whether or not that policy 
was administered by another claims handler. She also thought that Admiral should have 
provided Mr D with further representation after the panel firm declined to act for him. In this 
case she said that would be to give Mr D the option of considering his own solicitors 
reasonable costs. In addition, she recommended that Admiral pay Mr D £200 in respect of 
the trouble and upset caused to him in failing to move his claim forward since he first 
complained about it. 
Neither Admiral or Mr D agree with the investigators view. Mr D suggests the investigators 
view doesnt go far enough in compensating him for Admirals actions. Admiral have 
essentially repeated the points they made in response to Mr Ds original complaint to this 
Service, but they also say that they wouldnt provide any further representation to him as a 
result of the way in which he behaved with the panel firm. 
Because neither party agrees with the investigators view, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. They set out that Admiral is the underwriter of the 
policy. As such they are responsible for the claims made against the insurance as well as 
the administration of it. Whether they appoint claims handlers to do this on their behalf or do 
so themselves is a commercial decision for them but it doesnt affect the way in which this 
Service considers complaints against legal expenses insurers. They are ultimately 
responsible and as such weve considered Mr Ds complaint against them accordingly. 
The policy terms provide cover for Mr Ds uninsured losses not otherwise covered by his car 
insurance policy. Where cover is available, the terms allow for Admiral to instruct their own 
Solicitors to act for Mr D provided his claim has reasonable prospects of success. Admiral 
did this but problems arose when the panel firm terminated their retainer with Mr D.
I dont know what the nature of the communications were between Mr D and the panel firm 
save to say that Ive noted their reference to him using threatening and abusive language. 
Given what Admiral has said about not having access to the panel firms systems or 
procedures when asked by the investigator for details, I think its unlikely that they are aware 
of the specifics of these communications either. In the absence of that, I dont think its fair 
for them to conclude they wont offer any further representation to Mr D without properly 
investigating his complaint. In order to do so and reach a view about whether that was the 
right thing to do, Id have expected Admiral to properly investigate the nature of the 
communications that gave rise to the retainer being terminated and confirm that they had 
done so to this Service. I appreciate the panel firm are a distinct entity with their own 
regulator and complaints procedure, but they were instructed by Admiral to act for Mr B. As a 
consequence, I would expect Admiral to look into the specific nature of those 
communications in order to make an informed decision about whether they were so severe 
that they warranted no further cover being offered. Had they done so, and had the 
communications been as severe as cited by the panel firm, Admiral may well have been 
entitled to turn down cover in the way that they did.
In this case Ive seen nothing that persuades me that Admiral properly investigate Mr Ds 
complaint- nor that they made a reasoned decision not to offer further representation based 
on first hand evidence. Rather they relied on the panel firms response to Mr D directly in this 
regard. And given I dont know what Mr D was alleged to have said, I also cant say that 
Admiral are entitled to effectively stop providing cover under the policy.
I appreciate Admirals point that they only have one panel firm of Solicitors that act for them 
so they dont have any other firms they can approach. But I dont think that matters. In 
circumstances where theres been a breakdown in the relationship between a panel firm and 
a policyholder, wed expect a legal expenses insurer to consider funding an alternative 
representative. In this case Admiral havent done enough to persuade me that they shouldnt 
continue funding Mr Ds claim, so Id expect them to offer him cover for alternative 
representation on comparable terms to those of the panel firm. That means they should now 
offer him the benefit of his own Solicitor if they cant source one of their own. 
Admiral have said the actions of the panel firm are a matter for the Legal Ombudsman to 
consider. I agree with that. But where the panel firm might be acting as an agent of an 
insurer- for example by turning down cover and explaining no further representation is available under the policy- wed look at whether they were claims handling for the insurer. In 
this case the panel firm didnt tell Mr D that no cover was available. Rather they said that 
they werent prepared to act for him and that he would need to go elsewhere if he wanted to 
continue pursuing his claim. But Admiral didnt then correct the position by explaining that 
theyd investigate whether they would be prepared to fund any further representation by 
another firm. And for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Admiral properly investigated Mr 
D's complaint anyway. So, I think they should do something more to put things right. 
In addition to offering him alternative representation, I also think Admiral should compensate 
Mr D for their failure to move his claim to another firm of Solicitors when he asked them for 
help. It took Admiral 4 months to provide an answer to Mr Ds complaint during which his 
underlying claim appears to have stalled. I can see this caused him considerable distress 
given his circumstances. Mr D talks about having lost his home because he couldnt recover 
his uninsured losses which would have supplemented his income when he was unable to 
work after the incident. This would no doubt have compounded his frustration about his claim 
stalling so I agree with the investigator that Admiral should pay him £200 in compensation in 
addition to the £150 theyve already offered him in respect of the delay in dealing with his 
complaint. 
Finally, Admiral have said Mr D didnt make them aware that the panel firm had declined to 
act for him when he contacted them. Whilst that might be the case, he did give them enough 
information to investigate things because he told them he was unhappy with the progression 
of his claim. And although he might have told the panel firm he no longer wanted to pursue 
his claim a couple of months before, Mr Ds contact with Admiral directly was enough, in my 
view, to clarify that he did want to take his claim forward.
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Either appoint an alternative firm of Solicitors to help pursue his claim in accordance with 
the policy terms or appoint Mr Ds own choice of Solicitor and pay their reasonable costs 
as covered by the policy;
Pay Mr D £200 in addition to their offer of £150 in recognition of the distress caused by 
their failure to appoint another firm promptly.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and direct them to 
comply with my award of fair compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman