DRN-4426534
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) told him hed 
need to obtain financial advice to take the benefits from his personal pension plan in the way 
that he wanted to. He said this wasnt a legal requirement. 
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension plan with Prudential. He was over aged 55 so was legally 
entitled to take the benefits from his pension. 
In July 2023, Mr C asked Prudential how he could access his pension savings. Prudential 
issued a number of letters to Mr C. These showed his current fund value. And explained the 
ways he could access his pension savings. Mr Cs options were listed as follows:
You have three main options to choose from. The options are:
A regular income that is guaranteed to be paid for the rest of your life. This is known 
as an annuity.
A flexible income where you maintain control of your investment and have access to 
your money. This is known as income drawdown. 
Take some or all of your fund as a cash lump sum.
You can also consider a combination of these three options, or you can, of course, choose 
not to do anything yet.
After further information requests from Mr C, Prudential sent him information about his 
pension on 28 July 2023, 7 August 2023 and on 18 August 2023. The 18 August 2023 letters 
included transfer forms. 
Mr C told this service that he wanted to take 25% of his fund as tax-free cash. And then 
drawdown the rest up to tax limits until his fund ran out. Mr Cs personal pension plan 
couldnt be used to do this. Prudential said that in order to access its income drawdown 
product, Mr C would need to obtain financial advice.
Mr C said that Prudential put him in contact with a financial adviser. He said he was told that 
Prudential would take a percentage of his fund. And that the adviser would also charge a fee 
if he wanted to move into a Prudential income drawdown arrangement. Mr C said that he 
called Prudential and that it had confirmed that it wouldnt take anything out of his pension 
fund. 
Mr C was unhappy with the requirement to obtain financial advice, so he complained to 
Prudential. 
Prudential issued its final response to the complaint on 17 August 2023. It didnt think itd 
done anything wrong. It said that for the type of transaction Mr C wanted, its policy always 
required the involvement and guidance of a financial adviser. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
hed been put under considerable stress when trying to access his own money. And that 
hed urgently needed his funds. He felt Prudential didnt care.
Mr C transferred his pension to another provider on 12 September 2023.
Our investigator didnt think Prudential had done anything wrong. While she acknowledged 
that there was no legal requirement for financial advice to be required in Mr Cs 
circumstances, she felt it was reasonable for Prudentials policy to require it when writing 
new business. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Prudential had made it as difficult as 
possible to access his funds. He felt he should be able to access his own money when he 
wanted. He also felt hed spent a lot of time speaking to Prudential but getting nowhere. Mr 
C didnt think his requirements were complex. So didnt agree that he needed financial 
advice before he could access Prudentials income drawdown policy.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Prudential hasnt 
done anything wrong. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C. Ill explain the reasons for 
my decision.
Before I start, Id like to state that this decision doesnt address Mr Cs point about adviser 
charges. From what Ive seen, Mr C has yet to raise this point as a complaint with Prudential. 
Until and unless he does that, this service cant consider this point.
I first considered whether theres any legal requirement for financial advice here.
Is financial advice legally required before income drawdown can start?
Mr C said that financial advice isnt required in his situation. So he felt Prudential had acted 
incorrectly when it told him he needed to take financial advice before he could access 
income drawdown with it.
I agree with Mr C that there isnt a legal requirement for him to obtain financial advice in this 
case. However, that doesnt mean that Prudential did anything wrong when it adopted a 
policy of requiring consumers to take financial advice before allowing them to set up a new 
income drawdown policy. I say this because its Prudentials decision on how it runs its 
business. This means it has the right to require financial advice to have been given before it 
will set up a new income drawdown policy. 
I next considered if theres any evidence that Prudential treated Mr C incorrectly.
Did Prudential treat Mr C incorrectly?
Mr C felt that he should just be able to access his money in the way that he wanted. And that 
in not letting him set up an income drawdown policy so that he could take the actions he wanted to, Prudential had treated him unfairly.
We dont have the power to tell a business how it should treat its customers or how it 
develops its internal policy requirements. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Prudential told this service that because of the complex nature of its income drawdown 
product, it only accepts business for its Retirement Account on an advised basis. Mr C 
wouldve had to open a Retirement Account with Prudential in order to take his pension 
funds the way he wanted to, as he couldnt do that with his existing personal pension plan. 
Im satisfied that its understandable and reasonable for Prudential to have a process in 
place to ensure that consumers who want to embark on income drawdown better understand 
the impact of their intended actions. So, I cant say Prudential has acted unfairly in having 
the requirement for financial advice and for applying that requirement in this case.
I acknowledge that Mr C was extremely frustrated that he couldnt take his own money from 
his pension fund in the way he wanted. But Ive found no evidence that Prudential did 
anything wrong when it required him to meet its usual requirements for setting up an income 
drawdown policy. And Ive also seen no evidence that Prudential treated Mr C any differently 
to any of its other customers. 
Im sorry that Mr C was caused stress when trying to access his pension funds the way he 
wanted to. I hope hes been able to do what he wanted to after his transfer to his new 
provider. But Im satisfied that Prudential has acted fairly. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman