DRN-4521841
The complaint
Mr G complains that Financial Solutions Wales Ltd (FSW) unsuitably advised him to transfer
his pension benefits out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) in January 2018. The
proceeds of the transfer were invested within a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in
land used in conjunction with a family business which Mr G ran alongside his full-time 
employment. Specifically, he complains that:
He was prompted into giving reasons that would improve the case for transferring
his pension  hes subsequently said these included the purchase of land.
FSW didnt fully explain how the resulting SIPP would meet his needs in retirement,
or its costs.
The land rental payments have remained invested in the SIPPs bank account 
earning 0.01% interest with no explanation of how this would be used to generate an
income.
There was no discussion about what his employers new defined contribution (DC)
workplace pension would provide at retirement age.
He was rushed into making a decision against a deadline with limited meeting time.
FSW originally argued that the nature of the complaint precluded Mr G from being an eligible
complainant under the regulators Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 2.7.3R which governs the
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It said this was because Mr G wasnt acting 
wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession in bringing the 
complaint. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits.
One of these was a transfer to the PPF. The PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer
becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. This was
intended to provide benefits that were somewhere between the PPF and BSPS in value.
On 13 October 2017 the BSPS had quoted Mr G a transfer value of £374,992 (including the
value of his Additional Voluntary Contributions). This was said to incorporate a 5% reduction
due to underfunding in the scheme (which FSWs transfer analysis noted was 98% funded).
This was a lessening of the reduction than had applied to earlier transfer values.
In the schemes Time To Choose exercise, members were given the option of transferring
out of the BSPS to avoid their benefits going into the PPF, or the further option of
transferring to BSPS 2. Mr G was made aware that if he wanted to transfer out, he would
need to do so before 28 March 2018  because on that date it was expected to enter the
PPF assessment period.
Mr G has told this service that he didnt really want to pull out of the BSPS, and left it later
than other colleagues to consider doing so. He described a flood of people including senior
management leaving the scheme, and that made him more worried. He was sceptical of the
first two advising firms he met, and found that FSW was the most amenable. But to a certain
extent he felt he was stuck with FSW as he had run out of time to look elsewhere.
On 12 November 2017 FSW recorded meeting with Mr G and handing him its client
agreement, which he later signed on 20 December.
On 16 November Mr G completed a questionnaire including some brief fact-finding
information and asking about his attitude towards making a transfer and the subsequent
investment. His answers were then entered on to FSWs computer system on 26 November
and the following day FSW sent him an engagement letter. Between 27 November and 13
December 2017, FSW expanded the information it collected on its fact find:
Mr G and his wife were both age 38, employed, and in good health
They had two dependent children
Mrs G had her own defined benefit (DB) pension worth £182,000 from ongoing local
authority employment
Mr G had started to accrue a small DC pension (worth £9,000) when the BSPS
closed to future accrual
They ran a business alongside their employment, but reinvested any profit back into 
the business rather than taking an income
They would need £1,500 per month in retirement (in 2017 terms)
Their £320,000 main residence was subject to a £196,000 mortgage, and they owed
£19,500 on another loan
They held £100,000 of joint life assurance
They also owned the main share of the family business property where they lived, 
worth £700,000
They had a rental property worth £110,000  and £9,000 in an ISA
They were expecting inheritances of other property in future years totalling £600,000
Mr G has explained to this service that he was born into the family business  and the house 
he lives in (which he would never want to leave) was attached to his existing land via a 
restrictive clause. Despite this restriction meaning he had no ability to downsize to release 
the value of this land to support him and his wife in retirement, he recalls that the adviser told 
him the value of this asset improved the case for transferring from BSPS  because it would 
show he had the capacity to take risk.
The fact find expressed Mr Gs medium attitude to risk in terms of the typical spread of
assets (cash, bonds, property and shares) someone might invest in. But it went on to
suggest Mr Gs motivation was to use the resulting funds from a SIPP transfer to make
further investment in land. Mr G says land came up as an investment because he expressed 
his reluctance to invest in stocks and shares. Hed said the same to the previous firms hed 
met and they had explained he could invest in property. At around the same time he noticed 
the land near to his property coming up for sale. And he recalls FSW saying that investing in 
this manner would better support the case for transferring.
Mr G signed the fact find on 22 January 2018  the same day as FSW issued its suitability
report. This report recommended he transfer for the combined reasons of: greater flexibility
with the timing of income and available death benefits; capitalising on the recent highertransfer value; and securing the purchase of the land Mr G had found for sale. It was
supported by a transfer value analysis, which FSW carried out and documented on 13
December 2017, and a cash flow planning report which it generated on 8 January 2018.
The transfer was made shortly afterwards into a SIPP, of which Mr G acted as co-trustee.
The SIPPs purchase of the land was completed on 1 April 2018 at a cost of £345,000, with
£6,750 paid in stamp duty, and rent receivable from Mr Gs business (which had use of the 
land) of £2,850pa. At 37 acres this represented almost a 50% increase on Mr Gs existing 
land, although the business subsequent accounts suggest it had a comparatively modest 
impact on any profits.
In June 2021 Mr G raised the complaint set out above with FSW. Although FSW didnt agree
with most of Mr Gs complaint, it offered him compensation totalling £1,520 in respect of the
SIPP fees not being explained properly at the outset, and the upset that had caused. Mr G
didnt accept this offer and referred his complaint to our service.
When we contacted FSW for its file, it told us that it believed Mr G wasnt a consumer, which
it considered he would need to be in order to be an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.3R.
FSW referred to the High Courts judgment in R (on the application of Bluefin Insurance
Services) v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd [2014] EWHC 3413. It concluded from that
case that we needed to look at the circumstances of the complaint, and the underlying facts
which caused it, to consider whether Mr Gs complaint related to his trade, business, craft or
profession. That was because if Mr G was acting wholly or mainly for the purposes of his
trade, business, craft or profession, he didnt meet the definition of a consumer under the
regulators glossary to the above rules.
FSW explained that whilst the loss of benefits previously held in the final salary pension is a
personal loss for Mr G, previous ombudsman decisions have concluded that this alone is not
enough to say Mr G wouldnt be acting outside of his trade, business or profession. It 
considered the transactions were part of the objective to take over the premises being sold 
by a neighbouring property, which would allow [Mr G] to continue and enhance the profits 
within his existing trade as part of the family business. Its view was that the advice was 
primarily about facilitating [Mr Gs] objective of operating a business outside of his
needs for his BSPS benefits.
However, Mr G told our investigator that he considered his trade was the full-time job hed 
had for the last 25 years. He had gone to FSW for pension advice, not advice on how to 
invest in land  but this had resulted in FSW advising him to make this investment. In any 
event he was complaining about the advice to transfer from BSPS specifically, as this had 
itself caused him losses. He also considered his small family business was a joke as after 
the expenses it incurred it didnt make much, if any profit. Mr G also sought a legal opinion 
which argued that he was motivated to seek advice from FSW by an announcement that the 
BSPS was being restructured  and that formed the key part of the advice he received. The 
opinion argued that irrespective of the resulting investment, Mr G should have been advised 
to remain in the BSPS in any event.
I issued a Provisional Decision on this complaint on 22 November 2023. In summary, I 
concluded that Mr G was an eligible complainant, because he met the definition of a 
consumer. In short, this was because he had shown a weighting towards acting in a 
personal capacity when bringing the complaint, so that he was acting wholly or mainly 
outside his trade, business, craft or profession.
I wont repeat my reasoning in full here, because FSW has since responded saying its 
prepared to accept the Provisional Decision. However, I noted that:Mr G hadnt alleged that FSW advised, or failed to advise, him on the benefits that 
buying land would potentially bring from the perspective of his family business (nor 
did it give such advice). And he didnt express any concerns that the transfer has 
adversely impacted that business. 
The aim of investing in the land wasnt the original reason Mr G approached FSW: 
the precarious position of the BSPS was, and this was reflected in FSWs 
engagement letter. This other aim was added during the advice process, and was 
seen as a way of investing the fund; a step that was necessitated by having first 
transferred out of the scheme to avoid it falling into the PPF.
Although this business aim was subsequently elevated to one of Mr Gs main 
objectives, it was done from the point of view of Mr G seeking to avoid the 
investment-related uncertainty that he would largely only be exposed to by leaving 
the BSPS in the first place.
Mr G wished to buy the land in terms of its investment characteristics, rather than its 
potential to improve the finances of his business operation. And the tail was now 
wagging the dog as Mr G had agreed with a third party to buy the land  making it a 
priority in terms of the timing of the transfer. 
FSWs suitability report provided a disclaimer that it hadnt advised Mr G on the 
prospects for his family business. It was simply gathering information from him on his 
anticipated future income, as part of the financial circumstances it needed to take
into account when advising him as an individual.
FSW gave generic risk warnings about investing in land, and said that it hadnt 
undertaken due diligence on the particular property Mr G was buying.
 
I then proceeded to uphold the complaint on its merits. As FSW also indicated it would 
accept this outcome and proceed to loss assessment, Ill repeat my findings on the merits of 
the complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of FSW's actions here.
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically
relate to a DB pension transfer.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FSW should
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on contemporaneous
evidence that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests.
At the time this advice was given, a key starting point would have been the critical yield
calculated in FSWs transfer value analysis  and what that meant for the likelihood of Mr G
bettering the future income from the PPF, or BSPS 2, by transferring to a SIPP. This was 
based on transferring to a generic pension plan which had a reduction in yield due to 
product charges of 0%pa. The advisers charges on top of this were proposed to be about 
1.8% of the transfer value initially and 0.5% per year thereafter.
I note that Mr G cancelled the ongoing advice service, which was intended for a portfolio
proposition he ultimately didnt invest in (and as a result, this is likely what caused the rental
income his SIPP received not to be further invested). But as FSW explained at the time, it
would ordinarily recommend such a portfolio of broadly medium risk investments to mitigate
an overconcentration risk. In my experience such a portfolio was unlikely to have been
obtainable with annual charges lower than about 1%pa. Whilst the impact of the initial advice
charge for the length of time Mr G was going to invest was negligible, this does mean that
the following critical yields which FSW calculated should realistically have been about 1%
higher:
For BSPS itself For PPF
To age 65 3.27% 3.25%
To age 57 3.94% 4.31%
These figures were if Mr G took tax-free cash plus a reduced pension, and reflect that age
57 would be the new normal minimum pension age by the time he reached that point. So
they showed the range of critical yields if Mr G sought to retire somewhat earlier than age 65
 with the PPF providing more favourable early retirement reductions than the BSPS.
Although they werent calculated, in my experience the figures for BSPS 2 would have come
some way between the BSPS and PPF figures.
So, in order to viably transfer into investments appropriate to a medium attitude to risk and
have them reviewed on an ongoing basis I consider Mr G would need to have been looking
to make returns (before charges) of materially more than 4.25%pa  and up to a percent
more than that if he had firm plans to retire early. I say materially more, because there would
have been no point Mr G transferring and accepting all the investment risk instead of the
PPF or BSPS2, in order to stand still in relation to the benefits those schemes provided. He
would reasonably expect to achieve materially greater benefits.
Shortly before this advice was given (as of September 2017) the Financial Ombudsman
Service had still been publishing discount rates for use in loss assessments where 
complaints about past pension transfers were being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given, if Mr G went on to buy an annuity at retirement.
The relevant rate here for an investment term of 26 years to age 65 was 4.6%, and for an 18
year term to age 57 it was 4.4%. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had
also remained unchanged since 2014: the upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. FSW also assessed Mr G as
having a medium attitude to risk, which would have put him broadly in the area of achieving
the middle projection rate.All this means that, providing Mr G had a medium risk outlook  which Ill consider next  the
critical yield was potentially achievable for retirement at the normal retirement age of 65. But
Mr G would start to risk having a greater downside than a benefit of transferring, if he wanted
to retire at a significantly earlier age and buy an annuity.
The likelihood of Mr G retiring early, when that at the earliest could be in nearly 20 years
time, was somewhat uncertain in any event. FSWs data capture form actually said that
Mr and Mrs G expected to retire at 65. On the questionnaires he completed for FSW, he
didnt rate the availability of early retirement particularly highly. So, I think the outcome of this
complaint depends more on Mr Gs attitude to risk.
FSW assessed Mr G as having a medium attitude to risk using a psychometric questionnaire
which he completed. Broadly, on this form he agreed he was willing to take risks to get a
good return; it was necessary to take a high risk to get a high return; and he would accept
potential losses for long-term growth. The only statement he disagreed with was that he took
lower risks than the average person.
Further, Mr G said he was indifferent to being more concerned about losses than gains; to
having his returns guaranteed; to having financial uncertainty; or any preference to keep
money in a bank account. But he was also indifferent to taking risks being important to him,
or to investing a large proportion in a high-risk investment.
Mr G also said he had a reasonable knowledge of investments, having bought equity ISAs,
shares, gilts or corporate bonds and structured investment products before  and having
taken an active interest in them hed been comfortable with how they fluctuated in value. He
wanted to invest for more than ten years and could accept losses to the portfolio of between
10-25%, as he had other savings and investments which could meet his needs.
On balance, whilst this type of questionnaire is only as good as the weightings used, I can
see why FSW broadly accepted from these answers that Mr G was a medium risk investor. I
couldnt fairly conclude he was low risk given some of these answers. And I think Mr G did
have the capacity to take some risk even though the BSPS was a key part of his retirement
provision: he had membership of a new DC scheme with significant employer contributions
on an ongoing basis, and his wife had her own significant DB pension. Although I
understand Mr Gs point about their inability to downsize their existing property, I note they 
also owned a rental property and were expecting further inheritances.
Crucially however, Mr G gave FSW information separately to the answers on this
questionnaire which suggested he wasnt in fact comfortable with investing on the stock
market  something hed need to do to some extent to achieve the sorts of returns at around
the mid projection rate to make this sort of transfer viable. FSW recorded that Mr G was far
more confident with the sorts of returns he knew he could get from land, than investing in 
the stock market  which he saw as little different to the uncertainty he was already 
experiencing with his BSPS pension. Mr G seemed to prefer having a different problem of 
ending up with land in his SIPP that hed likely find harder to sell than if he owned individual 
shares or funds, because he was more confident in knowing how to go about disposing of 
the land if he needed to do so.
It looks to me that Mr G was potentially conflating the volatility of owning land, which he 
might have experienced as being low, with the risk that posed to his pension pot when that
was the sole investment in the portfolio. I do of course accept that FSW tried to caution him
against thinking in this way. But it was ultimately unsuccessful in persuading him that it was
better to invest across a range of assets, which I think would have been acceptable at his
recorded attitude to risk.Crucially in my view for this complaint, Mr Gs unwillingness to accept risks linked to the
stock market, because he viewed the land investment as lower risk, means that he wasnt on
any objective basis a medium risk investor in respect of making this pension transfer. I
appreciate that FSW carried out cashflow modelling showing how the income from the
transfer could be made to last for the rest of his life. However this was based on income
drawdown, which to my mind would also require a greater acceptance of risk than Mr G was
reasonably prepared to take. Indeed my view is that Mr G could ill afford to forego the
guarantees of BSPS 2 (or the PPF), if he wasnt prepared to take the risk of investing on the
stock market. And Im not persuaded that the critical yield to buy an annuity (which would
replicate the guarantees Mr G was giving) would have been achievable.
Ive considered what FSW recorded about Mr G saying he expected the land to appreciate in
value by 6%pa. Notably this would provide a sufficient return to achieve the critical yield,
before any rental income was even taken into account. So, was it reasonable for FSW to
accept that figure and proceed to give its advice on that basis?
Thats certainly what FSW told Mr G it had done at the time: it said, I have relied on the
information you provided concerning the prospective returns available from a purchase 
ofproperty in support of your existing business. And I have made no specific 
recommendation as regards the investment intoproperty. Without taking into 
consideration the wider regulatory rules that applied to FSWs advice, I can see how this
might lead to an argument that FSW at no point claimed to be the expert in making
such land investments and reasonably relied on Mr Gs greater level of knowledge and
experience in this field.
However the difficulty for FSW here is that I cant ignore the regulators rules which
prevented it from restricting the terms of its advice in this way. COBS 9.2.2R requires the
business to obtain the information necessary about its client to have a reasonable basis for
believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives, that the client is able to
bear any related investment risks and that he had the necessary experience and
knowledge to understand those risks. And those risks included foregoing the guarantees in
the DB scheme, which wasnt something Mr G had experience of before  they werent just
confined to the risks of investing in land.
It means that FSW couldnt just accept without question Mr Gs preference of making an
unregulated investment in land. If it didnt consider this to be suitable in Mr Gs
circumstances, it should have said so. And I think here there was an evident conflict
between Mr Gs experience and knowledge of investing in land, and his ability to bear
those risks in the context of foregoing the guarantees on a large part of his pension
provision. Notably, FSW recognised that conflict at the time which is why it cautioned Mr G
about the investment he was making.
COBS 2.1.2R also sets out that a business must not seek to exclude or restrict any duty or
liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system. So, FSW couldnt avoid that
obligation simply by informing Mr G in its suitability letter that it hadnt done due diligence
into the land he was proposing to buy, and that its recommendation excluded considerations
relevant to that.
That doesnt mean Im expecting FSW to have analysed the profitability of the land, and how
Mr Gs business was going to make use of that land  in such a way that it was then giving
Mr G the advice in a business capacity. As Ive already explained, Mr G never sought that
advice from FSW and it wasnt necessary for FSW to advise Mr G from the perspective of
his business. Im also not expecting an adviser trained in DB transfers and more mainstream
investments to have had detailed knowledge of the market for such land.What Im expecting FSW to have done is to point out the obvious pitfalls of making an
investment which was unregulated and illiquid, and would cause Mr G to be overexposed to
market sentiment in a single asset class. It would prove difficult to realise value from the land
in stages when cash was needed during retirement, with Mr Gs relatively low expectation of
a 2%pa rental return giving insufficient liquidity. FSW should have reiterated the objective
view that ought to be taken of this as a high-risk investment; rather than Mr Gs tendency to
view it as low risk, potentially from a past experience of low volatility. An adverse movement
or flattening out in land prices would have significantly affected the viability of the transfer.
I need to be mindful that FSW did say a lot of these things to Mr G, with one notable
exception: it didnt amend its recommendation that he should make the pension transfer. It
tailored its advice around his preference for a land investment, provided risk warnings
around his choice of investment, and emphasized that the wider portfolio it would ordinarily
recommend would better mitigate those risks. But it didnt advise Mr G against making the
pension transfer because he was unwilling to invest as it ordinarily recommended.
FSW needed to address Mr Gs choice of investment as part of the advice under COBS
9.2.2R, and as that investment represented a higher risk than he should reasonably have
been expected to take, my view is that it should firmly have advised him not to make this
transfer. I say this in particular as none of the other reasons given for transferring to a SIPP
at that particular time were in my view compelling.
As FSW acknowledged at the time, Mr G could wait until nearer the earliest age at which he
was permitted to draw benefits, which was just under 20 years away, before deciding to give
up defined benefits in favour of more flexible options. So I fail to follow why it dismissed the 
option of a transfer to BSPS 2, when this scheme would likely provide superior benefits to 
the PPF and, if the circumstances warranted, would still provide for an option to transfer out.
The likelihood of Mr G retiring early, when that would be in nearly 20 years time, was
somewhat uncertain in any event. FSWs data capture form actually said that Mr and Mrs G
expected to retire at 65. On the questionnaires he completed for FSW, he didnt rate the
availability of early retirement or providing potentially greater sums to dependants the most
highly. The BSPS 2 offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that could have 
been very valuable to his family in the event of his death. While the transfer value would no 
doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum on his death before retirement, it 
could also have been provided fairly cheaply via a life insurance policy from Mr Gs 
disposable income, without subjecting his retirement income to unnecessary risk.
The original driver for Mr G seeking this advice, as recorded at the time and borne out in his
testimony, was concerns about the future of the BSPS and the preference of having control
over the funds in light of that. He may have legitimately held concerns about how his
employer had handled his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was FSWs
role to objectively address those concerns, and BSPS 2 (which would itself be protected by
the PPF) would provide Mr G with a guaranteed income that was to a large degree insulated
from the solvency of his employer.
Mr G didnt have the risk tolerance to transfer to a SIPP and make a high risk investment in
land in order for such a transfer to pay off  because of the corresponding potential for
losses. I think he could ill afford to lose a significant part of his retirement provision  and
would have become as concerned about such a loss as he evidently was about investing in
the stock market at that time, should it have happened. I dont think FSW should have
accepted the premise that all of Mr and Mrs Gs retirement needs could be met by starting to 
draw an income from the family business rather than reinvesting into it in future: that was 
also a higher-risk source of income.FSW should have explained to Mr G that because all of his benefits were earned after 1997,
his pension increases would be protected and he would lose relatively little should even
BSPS 2 default into the PPF. He would even have potentially better benefits on early
retirement, as the critical yields show. So, transferring into BSPS 2 (protected if necessary
by the PPF) shouldnt have been as concerning as Mr G might have thought. And in my
view, it was FSWs role to advise him to do that as it was in his best interests.
Would Mr G have followed the suitable advice to transfer to BSPS 2?
Mr G has told us that he was concerned about the number of other colleagues transferring
out of the BSPS altogether. That was what prompted him to take this advice from FSW. But
at the same time, he was cautious about transferring. FSW was the third adviser hed met
and hed spent his time weighing up whether he should follow the herd. That, to me, doesnt
suggest he was determined to transfer. From what I gather, the previous two advisers had
recommended transfers but he hadnt been confident in their advice. With all the advisers he
met, he hadnt felt comfortable enough to invest through them in the stock market  which
Ive noted above hed have reasonably needed to do.
Despite Mr Gs comments on FSWs questionnaire that hed taken an interest in his past ISA
investment, I cant see that he had a keen enough interest in or the knowledge to be able to
manage a pension fund of this size without the ongoing input of an adviser. Indeed, that was
what FSWs ongoing fee was intended for. Mr G continued to have sufficient doubt in how a
balanced portfolio would work for him which led him to retreat to the comfort of an
investment he felt he could understand better.
Im not persuaded as a result that Mr Gs concerns about his employer, or preferences for
land investments over the stock market, would genuinely still have been driving this transfer
if FSW had reassured him that he would be doing the right thing by moving over to BSPS 2.
In my view Mr G has demonstrated in his testimony that he wasnt blindly following what
other colleagues were doing. He was reliant on advice, and because FSWs advice
remained to transfer, FSW fitted that advice around his preferred investment.
I think Mr G did have the attitude to and capacity to take some risk, but crucially not the risk
of placing all his SIPP in a single land investment, which is all he was prepared to do. And
Im satisfied in any event that this wasnt what had prompted Mr G to seek advice: his
concerns about the BSPS and PPF did, and FSW should have explained to him that these
werent substantially justified. It should have advised him not to transfer, and on balance Im
satisfied that Mr G would then have followed that advice  and moved to BSPS 2.
Both FSW and Mr G agreed with these findings in my Provisional Decision, but had 
comments to make on how redress should be calculated. Ill address those comments in the 
section below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for FSW to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would most likely
have opted to join BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
FSW must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
FSW should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copyof the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our Service upon completion of
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what FSW based the inputs into the
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and is far from having any concrete plans to do so (or be
able to do so) at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal
retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once FSW is notified that Mr G accepts my
Final Decision.
In my Provisional Decision I gave consideration to whether the redress FSW paid should 
include the lack of growth obtained on the rental income received by the SIPP, as this is also 
part of Mr Gs complaint. I initially said that by cancelling the ongoing advice service, Mr G 
effectively prevented FSW from investing those receipts for growth.
I also noted that the rent of £2,850pa paid by Mr Gs family business was only 0.8% of the 
value of the land, rather than the 2% Mr G believed at the time he could get. As Mr G 
controlled the land through his SIPP, I provisionally took the view that this return was within 
his control  and it appeared (without further explanation) that Mr G might have benefited, 
indirectly through his business, from a saving in rent.
I was originally minded to allow FSW to notionally assume that Mr Gs SIPP received rental 
income at 2%pa  and that this was then invested, after any SIPP charges payable, in line 
with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (reflecting the sorts of returns 
that could have been achieved if Mr G had taken ongoing advice).
However, Mr G responded to these comments following my Provisional Decision. His belief 
that the rental income would be 2% had been an estimate from limited knowledge. He made 
the reasonable point, which I now accept, that the rental value is worked out by a qualified 
RICS valuer for the SIPP  and he had no input into that valuation. 
Mr G also added that the reason for the cancellation of FSWs ongoing advice was because 
each year he would be paying £1,875 in ongoing advice charges plus £550 SIPP fees, 
leaving a total of £425 left from the yearly rental. From this, other incidental costs (which he 
doesnt feel FSW warned him sufficiently about) would also have been incurred, such as a 
two-yearly property valuation and rental agreements, resulting in no money left to invest.
I subsequently wrote to FSW agreeing with Mr G that it was problematic that FSWs ongoing 
fee was based on the whole value of the SIPP when most of this was tied up in land. FSW 
had already said it wasnt going to be responsible for Mr Gs choice of land as an 
investment, so I could see his point of view that the charge didn't represent good value for 
money for him. And without paying the charge, it wouldnt have been straightforward for 
Mr G to determine how to invest the rental income proceeds.
So in summary, I no longer consider it will be reasonable to assume, as part of redress, that 
any more rental income was received into the SIPP than was actually paid  or that any 
additional investment return should be added to that income. The actual amount sitting in the 
SIPP bank account  but with any personal contributions Mr G made into the SIPP that dont 
relate to the BSPS transfer or rental income stripped out of it  should be used as the value 
for the non-land part of Mr Gs SIPP. In response to my Provisional Decision, Mr G has asked how the land held in the SIPP 
should be valued. I provided the link to the FCAs guidance above. DISP App 4.5.6G(1a) 
says the following: 
where the investment is illiquid or unquoted but there is a realistic probability of receiving 
value from an asset, obtain the most recent historical valuation and, unless there is clear 
evidence that the value has otherwise materially changed, increase it in line with the 
consumer price index from the date of the historical valuation to the valuation date;
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, FSW should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest redress prudently is to use it to augment his SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts FSWs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
In line with DISP App 4, FSW may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax Mr G would otherwise pay on income from his pension during retirement.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Mr G has asked in response to my Provisional Decision whether this calculation will take into 
account the ongoing costs of managing and valuing the land. It will take into account costs 
incurred to date, as they will have reduced the valuation of the SIPP bank account. But in 
terms of the future, the FCA sets the assumption for future charges in the SIPP at 0.75%pa 
of its total value overall (plus an allowance for ongoing advice charges at 0.5%pa). Im not in 
a position to change this assumption, but I expect it will likely cover the costs Mr G mentions.
Im also aware that FSW has embarked on preliminary calculations and thinks it can 
demonstrate that Mr G has experienced a gain on his pension transfer. It isnt unusual for 
gains to be identified in these calculations at the moment, as the economic assumptions are 
currently favourable. However, a key part of FSWs calculation will be what value is used for 
the land owned by Mr Gs SIPP, and Im not aware that FSW has been in touch with Mr G to 
establish the most recent valuation  to which (unless there is clear evidence that the value 
has otherwise materially changed) an inflationary increase would then be added in line with 
DISP App 4.5.6G. 
Mr G mentions that there have been two-yearly valuations of the land carried out for rental 
purposes, several of which would have occurred since 2018. I dont know the results of 
these, but its obviously possible that the value of the land might have reduced which could 
materially affect the calculation which FSW believes will be a gain. So, prior to finalising its 
calculation FSW should contact Mr G (or the SIPP provider directly, with Mr Gs authority) to establish the latest valuation used for the land in the SIPP  and apply DISP App 4.5.6G to 
that valuation.
Finally, in view of the possibility that its calculation may result in a gain, FSW has also said 
its prepared to make a payment of £250 to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him by its advice, in acknowledgement of the concerns he raised. This amount sits in the 
range of awards we would typically make where we consider that a consumer has 
experienced more than a minimal amount of frustration and this has required a reasonable 
effort to sort out.
Allowing for the fact that if there is any financial loss this will be addressed through the rest 
of my award, I think FSW has made a fair and reasonable offer to additionally compensate 
Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused. As Mr G has said in response to the 
Provisional Decision (and whether or not he is found to have suffered a loss), he is still 
unable to turn the clock back and restore his benefits to BSPS 2. I wouldnt have awarded 
more than this amount, so Im confirming as part of this Final Decision that FSW should also 
pay this sum of £250 to Mr G.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Financial Solutions 
Wales Ltd to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, including 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience suffered, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts my Final Decision, the money award becomes binding on Financial 
Solutions Wales Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr 
G can accept my Final Decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my Final 
Decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman