DRN-3867747
The complaint
Miss C has complained Studio Retail Limited trading as Studio wont refund a payment she 
made to settle a catalogue account she says she didnt open. 
What happened
In December 2020 Studio entered into a catalogue account agreement with Miss C. Miss C 
has explained her ex-partner opened the account without her permission. She says he 
ordered goods using the catalogue account in December 2020 and January 2021. She says 
he made a payment towards the account. And Studio sent monthly statements to Miss C at 
her address. 
Miss C said she first found out about the account after seeing the statement sent by Studio 
in March 2021. She contacted Studio to say her ex-partner opened the account without her 
knowledge. Miss C says Studio wouldnt help because she knew the person who opened the 
account. 
Worried about the impact on her credit rating, Miss C decided to pay off the debt of £426.76 
in July 2021. She says she felt she had no choice and felt bullied into paying it. She says its 
affected her health and so she complained to Studio. 
Studio sent a final response to say it thought Miss C knew about the account and it also 
highlighted she paid it off. It didnt uphold her complaint, and Miss C brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into things and contacted Studio about the debt. He provided 
some further evidence that Miss C had submitted to see if it would change Studios position. 
Studio responded to say it accepted based on the evidence supplied that it appears Miss C 
was a victim of fraud by her ex-partner. But it said it wasnt convinced she knew nothing 
about the debt because:
The account was reported on Miss Cs credit file for four months before she 
contacted Studio.
Three statements were sent to her before she disputed the debt. 
11 parcels were dispatched to her name and address before she disputed the debt. 
She made a payment to clear the debt in July 2021 but took almost a year to 
complain. 
However, Studio agreed to remove the details of the debt from Miss Cs credit file. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. In summary, he said: 
The phone number and email address used to open the account didnt belong to 
Miss C. 
Miss C works full time and wasnt at home when the goods were delivered. 
Miss C said her ex-partner told her the catalogue account was his. 
Miss Cs ex-partner was being investigated by the police for controlling and coercive 
behaviour. 
He didnt think it was unusual Miss C had not checked her credit file for a few 
months, and it was only when she saw a statement in her name that she found out 
about the debt. 
Miss C had notified Studio in March 2021 the account had been opened fraudulently 
but no action was taken. 
A postcode provided in relation to one of the payments for the account matches the 
address where Miss Cs ex-partners parents live, and where he moved back to. 
Miss Cs ex-partner agreed in an email to Miss C he was responsible for the debt. 
Studio accepted in an email that Miss C was a victim of fraud. 
Studio agreed to remove details of the account from Miss Cs credit file. 
Our investigator recommended Studio refund Miss C the £426.76 shed paid to settle the 
account, together with interest. 
Studio didnt agree. It said it had not been contacted by the police. And it didnt think Miss C 
knew nothing about the account. It also said it thought Miss C was still in possession of the 
goods. Our investigator provided further evidence that Miss C had reported the matter to the 
police, but Studio didnt agree to the refund. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear about what Miss C has been through. It cant have been 
easy. And I want to thank her for taking the time to bring her complaint to our service. 
I also want to point out that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Studio asked Miss C to pay off a debt in relation to a credit agreement for running account 
credit. And our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Ive thought about the evidence submitted by the parties, and Ive weighed things up. 
On the one hand, I can understand Studios position that even if Miss C didnt set up the 
account herself, she ought to have known about it shortly afterwards because Studio posted 
goods to her, it added the account to her credit file, and it sent her statements. 
But on the other hand, Miss C has told us she didnt realise the account was on her credit 
file. The type of job she does meant she was working during the Covid-19 pandemic at the 
time at a workplace, so it was quite possible for her ex-partner to hide statements and 
deliveries from her. The email address and telephone number used on the application were 
not Miss Cs. Shes supplied evidence from another catalogue company accepting her 
details were used fraudulently to open an account. Shes supplied evidence she contacted 
the police and Action Fraud about what happened. Shes also given us evidence of an email 
her ex-partner sent her that indicated he accepted the debt was his. And a postcode linked 
to a payment made on the account was linked to her ex-partner. 
There are a few possibilities that might have given Studio a proper basis for pursuing Miss C 
for the debt:1. Miss C opened the account herself. 
2. Miss Cs ex-partner opened up the account on her behalf with her actual or apparent 
authority. 
Turning to the first option, Im not persuaded the most likely thing to have happened is that 
Miss C opened up the account herself. Miss C says she didnt open up the account. The 
telephone and email address used in the application were her ex-partners. She sounded 
credible when listening to the call she made to Studio to let it know the account wasnt hers. 
To my mind, she seemed genuinely surprised to hear the account was in her name. Shes 
referred the matter to the police and Action Fraud. And it looks like her ex-partner made 
payment towards the debt and has later acknowledged the debt in an email. I also find it 
likely her ex-partner would have known enough personal information about Miss C to pass 
the credit and ID checks Studio had in place. 
Studio seems to accept it may not have been Miss C that opened up the account and, on 
balance, I agree that it likely wasnt her. 
Ive thought about whether, on balance, Miss C gave her ex-partner actual or apparent 
authority for the account to be opened in her name. If she did, I think it likely a valid contract 
would be created, and Studio might have had some proper basis for seeking to recover the 
balance from her. 
Studio seems to be saying that by virtue of the fact it added the account to Miss Cs credit 
file, it sent statements to her home address, and posted goods addressed to her, she ought 
to have known about the account. Its implying shes given some sort of authority for it. I 
think it would often be the case that youd expect a consumer to raise the alarm very soon 
after being contacted about a debt they knew nothing about. But Im mindful that Miss C has 
offered a plausible explanation about why she didnt notice the debt sooner. She says she 
works full time, and her profession is such that she was out for most of the day  even during 
the Covid-19 pandemic at the time. This seems like a reasonable explanation. Shes also 
said her ex-partner was home full time. So its easy to see how the deliveries and letters may 
have been missed or concealed from her. Miss C did contact Studio about the debt as soon 
as she saw the March 2021 statement. 
I find Miss Cs version of events consistent and plausible. Shes offered credible testimony. 
On balance, in the very specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think she gave her 
ex-partner actual or apparent authority to open the account in her name. 
Studio has also highlighted there was some time in between Miss C initially notifying it of the 
fraud, and her raising a complaint. Its also indicated that by her paying off the debt shes 
acknowledged it was hers. But like our investigator pointed out, Miss C contacted Studio as 
soon as she says she found out about the debt. Thats what I would have expected. She 
explained she only paid off the debt because she was worried about the impact on her credit 
file. Which sounds reasonable. And she also says she only felt able to raise a complaint with 
Studio about the account after her ex-partner left her property and shed contacted the 
police. Miss C has said she was in an abusive relationship, and I can understand why she 
may not have felt able to raise her complaint sooner than she did. 
Miss C has responded to all of our investigators requests, and I think shes done everything 
she can to try to explain what happened. I appreciate the police havent contacted Studio, 
but I dont think thats very unusual. Miss C did reach out to the police officer dealing with her 
case who said she wasnt able to contact Studio on Miss Cs behalf, but she said she would 
liaise with it if necessary. Weve given the police officers email address to Studio, but I cant 
see theyve been contacted. All things considered I dont think Miss C opened the account herself. I dont think she knew 
about her ex-partners actions until she received the statement in March 2021. I also dont 
think she gave him any sort of authority to open up the account on her behalf. Miss C said 
she didnt benefit from any of the goods that were bought under the account. I accept Miss C 
may be entitled to make a claim for the money from her ex-partner. But shes told us hes not 
paid her despite promising to do so. And given what shes said about impact of the 
relationship on her health, I can understand why she doesnt want to keep contacting him. I 
also dont think this stops Miss C seeking redress for the sum she paid to Studio. Therefore, 
I agree with our investigator that the fairest thing to do would be to refund Miss C the 
payment she made to clear the debt, together with interest. 
Ive finally thought about Miss Cs complaint about how Studio have handled things. I agree 
it looks like Studio could have done more when she contacted it in March 2021. It refused to 
log the issue as fraud because Miss C knew the person who she said opened the account. 
While the call handler was empathetic, I think it would have been better had Studio raised a 
complaint at this point and looked into things further. It looks like it was always going to 
decline the complaint because Miss C knew the person that opened the account. Ive 
explained above why I dont agree with that answer. But Im also mindful that the main cause 
of the issue here is because of Miss Cs ex-partners actions. In all the circumstances, I think 
removing the debt from her credit file (as Studio has already offered), and a full refund of 
what Miss C paid together with interest is broadly a fair way to resolve things for the parties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Studio Retail Limited trading as 
Studio to pay Miss C £426.76. Interest* should be added to this amount at a rate of 8% per 
year simple, from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement. And to the 
extent its not done so already, Studio should remove record of the account from Miss Cs 
credit file. 
*If Studio considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman