DRN-2096797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were sold the policy when they took out a loan in 1999. The cost of the PPI got 
added onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. The policy 
covered Mr S, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss loan application offered them a choice about whether theyd like PPI or not. 
At that point, they didnt choose PPI. They later spoke to Nationwide on the phone. There 
isnt still a recording of the call, because of all the time thats passed. But according to the 
notes, Mr and Mrs S were offered additional products. It seems they chose PPI, but didnt 
agree to everything they were sold  which indicates they knew they had a choice. Their 
agreement then described the PPI as optional and set out its cost separately to that of the 
loan itself. And Mr and Mrs S signed the agreement to confirm their choices. Ive not seen 
any wider problems with Nationwides sales process from the time, nor any evidence which 
shows that Mr and Mrs S were misled or unfairly pressured into having PPI here. So I think 
its most likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware they had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that they chose to take it out at the time.
From what Ive seen of the sales process, this would have been a non-advised sale. Mr and 
Mrs Ss representatives feel this was an advised sale. But even if it was an advised sale, that 
would only mean that Nationwide needed to check the policy was right for Mr S  and from 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
covered him for much longer. It covered him for the full term of the loan and could be 
cancelled at any time without a penalty. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful in 
case something went wrong.
The cost of the policy was set out on the agreement  including the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium, and the total cost. So it wouldve been clear how much the PPI 
would cost Mr and Mrs S if they kept the policy for its full term. And given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mr S made a successful claim then Mr and Mrs S couldve got 
back quite a bit more than they paid for it. 
It is possible that Nationwide didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
as I said above, Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman