DRN-2835092
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to call in its 
overdraft and close its business account.
What happened
S is represented in this complaint by its sole director, Mr K. Ss account with NatWest has an 
overdraft limit of £2,500, and was subject to annual renewal. In 2019 NatWest decided not to 
renew the overdraft, and in September of that year it served a formal demand for the entire 
balance, which was then over £2,000. At the same time, it also served notice that it was 
going to close the account in 60 days.
Mr K asked for more time, and offered to enter a repayment plan of £50 a month, or 
alternatively a lump sum of £500. But NatWest maintained its position, so Mr K brought this 
complaint to our Service, on behalf of S. He explained that due to his health problems, he 
had had to reduce the amount of work he did, and also one of Ss customers had failed to 
pay the company a debt of £14,500. He had kept the business afloat by funding it with his 
own money, and he was willing to use his own money to fund the overdraft. He said the 
company had no significant debts of its own, and its largest debt was only to him.
NatWest said, in summary, that the company was essentially no longer trading, and it was 
not clear when (or if) this would change. S had been continually overdrawn, and had 
reduced its turnover since the last review. NatWest was not prepared to continue lending to 
a company that was in financial difficulty. The fact that Mr K was using his own money to 
support the business was not a point in the companys favour, because the company should 
be able to support itself. NatWest could not take into account payments from a third party, 
even if that third party was the companys director.
Our investigator accepted NatWests explanation. She tried to mediate a compromise with 
NatWest, but when this did not succeed she decided that the banks position was reasonable 
and so she did not uphold this complaint. She pointed out that an overdraft is repayable on 
demand, and that NatWest was entitled to close the account after giving the 60 days notice 
required by the accounts terms and conditions. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review this 
case. He argued that terminating the overdraft would put S in a worse financial position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made numerous points in support of this complaint. But my decision focuses on 
what I consider are the central issues, and Ive concentrated on dealing with the things that 
make a difference to my decision. Im sorry if this results in Mr K feeling that some 
outstanding issues have been unanswered. But our role is to try and resolve complaints 
informally, so we wont necessarily carry out a more detailed investigation than we need to in 
order to decide whats fair and reasonable. And we wont give a point by point response to 
every issue mentioned if this doesnt affect the overall outcome.
I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I will explain 
why.
As I have already said, the overdraft facility was not indefinite, but was to be reviewed 
annually. Unfortunately, in 2019 the outcome of the review was that the company no longer 
appeared to be able to service the overdraft. Mr K has pointed out that the overdraft limit 
was never exceeded, which is certainly true. But it still remains the case that the company 
could not afford to sustain itself solely with its own income, and that Mr Ks offer of 
repayment was an offer to use his own money rather than the companys money. (And at 
£50 a month, it would have taken him two years to repay the debt that was owing in 2019.) 
The director is not the same person as the company, and the business customer was the 
company, so NatWest had to consider Mr Ks money to be a third partys money. I therefore 
think it was reasonable of NatWest to conclude that it would not have been a responsible 
lending decision to renew the overdraft for another year. The company could not afford it.
NatWest agreed not to terminate the overdraft or close the account while this complaint was 
with our Service. By February 2021, Mr K had reduced the debt to about £275, which is a 
considerable improvement on the position in 2019. (If Mr K can manage to pay off the rest in 
time, then he can avoid the account being transferred to the banks recovery department, 
and the account might perhaps not be closed after all.) But this was only possible because 
NatWest had agreed to forbear from taking any action until this complaint was resolved  
under normal circumstances, it would never have permitted that.
Although an overdraft is indeed repayable on demand, I have also considered whether 
NatWest should have given S more time to consider its position before issuing a formal 
demand (which gave only ten days to repay the balance in full). That is because The 
Standards of Lending Practice: Business Customers states, in the section about customers 
in financial difficulty, paragraph 8, If a Firm is unable to support a turnaround plan, the 
customer should be notified of the reasons why and given a reasonable period of time to 
consider the options open to them. It is possible to argue that NatWest may have been too 
quick and did not give Mr K enough time to consider what to do. I can see why Mr K has 
made that point. But I think that problem is mitigated by NatWest having agreed to take no 
further action until this complaint was resolved. It is now more than a year and a half later. 
So I need make no finding about that point now. For the same reason, I need say no more 
about the notice to close the account, other than that this was done in accordance with the 
terms and conditions.
I have also considered the rest of what the Standards say about financial difficulty. But 
I dont think anything there required NatWest to continue the overdraft for as long as another 
year. In particular, I think that paragraphs 6 and 7 do not apply in this instance. Those 
require a lender to allow a customer the opportunity to turn around a business if it seems to 
the lender that there is a good chance of this succeeding, but I think that NatWest was 
entitled, on the information before it, to conclude that there was not. (I am reinforced in that 
view by the fact that the company does not appear to have improved its position since.)
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman