DRN-2944395
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the repossession of a rental property he owned, and which was 
mortgaged to TSB Bank plc. He believes that an agreement was reached with TSB in 
February 2020, and so the repossession shouldnt have gone ahead.
What happened
Due to arrears on the mortgage account TSB started legal action to repossess the property. 
A suspended possession order was granted by the courts in July 2018.
However, in October 2018 Mr D told TSB that the property was being sold and he didnt 
intend to make any more payment to the mortgage. Two months later it was confirmed that a 
sale had been agreed but couldnt go ahead until a term extension on the lease had been 
agreed. TSB put a hold on legal action on the account for three months.
The arrears on the account were cleared in February 2019, but began building again 
immediately as Mr D didnt make any further payments. Mr D confirmed to TSB in the middle 
of 2019 that he was still marketing the property and that he was trying to have the lease 
extended. It was confirmed in November 2019 that a sale had fallen through. The lease 
extension still hadnt been agreed. 
In December 2019 TSB wrote to Mr C. It stated the arrangement that the court had set in 
place to enable Mr D to keep the property had been broken. It asked him to contact it 
immediately to make an arrangement in order to avoid the property being repossessed. 
Mr D didnt contact TSB at that time, so it applied to the courts for a warrant to repossess the 
property. TSBs solicitors wrote to Mr D in January 2020 informing him that it had been 
instructed to enforce the possession order. It said that it would tell him what the possession 
date was in due course. It said that if he cleared the arrears in full, the possession would be 
cancelled. In addition, it was confirmed that TSB would consider alternative proposals to 
clear the arrears, and if he wanted to make such a proposal, he should contact it (the 
solicitors) and a free-phone number was supplied.  
Mr D called TSB twice on 18 February 2020. He didnt call the solicitors as he had been 
instructed to if he wanted to make a payment arrangement, but rather TSBs mortgage 
customer services. The notes of the first call detailed that Mr D informed the member of staff 
that he wanted to pay an amount equivalent to three monthly payments. He said this was 
because the property was sold and he wanted to give the purchasers further time. Mr Ds 
bank rejected the payment and he was directed to speak to the bank.
The note from the second call said that Mr D had called to make a payment. It commented 
that he had called earlier and that he was with litigation and was selling the property. The 
payment went through. There was no discussion about a payment arrangement.
The court issued the warrant on 20 February 2020 and TSBs solicitors wrote to Mr D telling 
him this had happened and that the repossession would happen on 9 March 2020. Mr D was 
also told that in order to cancel the repossession he needed to pay the arrears in full. Mr D 
was again given the telephone number to call at the solicitors office. Another letter was sent 
to the mortgaged address confirming the repossession and the date it would happen; this 
was in case the property was occupied.  In addition, attempts were made to speak to Mr D. 
Three messages were left. Mr D has told us that he didnt receive these calls as he was 
travelling.
The property was repossessed on 9 March 2020. 
A few days later Mr Ds solicitors contacted TSB about the property. It asked that the 
property be handed back to Mr D. This was because the lease extension had been agreed 
and Mr D wanted the opportunity to sell the property. TSB declined this request and 
confirmed that it would be selling the property in possession.
Mr D complained as he said that when he had telephoned TSB on 18 February 2020, he 
hadnt been aware of the pending repossession. He asked why the repossession had 
progressed when TSB knew that he wasnt in the UK, but he would be returning shortly. In 
addition, he believed that there had been an agreement in place. 
TSB responded to the complaint. It said that no agreement to stop the repossession had 
been made in the telephone calls of 18 February 2020. Mr D had called to make a payment, 
that hadnt been requested by TSB and didnt clear the arrears on the account. In relation to 
Mr D not knowing about the repossession, it said that it had called and left messages for him 
three times before the eviction happened, but Mr D didnt respond. TSB was satisfied that it 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr D wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and the payment history and resultant 
arrears. He was satisfied TSB hadnt behaved unreasonably by starting proceedings in 
January 2020 to have a warrant issued for possession. He considered TSB had allowed 
more than a reasonable amount of forbearance for Mr D to make appropriate arrangements 
or sell the property. Whilst Mr D had said that he believed there was an agreement between 
him and TSB made in early 2020 that meant the repossession wouldnt go ahead, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded the evidence showed this to be the case. In addition, he was 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for TSB to have declined to hand the property back to 
Mr D after the possession had occurred in order for him to attempt to sell the property again. 
The investigator didnt consider TSB had done anything wrong and didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he had never been told that 
TSB was taking action to have the possession order enforced. He said that had he been told 
this was the case when he called in February 2020, he would have paid off all the arrears at 
that time. He said that he did respond to TSBs letter of December 2019 asking him to 
contact it to avoid legal action. This was his call of February 2020.  Mr D confirmed that he 
hadnt received the messages that had been left for him as he had been travelling at the 
time.
Subsequently, Mr D said that him not being informed of the repossession was not the root 
cause of his issues with TSB. He said that it was why, when he made the offer in 
February 2020 to make a payment, he was not referred to the litigation department to seek 
confirmation that it was sufficient to stop the repossession. Mr D considered that had that 
happened, and the legal department hadnt been happy with the amount he was proposing 
to pay, he would have increased the offer to a level that would have stopped the 
repossession. Mr D asked that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman.Following reviewing the complaint, I asked TSB to make further attempts to trace call 
recordings of Mr Ds calls to it on 18 February 2020. It was unable to do so using Mr Ds 
mobile number. It believed this may have been because Mr D was calling from an overseas 
number, but Mr D had previously been asked to provide any overseas numbers he may have 
called from and had confirmed only his UK mobile number. TSB was also asked to confirm if 
its solicitors had any records of Mr D contacting it in 2019 or 2020. The solicitors were only 
able to trace one call from Mr D, which had happened in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a mortgagors responsibility to make each and every payment to a mortgage and if those 
payments are not made, there will always be a risk that the property will be repossessed. 
Prior to TSB applying for the warrant to take possession of Mr Ds property there were 
prolonged periods where he didnt make any payments to the mortgage. TSB provided Mr D 
with time to sell the property and I consider it was very accommodating in this respect. 
However, when it became clear that Mr Ds plan to sell the property werent going to come to 
fruition and he wasnt paying the mortgage as he was required to under the contract, TSB 
took action to repossess. This was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
TSB wrote to Mr D before it made the final decision about repossession to give him the 
opportunity to discuss an alternative option. While he has said he responded to this letter by 
calling it in February 2020, I am not persuaded this was a reasonable timescale for such a 
call. It asked in mid-December 2019 for him to call immediately. It was more than two 
months later that he actually called TSB. In addition, from the call notes, which I know Mr D 
disputes, it doesnt appear he asked to make an arrangement to deal with the arrears. Also, 
as the department he called wasnt able to make such an arrangement, if Mr D had asked to 
make a payment arrangement, he would have been told to speak to the legal team on the 
number it had given him in the previous month. He simply told the call handler that he 
wanted to make a payment. I am satisfied that it is most likely that no arrangement to 
prevent the repossession was discussed or agreed in that conversation. 
Mr D was made aware in January 2020 that he needed to clear all of the arrears or call 
TSBs solicitors (not TSB itself) to discuss an alternative option if he wanted to avoid the 
repossession. He didnt do either of those things. As such, I dont consider TSB was in 
wrong to use the warrant and take possession of the property and sell it. 
As for Mr Ds request for the property to be handed back after the repossession, again I 
dont think TSB was unreasonable to reject that request. Mr D wanted to extend the lease on 
the property and sell it. However, he had told TSB that is what he was doing throughout the 
18 months before the repossession and he had been unsuccessful. I dont think TSB was 
wrong to draw the situation to an end by selling the property itself.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
10 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman