DRN-1441961
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that text message alerts sent by Santander UK Plc are 
misleading. 
Mrs D is the company director and complains on behalf of T.
What happened
Mrs D raised a complaint with Santander, as she said she was getting text alerts on her 
business account that were giving her incorrect information. This has meant her business 
getting charged. 
Mrs D's main complaint is that the texts tell her she won't be charged, if she pays in money 
by a certain time - but she has still been incurring these charges. Santander agreed to pay 
some of these back, but she says this has been an ongoing issue. 
Mrs D raised a complaint with Santander, but it wasn't upheld. It said that direct debit 
payment requests regularly come through when there is insufficient funds in the account. It 
makes these payments to avoid Mrs D getting further charges, she's then required to pay a 
fee for this service - known as a 'paid fee'. The following day a text message is sent advising 
her to pay in funds to cover the overdraft the payment took her in to - and this stops her 
getting charged further. 
Mrs D didn't think the texts were clear enough. She said they imply by paying money in like 
they suggest, it  stops her incurring all of the charges - including the paid fee. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He said that 
the text message is to stop overdraft charges and Mrs D would still need to pay the paid fee. 
He also listened to a telephone call between Mrs D and a Santander advisor and she agreed 
within this call that it was her responsibility to monitor the account - and not rely solely on the 
text messaging service. 
Mrs D remained unhappy, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that Mrs D has, on occasion, not had enough money to meet 
payments leaving her business account. Santander has paid these and its often 
common practice for a bank to charge a paid fee. This can normally be found in the terms 
and conditions of the account. 
When Santander makes these payments, it is also taking Mrs D into an overdraft, which will 
attract charges. The text message Santander sends is to help prevent the overdraft charge, as this is sent 
the same day the charge will be applied. 
Mrs D has raised concerns over the wording of the text message, as she says that it 
indicates that all charges will be waived if a payment is made to bring the account in 
balance. But I don't agree that the wording is misleading. The text clearly states that it will 
prevent charges due to be applied, not ones already charged.  There is also no mentioned of 
the paid fee. 
From the information I received from both parties, I can see that the text messaging service 
has prevented Mrs D getting overdraft charges and this is the function its designed for. And 
I'm satisfied that the wording is clear in that it relates to possible overdraft charges. 
If Mrs D wants to prevent having to pay the additional paid fee in the future, she will need to 
make sure there are sufficient funds in the business account prior to a payment being 
presented. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman