DRN-3678788
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave to him 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr N to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ns.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ns employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ns employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In August 2017 Mr N approached IFM for advice. It met with him and asked him to complete 
a fact-find questionnaire, which he did. Amongst other things Mr N said:
He was almost 49 and married. His wife was the same age. They were both in good 
health and they had a 16 year old child.
Mr N and his wife were both working. Mr N earned around £32,500 a year and his 
wife around £12,000 a year. They had net earned income of around £3,000 each 
month with regular outgoings of around £1,300 a month.
They had a number of buy-to-let properties which, after costs, earned a net income of 
around £18,000 a year.
They owned their own home. 
They had mortgages with around £115,000 owing.
Mr N had £100,000 in savings.
He had joined his employer's recently set up defined contribution (DC) pension 
scheme. He and his employer were each contributing 6% of his salary towards that. 
He had a balanced attitude to risk.
Mr N wanted to retire between ages 55 to 60. He also ticked a box to say he didnt 
require his pension benefits within the next ten years. 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £326,678.
On 18 September 2017 the BSPS trustees provided Mr N with updated figures concerning 
his entitlement from the scheme including that its CETV had been revalued to £337,331. At 
that date (without allowing for indexation) his yearly pension entitlement was around 
£13,375.
IFM sent Mr N its suitability report setting out its recommendations and the reasons for those 
on 22 September 2017. It recommended that Mr N transfer his BSPS benefits to a named 
personal pension. Amongst other things IFM said that the results of a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) report were largely academic because Mr N didnt intend to buy an annuity when 
he retired. It said its analysis to date of the BSPS was that the yearly investment returns 
required to match the BSPS benefits (the critical yields) were typically around 8.0% at age 
65. It added that achieving that yearly return was probably an unrealistic expectation. 
It also said the reasons for its recommendation were:
Mr N required the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
he received from his pension fund in retirement to suit his circumstances, needs and 
tax position, as opposed to the pre-set income his DB scheme would provide.
He wanted to ensure he could retire when he chose and didnt want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or when it became the 
BSPS2.
He was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how he took benefits from his pension fund.
IFM said it would charge Mr N £4,750 for its advice and arranging the transfer. It would also 
charge him a fee of 0.4% of the funds value for providing ongoing financial advice. The 
named personal pension provider would also charge a fee of 0.4% of the fund value for its 
service. Mr N accepted IFMs advice the same day. 
On 4 October 2017 IFM submitted Mr Ns application to set up the named personal pension 
to its provider. In November 2017 IFM confirmed the named personal pension provider had 
completed the transfer. 
Mr N complained to IFM in December 2021 that its transfer advice wasnt suitable for him. 
IFM replied in March 2022. It didnt uphold his complaint. Amongst other things it said:
it couldn't locate a copy of the TVAS it would have completed at the time of its 
advice. It asked Mr N if he had kept a copy. 
When it gave the advice the BSPS2 was still a proposal only and its benefits were 
unknown. Also there was no guarantee it wouldn't go into the PPF at some point in 
the future. 
Mr N wanted control and flexibility of his pension. The freedom to achieve this 
outweighed the promise of a guaranteed pension in the future. 
The risk of his fund falling into the PPF, and the loss of future transfer options and 
the ability to retire early, were key motivations for Mr N. 
The improved death benefits from a personal pension were important to him.
He could only achieve his objectives by transferring from the BSPS.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. The Investigator didnt think IFMs 
advice was suitable for Mr N. The Investigator recommended that IFM should establish if 
Mr N had suffered a loss and pay compensation, including £250 to address his distress and 
inconvenience. IFM didnt respond to our Investigators complaint assessment so the matter was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons our Investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ns best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
IFMs documents and advice process
At the time IFM gave Mr N advice the regulator required it to carry out a TVAS report. But if 
IFM ever obtained such a report it no longer has a copy. 
The TVAS should have set out the growth rates required (the critical yields) for an alternative 
pension arrangement to match the benefits from the DB scheme. And given Mr N had 
expressed an interest in potentially retiring early I would have expected the TVAS to have 
shown the critical yield at Mr Ns normal retirement age and also his preferred early 
retirement age. Similarly, given that there was a possibility that the DB scheme would move 
into the PPF I would have expected the TVAS to show the relevant critical yields to match the benefits from the PPF. I would also have expected it to show Mr Ns entitlement from the 
DB scheme, and the PPF, revalued to his likely dates of retirement.
I find it extremely unlikely that IFM produced a TVAS which showed all those things. In fact 
it's not clear that IFM obtained a TVAS at all. Its suitability report doesn't set out at any point 
an actual critical yield figure for either the BSPS or the PPF. It does give an estimated critical 
yield of 8% which is based on its analysis of other cases. But, if it had obtained a TVAS, as 
the regulator required, then I would have expected it to quote the actual critical yields. But it 
didnt do so. 
Ive noted that IFM said that the critical yield figures were largely academic as Mr N didnt 
wish to buy an annuity. But a key reason for producing a TVAS is it shows the value of the 
benefits being given up in order to transfer. But IFM didnt present those figures to Mr N. I 
think that was a significant omission. 
Further, IFM recognised in its suitability report that Mr N didnt have the option to remain in 
the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. So 
the BSPS figures weren't a realistic comparison.
At the time IFM produced its suitability report the BSPS2 was still some way from being 
finalised. But, some months earlier, in May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the 
RAA had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Mr Ns employer agreed to set up and 
sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
The Pensions Regulator approved the RAA on 11 August 2017.
Subsequently, on 28 August 2017, in the same week IFM asked Mr N to complete a fact-find 
and around three weeks before IFM produced its suitability report, the BSPS trustees 
provided scheme members with an important update. They said the members employer had 
made an expected payment into the BSPS of £550 million, as part of its agreement with 
The Pension Regulator and that was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. 
And for those with unexpired transfer values, like Mr N, administrators would issue updated 
valuations which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. 
The confirmation that Mr Ns employer had made the payment referred to was announced on 
11 September 2017. On 18 September 2017 the scheme administrators sent Mr N his 
updated CETV.
Four days later, on 22 September 2017, IFM noted in its suitability report that it was 
expecting the BSPS2s full details to be announced shortly. But, save for saying that the 
benefits from the BSPS2 would inevitably be inferior to the current scheme and will not 
provide the same flexibility as a personal pension, IFM didnt provide any further advice or 
guidance in terms of what this might mean for Mr N. And in order to ensure he had all the 
information he needed in order to make an informed decision before transferring, I think it 
should have done that.
Soon after, on 27 September 2017, the scheme trustees provided a further update to 
members. They said that, in October 2017, they would be sending out options packs, with 
information about the BSPS2, to give members the material they would need in order to 
make the right choice for them.
So its evident that, while IFM wouldn't have been aware of the full details of the BSPS2 
it should have known that the BSPS2 would very likely go ahead. And, in order to give Mr N 
enough information to make a fully informed decision about what was in his best interests, I 
think IFM should have told Mr N to defer making a decision on the transfer until further 
details of the BSPS2 were known. That would have given IFM the opportunity to provide an analysis of the comparison between the BSPS2 benefits, the PPF and the named personal 
pension. But IFM didnt provide any specific advice about what the likely benefits from the 
BSPS2 were. 
In fact IFM recognised in its suitability report that a comparison of benefits against the 
current BSPS scheme didnt present a true picture and arguably no value to the process. 
But it went ahead with its advice process whilst recognising that it was flawed.
The BSPS2 was thought to be of greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF for the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65. So, in reality, the growth rates required to match the 
BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF and those 
for the BSPS. But as I've already said, IFM didnt provide any actual critical yield figures for 
either the BSPS or the PPF. But it should have become aware, before submitting Mr Ns 
application to the named personal pension provider on 4 October 2017, that further details 
about the BSPS2 would soon become available. So, I think it should have deferred 
submitting Mr Ns application to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to allow it to provide 
an analysis of those BSPS2 benefits, once those became available. That would have 
allowed it to update its advice to include, in one place, a comparison of the relevant benefits 
of moving to the PPF, opting into the BSPS2 or transferring to the named personal pension. 
Had it done so Mr N would have been in a better place to make an informed decision.
I recognise IFM didnt have the BSPS2 information when it drafted its suitability report and 
that wouldnt become available until the following month. But Mr Ns CETV was guaranteed 
until December 2017. So IFM had no urgent need to press ahead with the transfer 
application when it did. 
Further, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no 
going back, so the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. So, regardless that 
IFM might have felt that its advice process was at an end after it issued its suitability report, I 
think it should have ensured that Mr N had sight of all the information he needed in order to 
make an informed choice before making a decision to transfer. And that included the 
material about the likely benefits of the BSPS2. But IFM didnt defer the process in order to 
do that.
Also, there are other flaws in IFMs evidence gathering and advice process. For example, Its 
suitability report said that early retirement was unlikely to be an option under the PPF. So it 
implied that Mr N would lose the option of taking early retirement if his pension went into the 
PPF. That is plainly wrong. In fact the benefits from the PPF for those taking early retirement 
and particularly for those wanting to take a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum, are more 
generous than the benefits from the BSPS (or the BSPS2). So it would appear that IFM 
misled Mr N on that point.
It follows that I dont think IFM communicated with Mr N in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. IFM made a recommendation to transfer, without having all the information Mr N 
needed in order to make an informed decision. 
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it was that Mr N would be better off in 
terms of retirement income by transferring. 
As I've said above the regulator required IFM to carry out a TVAS but theres no compelling 
evidence it did so, or, if it did, it didnt refer to any of the figures from it when it produced its 
suitability report. So there was no clear reference point for Mr N to make an informed 
decision about what hed be giving up by transferring.IFM suitability report said that investment returns (critical yields) to match the BSPS were 
typically around 8%. In its response to Mr Ns complaint IFM said the required growth rates 
were between 6 to 8% but it used the higher figure in order to represent a worst case 
scenario. But whatever rate it used IFM acknowledged that achieving such a yield was 
unlikely to be a realistic proposition. I agree thats the case, but its comparison was against 
the BSPS. However, as I've said above, Mr N didnt have the option of staying in the BSPS. 
And IFM didnt provide the critical yield figures required for either the PPF or the BSPS2. I 
think it should have done. 
However, critical yields aren't the only figures we consider when looking at financial viability. 
And the regulator also provides growth projections, which, at the time of IFMs advice had 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. So for someone with a 
balanced attitude to risk like Mr N, the chance of a growth rate of 5% was not impossible. 
But any growth would be reduced by the adviser and product charges that apply to a 
personal pension. In Mr Ns case, apart from the initial fee of £4,750 IFM charged, Mr N 
would also have to pay charges of 0.4% of the fund value each year to both IFM and the 
personal pension provider. So those charges would have reduced the investment growth by 
0.8%. Those are not charges he would have to pay had he remained in the DB scheme 
environment.
IFM gave its advice during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure 
of what an investment is likely to grow at in the future. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The relevant discount rates were 3.3% for six full years to 
retirement at age 55, 3.9% at age 60 and 4.3% at age 65. Those are considerably below 
IFMs estimated critical yield. So, I think Mr N was most likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2. Thats because I think the critical yield was 
likely to be towards that of the BSPS, if he transferred to a personal pension and took 
benefits at age 65, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
In addition, if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real 
chance that Mr Ns fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And while 
IFM did point out some of these risks to Mr N in its suitability report, as I've said above, I 
believe it should have deferred providing its advice until more was known about the BSPS2. 
And then it should have advised Mr N that remaining in the DB scheme (the benefits under 
which would be guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a 
personal pension would have been better suited to his needs.
Further, its notable that IFM has itself identified that the critical yields required were unlikely 
to be met by transferring. But it said in its suitability report that, as Mr N didnt wish to buy an 
annuity, then growth rates were largely academic. In other words its dismissed any 
comparison figures as being of little use. However, I find critical yield figures a useful tool as 
they are a reasonable comparison of the growth required in order to replace DB benefits with 
something of a similar nature, that is a product that would provide a guaranteed income for 
life.
Also, at the time of IFMs advice, the regulator required it to consider the rate of investment 
growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, IFM 
needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think its a relevant 
consideration here. Thats particularly the case as I dont think Mr N could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. While 
he said he wanted to retire at some point between ages 55 and 60, that was at least six 
years away, and the scheme retirement age of 65 was still 16 years away. So it was entirely 
possible that Mr N would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he 
could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
But, even if an alternative pension could match the required critical yield, there would be little 
point in Mr N giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So I'm not persuaded that 
transferring was in Mr Ns best interests.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as IFM 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the key reasons IFM gave for recommending a transfer was to allow Mr N to 
access his pension funds flexibly including the ability to retire early.
I've already said above that IFM told Mr N that if his pension were to move to the PPF then 
he wouldn't be able to take early retirement. Ill repeat that is wrong and in fact the provisions 
for early retirement from the PPF were known to be more generous than those from the 
BSPS. So its possible that, for Mr N, allowing his benefits to move to the PPF could have 
been the best option for him. But, while thats unlikely, owing to the absence of critical yields 
or other relevant evidence on IFMs file, such as Mr Ns entitlement to TFC or his yearly 
pension benefits from the PPF at various ages its difficult to say for certain.
Also, as far as I can tell IFM didnt do an analysis of what Mr Ns income needs in retirement 
would be and how he would meet those. Mr Ns evidence was that he had regular household 
outgoings of around £1,300 a month. Thats equivalent to £15,600 a year net. And while I 
don't know exactly what his income needs in retirement would be I think that was likely a 
higher sum than he would receive from either the BSPS2 or the PPF if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension. So I think it would have been fair to say that, if Mr N income needs 
remained the same and he was relying on his PPF or BSPS2 income alone, he couldn't 
have afforded to take early retirement.
But Mr N wouldn't be relying on his DB scheme income alone to meet household expenses. 
Mr N and his wife also had a number of buy-to-let properties that were generating a net 
income of around £18,000 a year. That was more than their regular household income 
needs by itself. I appreciate that rental income can't always be guaranteed, but it seems 
probable that Mr N would continue to receive that rental income into his retirement. 
Alternatively, he could have sold one or more of the properties and used the equity released 
to support his income needs. So I dont think Mr N would have been reliant on his DB 
scheme income alone to meet the household expenditure. Therefore, it's not the case that 
he and his wife wouldn't be able to meet their household expenses if Mr N took early 
retirement. 
Further, Mr N and his employer, together, were contributing to Mr Ns DC pension scheme a 
sum of around £3,900 a year. So, without allowing for any investment growth or increased 
contributions to reflect increasing wages, that DC pension would have a fund of around 
£23,400 by the time Mr N turned 55, £42,900 at 60 or £62,400 at 65. But IFM didnt provide 
any analysis of whether those funds could have supported Mr N in early retirement while 
taking his guaranteed income from the DB scheme. Also, Mr N could have accessed those 
funds in a flexible manner had he felt the need to. But IFM didnt refer to this income at all in its suitability report. So I dont think IFM presented all the information Mr N needed in order 
to make a fully informed decision.
Plus theres very little analysis within IFMs suitability report which shows how Mr N could 
meet his income needs. IFM did include a graph showing Mr N taking income from a 
personal pension by drawdown from age 60. It shows that the fund would sustain Mr N past 
his life expectancy. But that model is based on Mr N taking the same sum as he could take 
from the BSPS scheme. Those are from figures IFM has calculated itself and not from a 
TVAS. It shows Mr N taking an income of around £7,600 a year and TFC of £50,000. And 
while IFM said the graph was for illustration purposes only I don't find it helpful. First its 
based on BSPS figures, which IFM had already acknowledged wouldn't be accurate. 
Second, the graph is supposed to represent todays figures, that is the sums at the time 
that IFM gave its advice without allowing for investment growth or indexation. But the starting 
figure in the graph would appear to be around £360,000, whereas Mr Ns CETV was 
£337,000. But it hasn't explained the increase in the starting point in its suitability report. So I 
dont find it helpful.
There is a cashflow model elsewhere on the file, which shows that Mr N could take an 
income of £19,000 a year from age 55, which if he reduced once his state pension became 
payable at age 67, would last him beyond his life expectancy. But while its possible that IFM 
discussed this model with him in person, theres no reference to it whatsoever within IFMs 
suitability report. So its not clear whether Mr N ever had sight of it or if this is something IFM 
produced when considering its response to the complaint. Also, the model doesnt allow for 
any reduction for Mr N taking a TFC lump sum, which is something he said was important to 
him when he completed the fact-find. And that would, most likely, have reduced the amount 
remaining in the fund by 25% overnight. In turn that would have reduced the gains made 
from any subsequent investment growth. And those things could have meant that the fund 
would be depleted far sooner. So I don't think the model is reliable. And, given IFM hasn't 
made any reference to it in its suitability report, it isn't something that Mr N would have the 
opportunity to consider in any detail. It follows that I dont think it justifies IFMs 
recommendation to transfer.
That said, its true to say that Mr N couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those 
early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as 
drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him 
to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an attractive 
prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr N had any concrete need to vary his income 
throughout retirement. So while the option of drawing his income flexibly might seem like 
something that would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr N had any genuine need for that 
flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that IFM gave its 
advice.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension is generally an attractive feature to consumers. Thats because 
whatever was left within Mr Ns personal pension at the date of his death would be passed 
on to his family. And, if that happened before his retirement or soon after, then that would 
likely be a significant sum. In contrast the DB scheme or PPF would pay Mr Ns wife half of 
his yearly pension after he died. And that pension would die with her. So it couldn't be left as 
a legacy for family. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers and Mr N might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr N about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its not intended to provide a 
legacy for loved ones following death.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr N 
was married and the DB scheme would have paid his wife 50% of his yearly pension 
entitlement if he died before her. Also, if Mr N was unfortunate enough to die while his child 
was still in full-time education, then the DB schemes would also pay a dependents pension. 
I dont think IFM made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr N. These were 
guaranteed and escalated they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there may not have been a 
large sum left in the personal pension if Mr N lived a long life, the fund performed poorly of if 
he took large sums from it early in in his retirement. In any event, IFM should not have 
encouraged Mr N to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr N had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think IFM 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that life insurance can be expensive. 
So, the starting point ought to have been for IFM to ask Mr N how much he would ideally like 
to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis. But there's little evidence it did so. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr N. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and uncertainty 
Mr N ticked boxes in the fact-find questionnaire to say that he wanted to take control of his 
pension to ensure its security. But I think IFM overstated any wish Mr Ns had to control his 
pension. Theres no evidence that Mr N was a particularly experienced investor and I cant 
see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on 
his own. Indeed he would be paying IFM a proportion of his pension fund in order for it to do 
that for him. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr N  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Instead, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the future of the 
BSPS. Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr N had serious concerns about the 
security of their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Mr N. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the need for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. And Mr N might well have been leaning towards transferring when he sought 
advice. But IFM was tasked with rationally addressing Mr Ns concerns and providing an 
appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And in order to recommend that Mr N should transfer out of his DB scheme IFM needed to be able to clearly demonstrate 
that doing so was in his best interests.
When Mr N approached IFM there was still the possibility that his pension could move to the  
PPF. And the BSPS2 had still not been confirmed. But, as I've indicated above, by that time, 
and given the recent developments, it was more likely than not that the BSPS2 would go 
ahead. Indeed it's notable that IFMs suitability report did comment that it was expected 
that the BSPS2 would be set up, so Mr Ns choices were between the BSPS2, the PPF or a 
transfer to a personal pension. 
Further, even if Mr N remained concerned about the possibility, even if it was a slim one, of 
the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I think IFM should 
have addressed that concern. A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a 
reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension 
increases. But the 10% reduction didnt necessarily mean Mr N would be worse off. As I've 
already said, for those taking early retirement the PPF could have been more beneficial to 
them. 
So I don't think any concerns Mr N had about the possibility of his pension funds moving to 
the PPF was sufficient reason to justify transferring out of the DB environment. Thats 
because to do so would unnecessarily expose those funds to the volatilities and risks of the 
investment markets. It follows that I dont think those concerns should have led to IFM 
recommending Mr N transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Would Mr N have opted into the BSPS2?
As I've already said the BSPS2 wasnt established when IFM gave its advice. And, as 
indicated above, I think IFM should have deferred giving Mr N advice until more about the 
BSPS2 was known. Had it done so it could have advised Mr N after the DB trustees had 
sent Mr N his time to choose pack. The trustees sent those packs in October 2017. They 
contained a comparison of benefits between the BSPS2 and the PPF. They gave members 
three options:
To stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2.
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement.
For the reasons given above I dont think a transfer to a personal pension was in Mr Ns best 
interests. That would have left him with a choice between opting for the BSPS2 or a move to 
the PPF. The BSPS2 had, on the whole, more generous benefits than the PPF. Also by 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr N would have kept the option to transfer out of that scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if that was what he decided to do. So, had IFM deferred its 
advice until after the BSPS2 information was known, I think it should have advised Mr N to 
opt into the BSPS2. I think Mr N would have accepted that advice. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr N. But IFM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr N might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr N needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
IFM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr N about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Ns DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And ultimately, I dont think the advice IFM gave to Mr N was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income from the DB scheme. By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr N was, in my view, putting those funds at risk unnecessarily and was 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular 
reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ns best interests for him to transfer his DB funds to a personal 
pension. Instead, I think IFM should have advised him to remain within the DB environment 
and opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr N would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for IFMs advice. After thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he would 
have done so. I accept that Mr N most likely entered into the advice process with an idea he 
didnt want his pension to enter the PPF and he wanted to take control of it. But he wasnt a 
particularly experienced investor and had a balanced attitude to risk. However, he was 
putting his funds at unnecessary risk by transferring. And his DB pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had given him clear advice against 
transferring his safeguarded benefits, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that 
he would likely be worse off as a result of doing so, I think he would have accepted that 
advice.
It follows that I don't think IFMs advice to Mr N to transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable 
for him. So, I think IFM should compensate Mr N for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr N, I think IFM should also pay him £250 
to address that. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr N, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would have most 
likely remained in the DB scheme and then opted into the BSPS2 if IFM had given suitable 
advice. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If IFM 
doesn't yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of the 
FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should 
be sent to Mr Ns representative and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what IFM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr N has not yet retired, and  as far as Im aware  he has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr N acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr N redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr N before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr N receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr N accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr N for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr N end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr N as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ns likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr N £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr N the balance.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman