DRN-3977652
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, irresponsibly lent to her
What happened
Mrs L opened two shopping accounts with Studio; one in May 2008 and the other in 
November 2016. There is very little information still available about the first account opened. 
Her November 2016 account had an initial limit of £300 which was increased on five later 
occasions, eventually reaching £1,000 in June 2000.
 
Mrs L says that Studio shouldnt have lent to her. She says that she was in financial difficulty 
and Studio should have done more to find out if the credit was affordable for her. 
Studio says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs L  and when it increased her 
credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ls complaint should be partially upheld. They didnt have 
enough information about the first account opened in May 2008 to say that the lending had 
been irresponsible, but they thought that the November 2016 account shouldnt have been 
opened at all. 
Our investigator said that Studio should pay back interest and charges it made as a result of 
the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs L. 
Mrs L agreed with this outcome. Studio didnt agree. It said that Mrs L met its lending criteria 
and none of her account activity indicated any financial pressure or material financial 
difficulty.
As Studio didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ls complaint.
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs L. These factors include:
Mrs Ls income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments to a 
given credit amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs L had been indebted, 
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Neither party holds any information about the account opened in May 2008. So I cant know 
what the original account opening limit was, or any future credit limit increases were. And I 
dont know what checks Studio did or what Mrs Ls circumstances were at the time. So I 
cant fairly say that Studio did anything wrong. 
Studio has provided a copy of the checks it did at the time it opened Mrs Ls November 2016 
account. Studio also submitted that Mrs Ls application was automatically accepted. The 
implication by Studio was that if Mrs Ls application was automatically accepted there was 
nothing in its automatic checks which caused concern and therefore its checks were 
proportionate. Studio said that Mrs L had an estimated income of £23,100 per year and that 
she didnt have any delinquent accounts at her current address. 
Our investigator thought that because Mrs Ls account was a revolving credit account that 
Studio ought to have done more checks to ensure Mrs L could pay back any credit in a 
sustainable way within a reasonable period of time. I dont think this specifically applied to 
revolving credit accounts over other types of lending  I think it applies to all lending. But I do 
agree that Studio ought to have done more checks. I say this because Studio had reliable 
information to suggest Mrs L had financial difficulties only a year or so earlier. Mrs Ls 2008 
Studio account had defaulted in March 2015 and the £1,620 debt had been sold to a third-
party debt collector. This information was readily available to Studio. And I can see from the 
information Studio later provided that it had information to show that Mrs L had missed a 
payment on an active revolving credit account within the preceding six months. Mrs L had a 
high number of revolving credit accounts at nine accounts and she was using more than 
50% of her credit limit on three of them, with one utilising more than 90%. It wasnt clear 
from the checks which it did how much outstanding credit Mrs L had. 
On the basis of this information, I think Studio ought to have done more checks before it lent 
to Mrs L. I consider it ought to have checked her income and expenditure before it lent to 
her. 
I dont know exactly what Studio would have seen if it hadnt automatically accepted Mrs Ls 
application and had completed checks on her income and expenditure. In the absence of 
this information, I think its fair to place weight on the information Mrs L has been able to 
provide about her circumstances at the time. This includes information from her bank 
statements and her own credit file.
Those bank statements show that she was in receipt of benefits and earning an additional 
£400 a month, giving her a monthly income of around £1,430 a month. This is clearly 
considerably below the income Studio estimated for Mrs L. Her credit file showed an additional missed payment to another revolving credit provider seven months earlier as well 
as the one Studio was aware of about five months earlier. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ls bank statements I can see that she was paying about £150 to other 
credit providers, although its not clear whether this was enough to sustainably repay her 
borrowing. Mrs L explains that she spent about £650 a month on essential outgoings. And I 
can see that she was gambling relatively heavily for her income. She spent approximately 
£620, £400 and £100 in the three consecutive months leading up to the lending decision. 
While gambling is an entirely legal activity, it can be an indication that someone may 
experience financial difficulties.
Had Studio taken a holistic view of Mrs Ls income and expenditure, along with the 
information it already held about missed payments and her default on another account with 
Studio only the previous year, I think it ought to have concluded that Mrs L wasnt in a 
position to sustainably afford the repayments on her new account. I think Mrs L lost out as a 
result of what Studio did wrong. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio to refund any interest and charges incurred by Mrs L 
as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. Therefore, Studio should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred on the November 2016 account.
Studio should work out how much Mrs L would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs L made should be used to reduce the adjusted 
balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs L 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs L no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file. 
If an outstanding balance remains, Studio should look to arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs L for the outstanding amount. As the debt was sold to a third-
party, Studio Retail Limited should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the debt 
owner to ensure the above steps are undertaken. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs L a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it extended credit to Mrs L in November 
2016. To put this right I direct Studio Limited to pay compensation as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman