DRN-2569346
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly and irresponsibly arranged 
unaffordable loans for him.
 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr W being provided 
with a first loan in March 2016. The loan was for £18,900.00, had an APR of 23.53% and 
meant a total amount of £29,413.91 was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £490.23.      
Mr W settled this loan early with some of the proceeds from a second loan for £25,280.00 
which Zopa arranged in September 2016. Mr Ws second loan had an APR of 19.54% and 
the total amount payable of £35,027.51 was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £583.79.
Mr Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown Zopa that Mr W wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay either of these loans at the time it arranged them. And so she didnt 
recommend Mr Ws complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are three overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These three 
questions are:
These three overarching questions are:
Did Zopa complete proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be able 
to meet his obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it fairly conclude that Mr W could sustainably make his 
repayments?
oIf not, would such checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do 
so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Zopa ought reasonably to have realised Mr Ws indebtedness was 
being increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it 
shouldnt have arranged further loans?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be able to meet his 
obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about these 
P2P agreements with Mr W required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether 
he could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood of Mr W making 
payments, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were Zopas checks proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W before 
arranging both of these loans. Its underwriting notes also suggest that it carried out credit 
checks to work out what Mr Ws existing credit commitments were as well requesting and 
receiving bank statements from him too. Having seen the notes from the time and bearing in 
mind Mr Ws recollections of the applications, Im satisfied Zopa received this information.
So bearing in mind Zopa obtained a significant amount of information on Mr Ws
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out fair proportionate checks  at least in terms 
of the information requested  before providing these loans to Mr W.
Did Zopa fairly conclude that Mr W could sustainably make his repayments?
It isnt enough for an operator of an electronic platform in relation to lending to simply 
request information from a consumer before approving a loan. So even where the platform 
requested a proportionate amount of information, it might still end up being the case that it 
will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer if it didnt carry out a fair and 
reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because an operator of a platform is also required to carry out an assessment of 
the borrowers ability to repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an 
evaluation, judgement, appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Zopa says its 
assessment of the information obtained led it to conclude that Mr Ws loan was affordable for 
him as hed be able to sustainably make his repayments. Ive carefully considered what 
Zopa has said.
Loan 1
Having reviewed the notes for loan 1, I can see that Zopa approved Mr Ws application on 
the basis that his bank statements confirmed that he had a monthly income of around 
£1,350.00. So its fair to say that almost £500 a month for this loan was taking up a 
significant portion of Mr Ws income  especially as he already had a loan which required 
payments of approaching £540 a month. 
However, Zopa has said that Mr W made it clear during the application that he would be 
using some of the funds from this loan to repay the hire-purchase agreement and so he 
wasnt going to be making the £540 a month payment he was previously making to this 
agreement. And crucially the monthly payment Mr W would be making to this loan going 
forward was lower than what he was making to the hire-purchase agreement.
This was a first loan that Zopa was arranging for Mr W. He was going to consolidate some of 
his existing debts and Mr W didnt have much else in the way of any other obvious 
committed regular expenditure, or anything else obvious suggesting it would have been 
unfair to proceed showing on his statements. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Zopa to proceed with the application in these circumstances.    
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that not only did Zopa carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks for loan 1, it was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr W could make 
the loan payments he was committing to make. 
Loan 2Mr W approached Zopa for loan 2 some six months after loan 1 was provided. And once 
again the purpose given for this loan was debt consolidation. Its important to note that the 
credit searches Zopa carried out did show that Mr W settled the hire-purchase agreement 
which he said hes settle during the application for loan 1. So although I accept the proximity 
between the applications for loans 2 and 1 might have been a warning sign, especially given 
the increased monthly payment, I dont think Zopa had any obvious reason to disbelieve or 
doubt Mr Ws intentions. 
Mr Ws bank statements also show less in the way of committed regular expenditure at the 
time of loan 1 (the payments to the hire-purchase agreement was replaced by the lower 
monthly repayment to loan 1). And there wasnt anything in the bank statements which 
obviously contradicted what Mr W told Zopa about his circumstances or expenditure. For 
example, he was still living with his parents and he still had relatively low living expenses. I 
do accept and fully appreciate that Mr W was overdrawn but the additional funds he was 
given would have allowed him to clear his overdraft in full.   
So overall the information Ive been provided with about Mr Ws circumstances does appear 
to show that when his committed expenditure and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably 
make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Ive seen what Mr W has said about not having enough left each month to meet his living 
expenses. It's not in dispute that Mr W went on to experience difficulty making his payments. 
And Im sorry that Mr W had difficulty repaying this loan. That said, the information Ive seen 
suggests that this was, in part at least, because Mr W stopped living with his parents not too 
long after loan 2 was arranged and this led to a drastic increase to his living costs. 
I know this change in circumstances happened relatively soon after the application. But there 
isnt anything to suggest that it was clear from the information gathered, or that Mr W told 
Zopa, that Mr Ws circumstances were about to change. So I cant reasonably say that this is 
something Zopa ought to have accounted for when deciding whether Mr W could afford the 
monthly payments for loan 2. 
As this is the case, I think that Zopa was reasonably entitled to conclude Mr W could make 
his loan payments when it brought about loan 2 for him - it carried out proportionate checks 
and the information gathered suggested the repayments were affordable. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Zopa ought reasonably to have realised Mr Ws indebtedness was being increased in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have arranged further loans?
Even though Zopa might have reasonably concluded that Mr W could make the repayments 
to the loans it brought about, this doesnt on its own mean that it will have acted fairly and 
reasonably here. I say this because in addition to assessing the circumstances behind the 
individual loans arranged for Mr W by Zopa, I also think it is fair and reasonable to consider 
the overall pattern of lending during the course of Mr Ws history with Zopa. 
Zopa arranged loan 2 a mere matter of months after loan 1. In the circumstances, and 
bearing in mind the increased proportion of Mr Ws income going towards repaying loan 2, I 
think that Zopa needed to be alert to the possibility that it might have been increasing Mr Ws 
indebtedness unsustainably and take reasonable steps to ensure this didnt happen.
When Mr W applied for loan 2, his largest existing debt was to Zopa. And by automatically 
closing loan 1, by using some of the funds advanced for loan 2 to repay it, Zopa mitigated 
the risk of Mr Ws debts increasing in a way that was unsustainable. Furthermore, as the bulk of the funds for loan 2 went towards repaying loan 1, Im also satisfied that the loan 
purpose captured during the application was accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Zopa took reasonable steps 
to ensure that it wasnt increasing Mr Ws existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as well reasonable steps to ensure the monthly 
repayments were affordable.   
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other 
way. So I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
one and two of this decision, I find that:
Zopa did complete fair and reasonable and/or proportionate checks on Mr W to 
satisfy itself that he was able to repay his loans; 
Zopa did reasonably decide to approve loans 1 and 2 as the information gathered 
demonstrated that Mr W was more likely than able to sustainably make the 
repayments for these loans;
It isnt the case that Zopa ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that these 
loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr W and so shouldnt have been 
arranged, as it took reasonable steps to ensure these loans wouldnt unfairly and 
excessively increased his overall indebtedness;
Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr W. And this means Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman