DRN-2171316
The complaint 
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly refused his claim brought under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This related to an alleged misrepresentation over 
accommodation. He wants a refund of the costs he incurred.
What happened
Mr L tells us that he pre-booked what he believed to be hotel accommodation for himself and 
his wife for a self-drive touring holiday abroad using his Lloyds credit card. The 
accommodation was booked using an agency website but payment was made to the 
supplier of the accommodation. This complaint relates to a business Ill refer to as D. And 
Mr L had booked a stay of 3 nights.
Mr L complains that when they arrived, they discovered the accommodation was in a hostel 
and not a hotel. He also says the service upon arrival was poor and he and his wife were 
rushed to their room. As Mr L didnt consider the accommodation suitable for their needs, he 
found an alternative room elsewhere. He now seeks a refund of his costs in relation to his 
booking with D, which he feels was misrepresented.
Lloyds told us that it had declined Mr Ls claim as the accommodation hadnt been 
misrepresented. And that it had been Mr Ls decision not to use the accommodation which 
was available to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
no information to show that the accommodation booked by Mr L had been misrepresented.
Mr L didnt agree with this. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr L and his wife were disappointed that the accommodation provided by D 
wasnt up to their expectations. And I understand that it would be upsetting to be seeking to 
make last minute changes in the midst of a holiday.
Mr Ls complaint is about the alleged misdescription of accommodation he booked. And also 
the poor service he received upon arrival.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by Lloyds under both chargeback provisions and section 
75. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme operated by the card issuer. In the context of this 
complaint theres no practical difference about the grounds on which the complaint was 
brought under either heading. Mr L is saying he was misled into thinking he was booking a 
hotel.
Chargeback was defended by the merchant on the basis that Mr L hadnt liked the room and 
had decided to leave. D said that he hadnt cancelled the room and had retained the keys. 
As Lloyds hadnt any grounds to challenge this, it went on to consider the claim under 
Section 75. I find that this was the correct action to take.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer a like claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer loss as a result of the misrepresentation. A breach of contract might 
occur if a supplier didnt provide what it had offered. So its important to try and identify what 
Mr L actually booked and what was provided.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ls complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
Whilst looking through the information with which Ive been supplied Ive noticed that the 
accommodation has been referred to by numerous different descriptions. The business 
name is D Suites, and the accommodation has also been referred to in the correspondence 
Ive seen between the parties and our investigator as apartments, guest house, hostel and 
hotel. I suspect that this lies at the heart of the complaint.
Mr L couched his complaint in terms of what had not been made clear in the advertisement 
on the website through which hed booked the accommodation. So it seems to be more 
about a false impression having been created.  But its Mr L who describes the 
accommodation as a hostel. Possibly on the basis that when he first arrived, he was 
apparently asked by a staff member if he was looking for the hostel. And when he replied 
that he was looking for a hotel and identified the specific address, it proved to be the same 
location as the staff member was referring to as a hostel. 
Allowing for the differences in interpretation, I dont think anything rests upon the generic 
description of the accommodation itself. Ive not seen the original website advert but as Mr 
Ls complaint appears to more about what was omitted rather than what was positively 
asserted, Ill concentrate on the finer detail.
I dont think its in doubt that Mr L was looking to book a private room for himself and his 
wife. And judging by the price paid of around £400 for three nights its not unreasonable to 
have certain expectations about quality.Although it was provided only after the booking had been completed the confirmation email 
provides some assistance. It outlines what Mr L had booked in terms of accommodation  a 
double room for himself and his wife. No meal option is included. It also lists some of the 
additional facilities which included hairdryer, fridge, private bathroom, free toiletries.
Mr L hasnt made any complaint about the room itself, describing it as ok. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that the facilities that had been referred to in the confirmation email 
werent available.
For there to have been a misrepresentation or breach of contract in these circumstances its 
necessary for something to have been falsely stated and / or not supplied. And Ive not seen 
any information which shows that this happened. 
Ive already said I dont think anything turns on a generic description of the accommodation 
in this case. And I think its more probable than not that Mr L has made some assumptions. I 
doubt if most persons would associate hostel accommodation with the provision of private 
rooms, private bathrooms and the provision of free toiletries.
As the accommodation that he booked was made available to Mr L, Im unable to say that 
there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract. And it was his decision to go 
elsewhere. Lloyds also wouldnt be liable for any poor customer service by D which didnt 
separately amount to a breach of contract. 
In summary, I find that Lloyds was entitled to take the view that - in the absence of sufficient 
information to show thered been any misrepresentation or breach of contract by D - it had 
no liability under section 75. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman