DRN-1986713
The complaint
Mr P complains because Vitality Health Limited hasnt paid a claim under his private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P is insured under a group private medical insurance policy, arranged through his 
employer. The policy is provided by Vitality. 
Mr P visited his GP and was told he needed to be referred to hospital for tests. Mr P went 
home while this was arranged and, a few hours later, received a call telling him to go to 
hospital. Mr P waited at the hospital before being examined and speaking to a consultant, 
who said he needed an operation. Mr P was admitted to a ward that night and had surgery 
two days later. Mr P remained in hospital for a further seven days. 
Mr P made a claim under the NHS hospital cash benefit section of his policy with Vitality, 
but Vitality said Mr P wasnt eligible as the benefit wasnt payable for an emergency 
admission. Unhappy, Mr P complained to Vitality before bringing his complaint to the 
attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Vitality had been 
unfair or unreasonable by refusing to pay Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy which were in effect at the time of his claim say 
NHS hospital cash benefit is payable in the following circumstances;
Whats covered
A cash amount payable for:
eligible in-patient treatment that you chose to have as a non-paying NHS patient 
even though you could have had the treatment in a private facility
So, this benefit is intended to be paid in circumstances where a policyholder opts to receive 
NHS treatment instead of making a claim under the policy for planned private medical 
treatment. As such, the policy contains the following exclusion;
Whats not covered
if you are admitted to an NHS hospital in an emergency, no benefit will be 
payable for any part of the admission
The policy goes on to outline what is meant by emergency treatment. This is defined as:
treatment in an Accident & Emergency unit or other urgent care centre
any admission to hospital that was scheduled less than 24 hours in advance
Exclusions like this are common to most, if not all, private medical insurance policies on the 
market  unplanned operations of the type Mr P needed generally arent covered. 
I understand Mr P wasnt taken to hospital in an ambulance, nor was he admitted through 
A&E and the hospital was expecting his arrival. I also understand Mr P waited at home while 
his GP arranged his attendance at hospital and he then had to wait at the hospital before 
being admitted and having surgery two days later. But Mr Ps admission to hospital was 
scheduled less than 24 hours in advance and this means the claim he made isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
Mr P says his claim should be covered under an exception to the above policy exclusion, 
which says:
However, we will cover admission to hospital for a surgical procedure that 
immediately follows an out-patient appointment with a consultant providing:
you are referred to a consultant following a face-to-face appointment with a GPand
it was not known the admission would be required when the consultant appointment 
was booked, and
your consultant appointment does not take place in an Accident & Emergency unit or 
other urgent care centre, and 
it is for treatment eligible under your plan.
However, Mr Ps GP didnt refer him to an appointment with a consultant  Mr Ps GP 
referred him to the hospital  so I dont think Mr Ps claim is covered under this exception. 
The contract Mr Ps employer holds with Vitality, under which Mr P is insured, is annually 
renewable. This means the benefits payable under and the terms and conditions of the 
policy last for one year and can change at each renewal. 
Vitality changed the terms and conditions of Mr Ps private medical insurance policy at his 
policy renewal date in 2019. Vitality was entitled to do this but, even if I were to agree that 
Vitality had made an error in this regard, Im not satisfied Mr P has been disadvantaged as a 
result. The definition of emergency treatment was different under the previous policy terms 
and conditions but I dont think the circumstances Mr P is claiming for would have been 
covered under the previous policy definition either. And, I think Mr P is unlikely to have found 
alternative private medical insurance cover elsewhere that would pay a benefit in the 
situation he found himself in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of his policy, and I dont think Vitality has been unfair or unreasonable by turning 
down his claim. So, I wont be asking Vitality to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman