DRN-4326348
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund him after he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr A is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr A throughout this decision.
What Mr A says
Mr A says that in early 2022 he received a request to follow someone on a social media 
platform. Ill refer to this person as W in my decision. Initially Mr A and W built up a friendship 
but after around three weeks W started to discuss investing in cryptocurrency with Mr A. W 
showed Mr A screenshots and a link to a trading platform. On Ws advice, Mr A made 
various transactions and could see his profit increasing. When Mr A wanted to withdraw 
funds, he experienced difficulties and was asked to make further payments for things like tax 
and a mining fee. He realised he was the victim of a scam and reported what had happened 
to Santander in June 2022. 
I have set out below the payments Mr A would like Santander to refund. All transactions 
were to accounts in Mr As name with another bank (recipient one) and an electronic money 
institution (EMI  recipient two). From these third-party accounts Mr A made payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and then on to the scammer.  
Date Amount Recipient
07/02/22 £5,848 1
07/02/22 £105 1
07/02/22 £1,448 1
08/02/22 £20,000 1
08/02/22 £20,000 1
10/02/22 £10,000 2
10/02/22 £20,000 1
10/02/22 £10,000 1
12/03/22 £10,000 1
What Santander say
Santander noted that the points Mr As representative raised about the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) arent relevant as it doesnt 
apply in this case. It suggested that Mr A contact the firms he transferred funds to. 
Santander also said that it had the right security measures in place.
Mr A was unhappy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
referred to a call that took place when Santander blocked Mr As account on 10 February 
2022 and said that even if Santander had blocked an earlier transaction Mr A would still 
have made the payment. This was because when Santander intervened Mr A said he was 
transferring funds to two third party accounts of his and didnt tell the truth about being 
helped with the investment. Although Santander gave fraud warnings, Mr A was clear that he 
wanted to make the payments. The investigator felt that if Mr A had been honest, Santander 
may have had concerns and asked additional questions.  
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. In summary, he said:
- The payments were out of character so Santander should have intervened 
irrespective of the fact the payments went to accounts in Mr As name. 
- Santander was concerned enough to intervene on 10 February 2022 but didnt go far 
enough. Mr A gave examples of questions Santander should have asked which 
would likely have uncovered the scam and said that Santander should have kept the 
block in place and required Mr A to go into a branch. 
- Mr A did answer the question about whether anyone was helping him with the 
investment honestly, as he thought he was investing on his own behalf. 
- The investigators conclusion that further questioning wouldnt have made a 
difference was purely hypothetical. And Mr As audible lack of interest in Santanders 
questions shouldnt have swayed Santanders decision to allow the payment to go 
through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because it only applies to certain payments to 
another person and Mr A transferred funds to his own accounts. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Santander is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Mr A made and 
authorised these payments, although I accept that when he did so he didnt think his funds 
were at risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr A when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
I dont think the first payments on 7 February 2022 were unusual or out of character given Mr 
As previous account history. Just a few days before he had made a faster payment of 
£5,000 to an individual. He also said the reason for each payment was a transfer to his own 
account. Given these factors, Im not persuaded there was any reason for Santander to be 
concerned. 
Its possible that Santander should have intervened when Mr A made the first payment of 
£20,000 on 8 February 2022, given the value of it  rather than when it did so two days later. 
But I dont think I need to reach a finding on this given what I say below.  
I have listened to the call between Santanders fraud team and Mr A on 10 February 2022. In 
this call Mr A confirmed there was no fraud going on and hed just like to transfer funds to his 
own account. Mr A was frustrated and asked the Santander advisor to be quick. The 
Santander fraud advisor completed confirmation of payee checks on each proposed 
recipient (Mr As bank and EMI accounts) and established that the payments were going to 
accounts in the name of Mr A. I believe the confirmation of payee matches would have 
reassured Santander that Mr A was making payments to accounts in his name that he had 
control of.
Santander went further though and checked that Mr A hadnt been told what to say to it and 
that nobody had asked him to make the payments or to download software. Mr A gave clear 
negative answers and confirmed that the payments were genuine. Given that Santander had 
confirmed the payments were going to Mr As own accounts, I dont consider it needed to 
have asked further questions or probed more. The position would be different if Santander 
hadnt checked the payments were going to Mr As own accounts with a bank and EMI (for 
example if the payments were to an individual or a cryptocurrency exchange). In those 
circumstances Id expect Santander to have gone further and asked the kind of questions Mr 
As representative has raised. 
Ive also noted that at the time of the scam transactions there were a lot of transfers between 
Mr As accounts, including credits. And Mr A had previously made payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange so transactions relating to investments werent unusual for him.  
So, Im satisfied that if Santander had intervened sooner as its arguable it should have, the 
outcome would have been the same and the scam wouldnt have been uncovered. 
Mr A may wish to complain to the bank and EMI he transferred funds to if he hasnt already. 
Overall, whilst Im very sorry to hear about this cruel scam, I cant reasonably ask Santander 
to refund Mr As loss. Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman