DRN-3688439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs L purchased a points-based timeshare membership to use across 
resorts at a holiday club, which is now owned by Business D. The membership cost £6,365 
and their documents from the time of sale show they successfully applied for a loan from 
First National Consumer Finance Limited (a GE Money company) to pay the full amount of 
the purchase price. The agreement number for their loan application ended with 216.
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs L approached GE Money, via their representative, to raise a claim 
under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA  because they said GE Money provided the 
finance for them to purchase the timeshare. In summary, they said they were subjected to 
undue, high pressure and pushy sales tactics by Business D and the membership was 
misrepresented to them for a number of reasons, including that the resorts would be 
exclusive for members, they would be guaranteed high-quality accommodation, and there 
would be good availability. They also said the sales negotiations were unfair due to the 
misrepresentations, failures and sales tactics used. They said the timeshare was mis-sold, 
the potential risks were not disclosed, and Business D didnt make sure the memberships 
were suitable for Mr and Mrs L. 
In response, GE Money said they were unable to trace any records of an account for the 
loan application number ending 216. But they felt any claims raised under the CCA would be 
out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) in any event. Further, GE Money said that Mr 
and Mrs Ls complaint about the sale and workings of the memberships should be taken up 
with Business D directly. Overall, they didnt uphold the claims.
Unhappy with GE Moneys response, Mr and Mrs L brought a complaint about GE Money to 
our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Overall, he 
thought Mr and Mrs L raised their claims too late under the LA, and he didnt think there 
were any sections of the LA that would extend the time. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
In response, Mr and Mrs Ls representative said they wanted the case referred to an 
ombudsman, but they didnt provide any further comments to explain why they thought the 
claims were raised in time. Because Mr and Mrs L disagreed via their representative, the 
case was referred to me for a decision. 
Before reviewing Mr and Mrs Ls case fully, I provided a copy of the 2004 joint loan 
application form and the letter confirming their application was successful to GE Money to 
see whether they were now able to locate any records for the account. But GE Money 
confirmed they still werent able to trace an executed loan for the 2004 timeshare purchase.
I also clarified the investigators view with both parties. In his view, the investigator relied on 
an incorrect end date for the loan when explaining his findings on Mr and Mrs Ls section 
140A claim. In fact, GE Money cannot confirm the end date for the 2004 loan because it 
cannot find any records for the account. They explained that this is likely because the 
account was closed more than six years prior to Mr and Mrs L contacting GE Money to raise 
their claims in 2019. I explained that this means its also likely that their section 140A claim 
would still have been brought outside the relevant six year time limit under the LA, so this 
wouldnt change the outcome reached by the investigator on that particular point.
 
I asked for any further comments from the parties in response to this clarification. GE Money 
responded to say they have noted the points made. Mr and Mrs L didnt respond by the 
deadline given. So, I am now proceeding to make my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my 
decision. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs L, if I dont address every point thats been 
raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats 
been said and sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
The relevant law
In this case, section 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and Mrs L paid for goods or services using 
certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor (in this case GE Money) can also be 
held responsible. 
Mr and Mrs L also raised a claim under section 140A of the CCA. Under this section a 
court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out of the 
agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
However, if the creditor can show that any claims under section 75 or 140A of the CCA 
were brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on 
the LA as a defence to answering those claims. So, I must also take the LA into 
account, as relevant law. 
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether GE Money acted fairly and 
reasonably in response to Mr and Mrs Ls claims under the CCA. Mr and Mrs Ls claim under section 75 of the CCA
Mr and Mrs L say the seller misrepresented a number of points in relation to the nature 
and benefits of the timeshare agreement they purchased in 2004. So, they say 
GE Money is jointly liable for the misrepresentations under section 75 of the CCA. 
Under section 75, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim 
under that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be 
considered under section 140A of the CCA. GE Money has said that there was no such 
agreement in this case, as the supplier of the timeshare was Business D, but the loan 
proceeds went to a different business, Business E, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as 
GE Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim under section 75 and/or section 140A of the CCA. What is crucial is the relationship 
between the supplier of the service (Business D) and the business that took the payment 
(Business E). But Ive not gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think 
there were the right relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total 
defence under the LA. Ill explain why.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of 
those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ls claim for misrepresentation against GE Money was brought 
under the CCA, so would be covered by section 9 of the LA. This means Mr and Mrs L had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ls case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
June 2004. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business D. Mr and Mrs L say, had the misrepresentations not been 
made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a 
loss, as they say they took out the joint loan with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 14 June 2004, so Mr and 
Mrs L had six years from that date to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until January 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in 
the LA. So, I think GE Money acted reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ls 
misrepresentation claim on this basis.Mr and Mrs Ls claim under section 140A of the CCA
Mr and Mrs Ls representative provided evidence to show they purchased their timeshare 
membership on 14 June 2004 and successfully applied for a loan with GE Money on the 
same date for the full purchase price of £6,365. However, as explained above, GE Money 
have been unable to find any records of this loan on their systems. GE Money said that in 
line with their information retention policy, the records relating to this account may have been 
securely destroyed if the loan was closed more than six years ago. 
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the 
limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs L would have to bring an action within six years 
of any loan account being settled or closed. 
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ls loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not 
surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. 
GE Money said that their records do not go back for more than six years, so when an 
account is untraceable, this means it has likely been closed for at least that length of time. 
And as they couldnt locate Mr and Mrs Ls account at the time of claim in 2019, I find it likely 
the account would have been closed more than six years prior to that. 
I therefore find it most likely that Mr and Mrs Ls loan account was closed more than six 
years prior to them contacting GE Money to raise their claim. This means I think its most 
likely they also brought their section 140A claim too late. So, I dont think GE Money needs 
to do anything further in response to their claim. 
Conclusion
Overall, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs L 
may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any section 75 or section 140A claim that Mr and Mrs L 
might have against GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I 
think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. 
This means I dont think GE Money did anything wrong by declining Mr and Mrs Ls 
section 75 claim on this basis. And, while I think GE Money ought to have considered their 
section 140A claim, Im not persuaded GE Money would have upheld it if they had 
properly considered it, because it was also made out of time. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think the relevant time limits would likely be extended in this case. And I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence to show any other reason why Mr and Mrs Ls complaint 
about GE Money should be upheld. So, I wont be asking GE Money to do anything further 
in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman