DRN-3447154
The complaint
Mr L complained about problems he had with Sainsburys Bank Plc when he disputed a 
number of fraudulent transactions. 
What happened
In June 2018, a number of online transactions were made on Mr Ls Sainsburys credit card. 
He reported to Sainsburys that these were fraudulent. Sainsburys verbally confirmed it had 
refunded him, and had removed all related charges. Mr L couldnt check online because of 
problems accessing Sainsburys website, so he asked Sainsburys to confirm in writing what 
it had refunded, including the charges.
Sainsburys said it would provide this, but Mr L didnt receive anything. When he did  receive 
statements, they didnt clearly show what had and hadnt been refunded. Mr L told 
Sainsburys he wouldnt make payments until Sainsburys provided information about the 
account. But as time went on, interest built up, so Mr L paid, even though he wasnt satisfied 
that the balance was correct. He did so because of the interest, and because he didnt want 
his excellent credit score to be affected.
In February 2021, Mr L contacted this service. He said that hed recently received 
statements but couldnt see whether or not several thousand pounds had been refunded or 
not. Hed been unable to speak to anyone at Sainsburys who would help him resolve it, and 
said that customer support didnt return his many calls.
Mr L said he wanted Sainsburys to write to him with a full, easy-to-understand explanation 
of which charges had and hadnt been refunded. He wanted a refund of all interest paid 
during the time when Sainsburys hadnt been able to provide statements, and compensation 
for the damage to his credit score.
Sainsburys final response letter
Our investigator asked Sainsburys for more information, and in June 2021 Sainsburys sent 
Mr L its final response to his complaint.
Mr L had asked Sainsburys for:
- A clear breakdown of charges which Sainsburys had accepted as fraudulent, and 
date of refunds;
- Refunds for charges that Sainsburys had missed as fraudulent payments;
- Refund of interest from the start to end of the complaint process;
- He said hed been charged a late payment fee when hed paid on time, and this had 
resulted in a marker on his credit file, the only one in 10 years. This was 
professionally significant for him;
- There was a further £1,169.96 payment which was unusual on the account and he 
had no record of it.
In the final response letter, Sainsburys said that:
- In June 2018, it wrote off 21 transactions totalling £3,615.67;
- It hadnt refunded a transaction for £271.95 which Mr L had said was fraudulent. 
Sainsburys agreed it should have refunded this, and said it was happy to refund it;
- It had later refunded one other transaction for £122.99 in July 2018; 
- It hadnt refunded a third transaction, for £1,169.96, because Mr L hadnt reported it 
as fraudulent at the time, so it had no reason to believe it was fraudulent.
Sainsburys also noted that Mr L had cancelled his direct debit and hadnt paid his full 
balance off each month from June 2018, because hed been waiting for Sainsburys to ring 
him back. Hed only paid the minimum amount each month, so hed incurred interest. 
Sainsburys said it would refund the interest from July 2018 to December 2018, which 
totalled £331.45. Sainsburys said it wouldnt refund all interest, because Mr L had set up a 
direct debit in December 2018 for the minimum payment, and he was logging in online 
regularly, so it expected him to have contacted Sainsburys again.
Mr L had also queried a £12 late payment fee in September 2018. Sainsburys said this had 
been charged because the 9 August 2018 statement required the minimum payment to be 
made by 3 September. Sainsburys hadnt received the minimum payment until 7 
September, so it had been correct to apply the late payment fee.
Sainsburys acknowledged that Mr L had asked for statements showing the amendments it 
had made. But it said it could only supply copy statements.
Sainsburys also recognised that it had received poor service from the complaints team 
whod failed to ring back with updates as requested, and also from the secure messaging 
team, whod given Mr L the wrong information on several times. It offered Mr L £200 
compensation.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this and confirmed to our investigator that he wished to pursue 
this. He said:
- He had no proof that the fraudulent sums had been refunded.  Sainsburys had 
provided three sets of statements all covering the same date and these didnt 
correlate with each other;
- Sainsburys had agreed it had missed fraudulent charges;
- The interest charged on the account was £970.37 but Sainsburys had only offered to 
refund £331.45;
- Hed made the minimum payment on time in September 2018, not late as 
Sainsburys said;
- He couldnt now go back to the merchant of the disputed £1,169.96 payment 
because of the length of time. But hed have reported it as a dispute promptly to 
Sainsburys if it had provided statements.
Mr L told our investigator that he wanted:
- Full written proof showing payments made and refunded, with dates;
- All the interest debited ie £970.37 not £331.45;
- £1,000 for the disputed £1,169.96 transaction;
- £394.94 which Sainsburys had offered for the two agreed fraudulent transactions 
which hadnt been refunded, ie £122.99 and £271.95;
- £200 compensation.
Our investigators view
The investigator recognised that the situation had been confusing and frustrating for Mr L. 
He said he didnt think Sainsburys procedure had been clear at all  though he didnt think 
Mr L had been over-charged unfairly. His review of Mr Ls account showed that Sainsburys had closed Mr Ls first credit card on 11 June 2018, and had written off the transactions it 
had marked as disputed, and issued a statement dated July 2018. It had then set up a new 
credit card account and had transferred over the genuine balance from June, minus the 
disputed transactions. Mr Ls new spending was then applied to the new account.
The investigator explained that this was an unusual process. Usually, a bank would credit 
the disputed transactions to the existing account, to show a transparent audit trail with the 
debits and credits. 
But hed found just three which hadnt been refunded. One of those, for £122.99, had been 
refunded in July 2018. Sainsburys final response had offered £271.95 for one of the others. 
The investigator considered the £1,169.96 transaction  but he didnt think Sainsburys need 
refund that. Hed asked Sainsburys for more information, which showed that Mr L had used 
that retailer before, and that the transaction had originally been declined as a possible fraud 
 but Mr L had confirmed that it was genuine, so the transaction had then gone through 
successfully. The investigator made it clear that he believed Mr L had disputed this 
transaction because of genuine concerns.  It had taken place several years earlier; was high 
value; and was close to the other disputed transactions.
In respect of the interest charged on Mr Ls account, the investigator considered that 
Sainsburys offer to refund interest between July and December 2018 was fair. He explained 
that Mr L had been logging onto his online banking regularly, so would have known the 
outstanding balance. And the interest had been charged on genuine purchases  it wasnt 
solely on disputed transactions. The investigator also pointed out that Mr L was obliged to 
maintain payments, as set out in the terms and conditions, even during a dispute.
The investigator also asked Mr L for evidence that hed paid the minimum payment from the 
August 2018 bill by the payment due date of 3 September. Mr Ls evidence showed a date of 
Monday 10 September, but with a reference of ON 06 SEP BDC.  The investigator 
accepted Mr L had sent the payment on 6 September, but this was late for 3 September. So 
the investigator didnt consider Sainsburys need refund Mr L with the £12 late payment fee.
But the investigator thought Sainsburys should remove the marker on Mr Ls credit file for 
this late payment. He said this because Mr L provided evidence that h had a perfect history 
of payments with other lenders. So the investigator accepted that the late payment in 
September 2018 was out of character, and a result of the wider circumstances in this 
complaint.
So the investigators conclusion was that Sainsburys should:
- Refund the £271.95 disputed transaction;
- Refund interest of £331.45 applied to the account from July to December 2018;
- Pay £200 compensation;
- Remove the marker it placed on Mr Ls credit file for the September 2018 late 
payment.
Mr Ls response
Mr L said he was very disappointed. He said:
- Sainsburys had admitted wrongdoing, so it was proportionate to withhold payment 
until it had been resolved. The only reason hed accrued interest on genuine 
payments was that Sainsburys hadnt provided a bill showing genuine information. It 
had only been possible to see that most of the interest had been on genuine 
purchases, years later;
- the responsibility should be on Sainsburys to prove hed authorised the £1,169.96 
payment;- hed asked for a clear breakdown of payments made, payments refunded, and dates, 
so he could check, but he still hadnt received this. He thought it was reasonable for 
Sainsburys clearly to prove what said it had done;
- he wasnt happy that the investigator had accepted Sainsburys statement that the 
September 2018 payment had arrived late, whereas his evidence showed it was 
made on the day it was due. Mr L said it had been due on 6 September, which was 
when hed made it;
- he didnt think the investigators view was impartial. There was a catalogue of errors 
by Sainsburys, but hed suffered damage to his credit file, had had to pay interest, 
had wasted days, and had to pay for a transaction which no-one could prove hed 
made. The £200 compensation didnt even cover the interest.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr L has found this a very frustrating experience, over a long period of time. 
Its entirely understandable that hed want to see for himself that the disputed transactions 
had been credited back to his account. Ive looked at the documents provided by 
Sainsburys, and it isnt at all clear from these what happened. This is largely due to the fact 
that Sainsburys hasnt shown credits on Mr Ls former account but just transferred the 
balance to his new account. This service cant order a bank to change its systems, but here, 
I consider the lack of clear accounting information provided by Sainsburys meant that Mr L 
suffered frustration, over a significant period of time. 
Transactions
However, trying to make sense from the statements which Sainsburys sent to us and to Mr 
L, the only apparent remaining transactions not dealt with in June 2018 were the three Ive 
listed above. One was refunded in July 2018, and Sainsburys agreed in June 2021 that it 
would refund the £271.95 transaction. If it hasnt already done so, I order Sainsburys to 
refund Mr L for this amount.
The transaction for £1,169.96 is more problematic. Sainsburys refused a refund on the 
grounds Mr L didnt challenge it at the time, but Mr L said he would have done if Sainsburys 
had sent him proper statements. Ive looked at Mr Ls account history and he did make 
payments to that retailer on previous occasions. 
But most important, the computer evidence provided by Sainsburys showed that the first 
time this was attempted, its anti-fraud systems had blocked it. This means that there was a 
request for confirmation from Mr L  and Sainsburys has provided evidence to show that he 
looks to have confirmed this. Ive also borne in mind that this transaction took place on 24 
May. All the other fraudulent transactions  over 20 of them, including the other two which 
werent refunded at the time - took place between 30 May and 2 June. This pattern of 
multiple transactions in a short space of time is much more typical of fraud, as a fraudster 
tries to maximise their gains before the card is blocked. So I consider its more likely than not 
that Mr L has forgotten about the transaction, but it was genuine. So I dont order 
Sainsburys to refund him.
InterestI recognise that Mr L didnt want to pay his credit card bill when he didnt have a clear picture 
of the transactions. And he may have hoped that not paying would incentivise Sainsburys to 
provide this. But the terms and conditions of the credit card, which provide for the charging 
of interest, dont make any exceptions when theres a dispute. So Sainsburys was entitled to 
continue to charge interest on the transactions.
Looking at fairness, however, I consider the lack of clarity in the information which 
Sainsburys provided to Mr L, means that Sainsburys should refund some of the interest. 
Sainsburys final response letter told Mr L that the interest charged between July 2018 and 
when Mr L paid off the full balance and interest in February 2020, was £970.37. It offered to 
refund the interest charged between July 2018 and December 2018. This is on the basis that 
in December 2018, Mr L set up a direct debit again, and had been logging in online so he 
could see his outstanding balance.
I consider Sainsburys offer here was a fair compromise. Sainsburys hadnt provided Mr L 
with clear information  but on the other hand, Mr L was aware of his balance by logging in. 
Apart from the £271.95 transaction which Ive listed above, all the balance, which was 
several thousand pounds, consisted of Mr Ls genuine transactions. Mr L said he was only 
able to see that most of the interest was on genuine payments some years later. But I think 
hed have known the amount of his own genuine spend. So I find that a cut-off date of 
December 2018 for the interest refund was fair and reasonable. This means Sainsburys is 
to refund Mr L with £331.45  which was the figure it quoted in its final response letter. Ive 
seen nothing from either side to make me think that this figure is incorrect  and so I think its 
fair to say that this is what Sainsburys should pay to put things right here.
Late payment
Mr L sent us evidence that he authorised payment on 6 September. This appeared to clear 
on 10 September, but Mr L has argued that it would have arrived immediately. But even if it 
had arrived on 6 September, the bill dated 9 August 2018 clearly states Payment due date 
03/09/2018. So the payment arrived late, and I dont require Sainsburys to refund Mr L with 
the £12 late payment fee.
Credit file
As a result of the late payment, Sainsburys put a marker on Mr Ls credit file. Mr L has 
explained that because of his business, this had a significant impact on him. He also sent us 
evidence showing that in other respects his credit file was excellent. 
Financial organisations have a duty to report credit information accurately. And here, its 
accurate that Mr L paid late in September 2018.  But having taken into account all the 
circumstances of this case, I find it would be fair and reasonable for Sainsburys to remove 
this marker. I recognise that this is unusual  because its accurate that Mr L paid late. But 
there were exceptional circumstances here because of Sainsburys ongoing failure to 
provide information about the disputed transactions and credits  and as Mr L points out, 
hes still not had full details of all the debits and credits relating to these. 
I recognise that there isnt a direct causal link between the frustration and the failure to pay 
on time. But I think removal of the marker would reflect that its likely that Mr L would have 
paid on time if this complaint hadnt arisen. 
Compensation
Mr L received poor service from Sainsburys. It didnt return calls, and provided him with 
incorrect information. It also failed to provide clear information about what it had done in relation to the disputed transactions  and over a long period of time. It simply wasnt 
possible for Mr L to be able to see what Sainsburys had and hadnt refunded, because of 
the way it handled the refunds. And there was one disputed transaction, for £271.95, which it 
didnt refund and should have done. 
So I consider Sainsburys should pay Mr L £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Sainsburys Bank Plc to:
- refund Mr L with the £271.95 disputed payment on 1 June 2018, if it hasnt already 
done so;
- pay Mr L £331.45 for the interest from July 2018 to December 2018, if it hasnt 
already done so;
- remove the credit file marker against Mr Ls name relating to the September 2018 
late payment;
- pay Mr L £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
I do not require Sainsburys to:
- refund Mr L for the £12 late payment fee for the late September 2018 payment;
- refund Mr L for the £1,169.96 disputed payment on 24 May 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman