DRN-4235606
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage Mr M1 and Mr M2 took out with Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. It was taken out to replace an existing mortgage held solely by Mr M2, and at the same 
time raise additional capital. Mr M1 and Mr M2 are dissatisfied with how long it took to 
complete the transaction. Theyre also unhappy with some of the accounting aspects of the 
transaction; in particular, changes in the balance owed on Mr M2s original mortgage 
between the start of the process and the completion.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M1 and Mr M2 and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr M1 and Mr M2 being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own 
words, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr M2 had taken out his sole mortgage during 2021, originally for £60,000. In the spring of 
2022, he and Mr MM applied to Barclays for a joint mortgage to repay the existing one and 
raise additional funds. They wanted to raise £125,000; at this point, the balance on the 
existing mortgage was around £58,500, so the application for the new mortgage was set at 
around £183,500. The transaction took much longer than anticipated, and Barclays accepts 
it is responsible for some of the delay. An offer was issued in June 2022, but a mix-up over 
which firm of solicitors was acting for Mr M1 and Mr M2 caused Barclays to send the offer to 
the wrong firm.
It took until October 2022 for a new offer to be issued, and when completion eventually took 
place on 20 October 2022, the amount paid to settle Mr M2s mortgage was just over 
£56,000. After settlement of the re-mortgage costs, the completion statement issued by the 
solicitors records the amount paid to Mr M1 and Mr M2 as just under £126,650. 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complained to Barclays about how long the transaction had taken. When 
the bank didnt respond within a reasonable time frame, Mr M1 and Mr M2 contacted us. By 
now their dissatisfaction was also with the way Barclays had dealt with the complaint. 
We explained to Mr M1 and Mr M2 that our rules didnt allow us to look at how Barclays had 
dealt with the complaint, only the underlying complaint itself. However, Barclays offered 
compensation of £100 for the poor complaint-handling, and Mr M1 and Mr M2 accepted that.
When our investigator assessed the core complaint, he recommended that Barclays should 
pay compensation of £300 (separate from and in addition to the £100 already agreed) for the 
delays in dealing with the re-mortgage transaction. Barclays agreed to this. It also provided a 
full reconciliation of Mr M2s mortgage from start to finish, demonstrating to the investigators 
satisfaction that all of the payments Mr M2 had made had been accounted for up to the 
redemption date.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They think the 
proposed compensation is too low; they also question why £58,500 was used as the starting 
point for working out how much they needed to borrow, and asked what happened to the 
difference between that sum and the actual redemption amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
The complaint falls into two broad areas:
the time it took for the re-mortgage to complete; and
the accounting aspects.
On the first part, I dont have to decide fault; Barclays accepts it made mistakes that 
contributed to the delay, at least in part. What that leaves for me to decide is whether the 
£300 proposed by the investigator is fair compensation in the circumstances. Having 
carefully considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I believe it is. Its 
consistent with the level of award we generally make in broadly similar circumstances, and 
certainly more in proportion with the events than the £10,000 (each) that Mr M1 and Mr M2 
initially asked for, or even the £1,000 theyve now said theyd accept.
As to the second part of the complaint, I can understand why Mr M1 and Mr M2 are 
concerned that that not all of the money has been correctly accounted for, and they might 
have been encouraged to borrow more than they needed. Ive looked at all of the relevant 
accounting material, and whilst its not my role to carry out a forensic audit, Ive not found 
any glaring anomalies that would suggest error or wrong-doing on Barclays part. I remind 
the parties that the figures Im using have been rounded.
The reconciliation statement of Mr M2s sole mortgage appears to be completely in order, to 
the extent that the closing amount received matches the amount showing on the solicitors 
completion statement as having been paid to Barclays. In fact, this amount, just over 
£56,000, resulted in a credit on the mortgage account of around £630, which Barclays 
refunded a few days later, so isnt reflected in the completion statement. If Mr M1 and Mr M2 
arent sure what happened to the refunded overpayment, their first port of enquiry would be 
the solicitor.As to whether they borrowed too much, there has to be a starting point when the application 
begins. Their objective at the outset was to repay the existing mortgage and raise £125,000, 
so the starting point when the application begins has to be the balance owing on the existing 
mortgage at that time. That was around £58,500, so it makes perfect sense for the amount 
applied for to be that sum, plus £125,000.
It couldnt be known at that point how long it would take for the re-mortgage to complete, but 
it could reasonably be inferred that the actual amount needed to settle Mr M2s mortgage 
when completion did take place would be less than £58,500, because he was continuing to 
make monthly payments in the meantime. Unless specifically requested by the applicants to 
do so, I wouldnt expect Barclays unilaterally to reduce the amount of the new mortgage to 
reflect the reduction in the balance of Mr M2s existing mortgage. 
What I would expect is for Barclays, having offered to lend the amount applied for, then to 
release the money it has agreed to lend, and for any additional surplus left over, once the 
existing mortgage has been repaid and the solicitors costs and disbursements have been 
paid, to be reflected in the completion statement. Again, Im not an auditor, but a cursory 
examination of the figures on the completion statement indicate that this is what has 
happened. 
I appreciate Mr M1 and Mr M2 might not be convinced that all of the figures are correct. But 
not being sure if things are correct isnt the same as having good reason, supported by hard 
evidence, to believe they are incorrect. 
But that doesnt mean Mr M1 and Mr M2 have to take my word that everything appears 
correct. If they have a real and substantive belief (based on something other than frustration 
at not being able to verify things themselves) that something is wrong with the accounting, it 
is open to him to arrange for the mortgage accounts (and presumably the solicitors 
completion statement) to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
We cant consider a complaint against a solicitor. If an audit was made of the completion 
statement which revealed errors (and to be clear, nothing I say here should be taken as 
implying that would happen) Mr M1 and Mr M2 would need to take that up with the firm of 
solicitors, and then with the Legal Ombudsman if need be.
The evidence of an audit on the mortgage accounts could be used as the basis for a new 
complaint against Barclays, but not as the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the 
latter point because Barclays would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be 
given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that 
were to their detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of 
the audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, the available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that Barclays has done 
anything wrong in its accounting on this transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be fairly and reasonably determined by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc paying Mr M1 and Mr M2 £300 compensation. I make no other order 
or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman