DRN-3274737
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in 2008 by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R had a fee free account with HSBC before she took out the AA, so she knew these 
were available, and she has explained that she was persuaded in a phone call to have the 
AA. So, I think its more likely than not she knew she had a choice whether to open the AA or 
not and she chose to do so on based on the information HSBC gave her.
Mrs R says that HSBC recommended the AA to her, and while HSBC says it didnt, Ill 
assume that a recommendation was made as this is to Mrs Rs advantage and doesnt affect 
the outcome of my decision.
When recommending the AA to Mrs R, HSBC was required to ensure the account was 
suitable for her and provide enough information for Mrs R to make an informed decision.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mrs R travelled regularly and took out an overdraft, so she 
was able to use two of the main benefits of the AA. She later also benefitted from a discount 
on a loan she took out. So, I think its more likely than not that the AA was suitable for her. 
Mrs R also says that the AA was described to her in detail during the sales call. And HSBC 
has provided evidence that it sent a welcome pack with the information about the account, 
and a series of subsequent updates including about the substantial change to the cost and 
terms and conditions of the AA in 2014.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs R had enough information about the cost and 
benefits of the AA at the time of the sale and subsequently.
Id now like to address the core part of Mrs Rs complaint which is that she says she was told 
by HSBC in the original sales call in 2008 that the AAs benefits included redundancy 
insurance cover. She says this was the main benefit that sold the AA to her and it was only 
when she tried to make a claim that she realised this cover wasnt included in the AA.
Ive thought very carefully about this. While I dont doubt Mrs Rs honest recollections about 
the sales call, I think its more likely than not that her memory is mistaken.
I say this because there is no mention of redundancy cover in any of the multiple 
communications she received from the time of sale to when she closed it. And I think that if 
this was the most important benefit she thought she had, she would have noticed that it 
wasnt mentioned when she first received the welcome pack or in any of the many 
subsequent communications.
Ive also done many cases about packaged bank accounts and Ive not seen another 
example of anyone being told that redundancy cover was included in the AA benefits when it 
wasnt there.
So, overall, although I know Mrs R will be disappointed, I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman