DRN-4075931
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2022 Ms R purchased a second hand car from a dealership. She paid a deposit of 
£1500 using her Halifax credit card and paid the balance of £1795 by bank transfer.
Soon after getting the car Ms R had to replace all four tyres because the existing tyres 
werent roadworthy. Soon after this the car broke down. Ms R paid for repairs totalling 
£1326.00.
Ms R contacted Halifax in June 2022. Halifax raised a chargeback claim under goods not as 
described for the £1500 Ms R had paid on her credit card.
The dealership who sold the car to Ms R disputed the chargeback. It said Ms R hadnt 
reported the issues to them and that they hadnt been given the opportunity to inspect the 
car and repair any faults.
Halifax advised Ms R that the dealership had disputed the chargeback claim. Ms R told 
Halifax that she wanted a full refund of the cost of the car and not just the deposit. Halifax 
therefore passed the claim to the section 75 team to review.
Halifax declined the section 75 claim. It said that because Ms R had the car repaired without 
giving the merchant the opportunity to repair the fault, it didnt think there had been a breach 
of contract.
Ms R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Halifax had acted fairly when it 
declined the section 75 claim.
Ms R didnt agree. She said there had been a breach of contract because the tyres werent 
legal when the car was sold to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Ms Rs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Halifaxs response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. If they 
arent then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ms R has said that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because it was supplied with tyres 
which werent roadworthy. Shes also said that the car broke down soon after it was supplied 
and that it needed significant repairs.
Ms R purchased the car on 21 April 2022 with a new MOT of the same date. Ms R had a flat 
tyre on 29 April 2022 and took the car to a tyre specialist who advised her that all four tyres 
needed to be replaced.
Ms R has provided an invoice from the tyre specialist dated 29 April 2022 showing that all 
four tyres were replaced at a a cost of £676.33.
I appreciate that Ms R feels that she shouldnt have had to replace the tyres so soon after 
getting the car. However, tyres are a wear and tear item on a car and the fact that the car 
may have been supplied with tyres which had very little tread left in them doesnt make the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. Tyres are checked at an MOT, and I can see that Ms Rs car 
passed an MOT on the same day that it was supplied to her, so I cant conclude that the 
tyres were illegal or unroadworthy at the point of supply. For these reasons, Im not 
persuaded that there was a breach of contract arising from the condition of the tyres.
Ive gone on to consider whether the issues which caused the car to break down were faults 
which made the car of unsatisfactory quality. I can see that Ms R took the car to a garage for 
repairs on or around 8 June 2022. The garage repaired the car and provided a report dated 
22 June 2022. The report identifies a number of issues with the car including issues with the 
timing chain, thermostat housing and exhaust. The report states that the issues wouldve 
been present at the point of supply.
There are some observations I need to make here. Firstly, Im not able to treat the report 
from the garage as an independent expert report. This is because the author of the report is 
the garage chosen by Ms R to carry out the repairs. For a report to be independent  and for 
me to be able to attach weight to it as evidence  the report would need to be completed by 
a party who is independent of both Ms R and the dealership. This isnt the case here.
Further, and in any event, the report doesnt say what caused the car to break down. The 
issues identified in the report  the timing chain, the thermostat housing and the exhaust  
are all component parts of a car which are susceptible to general wear and tear. Taking into 
account the age and mileage of Ms Rs car, I think its more likely that the car required the 
repairs for issues which were due to wear and tear, as opposed to an inherent fault.
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. Because of this, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract 
arising from the quality of the car.
As Ive explained above, in order for a section 75 claim to be successful, there needs to be 
evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. There isnt enough evidence to 
show either here. Therefore, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman