DRN-4141462
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited defaulted her accounts after 
writing to the wrong address.
What happened
Miss B has three student loan accounts from the 90s, which were sold to Erudio in 2014.
Each year, Miss B successfully deferred her loans  until 2021. Miss B says in 2021 she 
sent her deferment with an update of her address by post, but Erudio say they didnt get it.
The deferment deadline passed. Aside from two deferment reminder texts sent some 
months before the deadline, Erudio only contacted Miss B by post, to her old address. They 
continued to write to it over the following months when they didnt hear back. They didnt try 
any other methods of communication, nor perform any checks or traces to see if the address 
they were using was up to date. Miss B didnt get their letters, and the account defaulted.
In 2022, Miss B found out what had happened and complained. She explained she hadnt 
got Erudios letters. She provided copies of what shed sent in 2021, including evidence she 
was below the income threshold for repaying her student loans. She also provided a 
deferment application for 2022, along with evidence she was still below the threshold.
Erudio said they hadnt got her letter at the time with her deferral and address change, and 
werent responsible for the postal service losing post. They said Miss B hadnt updated her 
address online and hadnt contacted them to check the status or make any repayments, so 
they felt they were right to end the deferment period and later default the accounts. They 
offered Miss B £150 compensation for dealing with her poorly over the phone.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They thought 
Erudio had not made sufficient efforts to make sure Miss B was aware of what was going on 
before taking serious actions against her.
Erudio asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh. They said they mainly correspond 
by post and that was their choice. They referred to other cases which hadnt been upheld. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at not just the letter of the law and regulations, but also what is good 
industry practice and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
This case is quite finely balanced. On the one hand, Miss B has provided scans of 
contemporaneously dated documents which indicate she applied for deferral in time and 
updated her address. And while Erudio may not be responsible for the postal service losing 
post, neither is Miss B. With that said, I note that Miss B used an old form which had an old, 
now wrong address printed on it, so its possible she may have sent it to that wrong address 
by mistake. I cant know for certain whether she sent her letter to the right place or not.
But even if I assume that Miss B made such a mistake, and that it wasnt a case of the postal 
service or Erudio misplacing the letter, it seems that both sides share some responsibility for 
what happened. Erudio didnt take any reasonable steps to make sure that they were writing 
to the most up-to-date address, or that Miss B had actually received their correspondence. 
Even when Erudio hadnt had any reply from Miss B in months and severe consequences 
were looming, they continued to send letters without checking things. Despite the fact that 
Miss B had kept her accounts updated for many years and this was most unusual, and 
despite the fact that they knew it was in their customers best interests to fulfil her deferment 
or at least avoid a default, Erudio didnt pick up that something was likely wrong, nor do 
anything to mitigate the likely problem.
For example, Erudio could have run an address trace  which is a standard practice in the 
industry. Or they could have got in touch with Miss B directly by phone or email, which they 
had on file. It may well be that Erudio now prefer to send things by post, and there may not 
be a specific rule telling them to use another particular contact method. Im not telling Erudio 
to change their processes across the board. But Erudio are required to treat customers fairly, 
and that will sometimes mean breaking from the normal process or doing things theyre not 
technically compelled to do. I dont think that their actions here  or inactions  constitute 
good industry practice, nor a particularly reasonable approach to this situation.
Given the seriousness of the situation, it wouldve been much more reasonable for Erudio to 
check Miss Bs address or try to speak with her directly in case their letters werent getting 
through for any reason. After all, letters can simply get lost in the post, too. 
But instead of making any reasonable efforts to check Miss B was actually aware of what 
was happening, Erudio instead moved quickly to default her. I dont think Erudio showed 
Miss B any reasonable consideration or forbearance. And a default doesnt seem fair when 
Miss B ultimately didnt receive the proper notice, was unaware it was coming, and didnt get 
the proper chance to avoid it.
I take Erudios point that Miss B didnt receive confirmation her deferment had gone through, 
and she didnt get in touch after her letter to check in. But equally, there was an onus on 
Erudio to make sure Miss B got the proper updates and notices. Its also notable that in 
2021, Erudio stopped sending their usual emails, so Miss B had reason to think they just 
werent getting in touch as much anymore. And given that Miss Bs deferments had been 
accepted every year for a long time, she didnt have a good reason to think shed be rejected 
on the same circumstances. Again, it seems that both sides got things a bit wrong here.
The question, then, is what wouldve most likely happened had things gone right. Miss B has 
provided comprehensive evidence that she was below the income threshold in 2021 and 
2022. Had she been made aware that her letter had not arrived, it seems most likely she 
would have provided the necessary evidence again for her continued deferment.Since both sides share some responsibility for things going wrong, I think the fair way to 
resolve this is to put the accounts in the situation theyd be in had things gone right  i.e. to 
treat the accounts as if Miss Bs 2021 and 2022 deferment applications were successful.
Another way to think about this is that a key tenet of these student loans is that Miss B would 
only make repayments once she had a certain amount of income. From what I can see, she 
is a single mother whos been well below the income threshold. I must consider whether it 
would be fair for Miss B to be made to repay her loans before she was really supposed to, 
and before she had the appropriate income to do so, because of a potential oversight on her 
part which may or may not have happened, compounded by Erudios lack of reasonable 
care or forbearance. I dont think thats fair in these circumstances  I think its much fairer to 
try to put things back to the way they shouldve been.
Erudio referred to two other cases, which they hadnt lost. Erudio should know that we look 
at each case on its own merits, and our decisions do not set a precedent in the way they 
may be implying. With that said, it may be worth noting that one of the cases they referred to 
involves a very different situation to this one, that the other has so far only had an informal 
opinion from an investigator and not an ombudsmans formal decision, and that Erudio have 
had other cases about this sort of issue upheld against them in the past.
Lastly, Ive taken into account the poor customer service which Erudio gave Miss B, such as 
handling things badly on the phone and not getting back to her when they were supposed to. 
I think the £150 compensation theyve offered is fair to put that right. I dont require them to 
pay any further compensation, since  as I noted above  I accept that Erudio were not 
solely responsible for things going wrong with Miss Bs account.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to put these loan accounts in the position they 
wouldve been in had Miss Bs 2021 and 2022 deferment applications been successful.
That means reinstating each terminated loan. Or, if Erudio are no longer able to do so, then 
it means making arrangements so the account is treated as if it had been reinstated. This 
includes honouring the original terms and conditions and removing any related negative 
information from Miss Bs credit file.
It also means backdating the 2021 and 2022 deferments, or otherwise making arrangements 
to treat the loans as having deferred in 2021 and 2022. And it means making arrangements 
such that Miss B can continue to apply for deferment for the upcoming 2023 to 2024 period, 
with a deadline starting from at least two months from the date of this final decision. I would 
advise Miss B to make sure that she has given Erudio her latest contact details, to make 
sure she applies within the deadline, and to look out for correspondence about the matter.
Lastly, Erudio should make sure that Miss B receives the £150 compensation they offered. 
So if their previous cheques are no longer valid, then they should reissue the payment.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint, and direct Erudio Student Loans 
Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman