DRN-3383589
The complaint
Mr B and Mr K complain that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly 
increased the premiums for their pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mr K had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Casualty. Without any notice the 
monthly direct debit increased from £85 to £136 and its now over £140 a month. Thats 
much more than the renewal quote theyd accepted. They were told thered been a mistake 
and previous claims history hadnt been taken into account. The correct premium should 
have been £136.28 each month. And the remaining premiums had been adjusted to cover 
the difference.
If theyd known in time Mr B and Mr K say theyd have been able to compare the increased 
renewal price with other providers. The increase seemed to be related to a claim that was 
submitted after the policy renewal. And even though Mr B and Mr K had complained 
Casualty had only offered a reduced premium of £105.52 a month going forwards. 
Before accepting Mr B and Mr K queried what the revised annual premium would be. But 
Casualty didnt respond  even though they asked again. And they feel Casualty should 
apologise and honour the original quote of £85.17 per month and refund any extra theyve 
paid.
Casualty said the premium had increased due to a large claim for treatment in the previous 
policy year received 3 days after the policy renewal. The pet insurance policy gave the 
insurers the right to review the premium at renewal. But as a gesture of goodwill itd offered 
a premium of £105.52 moving forwards. 
Mr B and Mr K werent satisfied with Casualtys response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She looked at whether Casualty had increased the 
premiums fairly and reasonably. She said the policy terms stated the premium was based on 
the information provided to Casualty. And it might change if any of the details changed or 
Mr B and Mr K made a claim.
Our investigator said the claim submitted just after renewal was for treatment that took place 
before the renewal date. And she felt Casualty had acted fairly in adjusting the premium to 
take into account the altered risk after it became aware. The policy had been renewed and 
Casualty had settled the claim. But if Mr B and Mr K had sought alternative cover its likely 
the treatment wouldve been considered a pre-existing condition. And the new insurance 
provider wouldve declined any claim in relation to it. 
So she thought Casualty had done enough by offering a reduced premium. And she wouldnt 
be asking it to do anything more. 
Mr B and Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. They still hadnt received a response to 
their emails. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties and upset Mr B and Mr K have experienced. It must 
have been an unpleasant surprise when a larger than expected monthly premium was 
debited from their account. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr B and Mr K and 
Casualty have said.
Firstly its important to realise its not the role of this service to tell a business how to work 
out the risk its insuring  or what to charge for that risk. So I cant say whether Casualtys 
premiums are too high or too low or that a different amount should be charged in the future.
The terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy allow it to alter the premium. Id expect 
a business to regularly review its pricing models to remain competitive. And Id expect it to 
consider any changes to the risk its covering, including any increased risk following 
treatment for an illness or condition.
Ive looked at the information provided by Casualty to show how its calculated the renewal 
premium. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B and Mr K have been treated differently 
from any other policyholder in a similar situation. So I cant say Casualty has acted unfairly 
when it determined the new premium for the pet insurance policy. Or when it recalculated 
the premium when it became aware of a claim for treatment submitted just after the renewal 
date  but for a treatment thatd already taken place in the previous policy year.
Casualty wasnt aware Mr B and Mr Ks pet was undergoing treatment when it issued the 
renewal documentation. And its confirmed it wouldve recalculated the premiums in the same 
way if itd been aware before it issued the renewal notice. So I cant say Casualty has acted 
unfairly or made any mistakes in how its calculated the renewal premiums based upon the 
updated information itd received. 
Generally the more risk the insurer is taking to provide cover, the more the cover will cost. 
And I think the policy documentation makes it clear the cost of insurance may change 
depending upon a number of factors, including any claims made against the policy.
But I do accept it must have been a surprise to Mr B and Mr K if they hadnt received the 
adjustment notice. So Ive checked to make sure Casualty followed its procedures properly 
when informing Mr B and Mr K about the change in premiums.
I can see it sent the first renewal documents to Mr B and Mr K on 18 February 2021 to 
inform them the policy would renew on 15 March. The monthly premium was calculated at 
£85.17. 
When Casualty received a claim on 17 March for treatment that took place between 11 and 
12 March, it recalculated the premium. And as Ive explained above, I cant say Casualty 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by reacting to the new information about treatment thatd 
taken place at the end of the previous policy year. 
The new policy schedule was issued on 6 April, more than 14 days before the premium was 
collected on 24 April to allow the change to take place in line with direct debit regulations. 
But it seems Mr B and Mr K didnt receive the notification that the premium was increasing. 
So I can understand their surprise and upset when a much larger amount went out of their 
bank account.In response to their complaint Casualty issued a final response letter on 5 August. And it 
offered to reduce the monthly premium to £105.52 moving forwards as a gesture of goodwill 
if Mr B and Mr K were happy to accept. Having made the offer, I wouldnt expect Casualty to 
chase Mr B and Mr K for a response.
I presume Mr B and Mr K received the offer as I understand they tried to contact Casualty to 
get a clearer picture of what the new annual premium would be. But they say they never 
heard back from Casualty despite repeating the request on two other occasions.
Its clear some of the communication between Mr B and Mr K and their insurer didnt arrived 
at the intended destination. Mr K says he did receive some of the emails from Casualty. And 
he doesnt know why they didnt get the notification that their premium had been 
recalculated. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest the correspondence from either party wasnt sent as 
theyve indicated. Unfortunately its not always possible to find out why emails havent been 
received or viewed, even if the address details are correct. 
I realise Mr B and Mr K believe they lost the chance to compare their higher premium with 
other providers. But Casualty only became aware of the claim after the policy had been 
renewed. And without prior knowledge of the pending claim it wouldnt have been able to 
issue the adjusted renewal notice until after the renewal date.
Ive considered whether Mr B and Mr K were disadvantaged by this. I understand Casualty 
accepted and paid their claim after the policy renewed. But most pet insurance policies dont 
provide cover for pre-existing conditions. So if Mr B and Mr K had tried to claim for any 
treatment related to the condition with another insurer its likely it wouldve been declined. 
Although the Casualty premium was recalculated following the successful claim I think Mr B 
and Mr K have benefitted from renewing their pet insurance policy.
I understand the complaints investigator dealing with this matter tried to get in touch with 
Mr K and Mr B about a month go to re-offer the reduced premium. And Im sure if they get 
back in touch with their insurance provider they should be able to discuss the offer in more 
detail.
But based on what Ive seen I think Casualty has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And its offered a reduced premium as 
a gesture of goodwill. I realise Mr B and Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. But I 
cant uphold their complaint. And I wont be asking Casualty to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman