DRN-2723986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HDI Global Specialty SE declined a claim for storm damage on 
their buildings insurance policy after part of their property collapsed.
What happened
The gable end of Mr and Mrs Bs property collapsed during strong winds and they had to 
take refuge with their neighbours. The falling wall also damaged the attached garage and the 
local council had to arranged emergency scaffolding to support the structure.
When Mr and Mrs B reported the damage to their insurer, HDI sent someone who walked 
around the bungalow but didnt go inside to inspect the loft space. They said the damage 
wasnt covered as the roof had been re-tiled with tiles that were too heavy for the structure.
But Mr and Mrs B said that wasnt true. The roof had been retiled with like-for-like 
replacements. So they instructed their own surveyor who carried out a full inspection of the 
roof space and said it was nothing to do with the re-tiling. HDI sent a structural engineer and 
then sent another surveyor to visit the property. 
Mr and Mrs B were given conflicting reasons for the cause of the collapse. And theyve had 
to spend a considerable amount of their life savings to put things right. They dont think HDI 
acted fairly in declining their claim.
HDI said itd considered the comments of all the appointed experts. And it didnt consider the 
replacement roof tiles were the likely cause of the damage. But there hadnt been a storm 
around the time of the claim. And itd been declined as the damage hadnt been caused by 
an insured peril.
HDI said itd asked for a further report which said the most likely cause was gradual 
deterioration. And that was excluded under the terms of the policy. HDI said itd dealt with 
the claim in a timely manner. And it wasnt the loss adjusters responsibility to offer any 
advice about the scaffolding thatd been erected by the council. The claim had been declined 
and it couldnt consider any costs under the terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with HDIs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He checked the weather conditions at the time the 
damage occurred. But there was no evidence to suggest there were storm conditions in the 
period around the collapse. So he felt HDI had correctly rejected the claim for storm 
damage.  
Our investigator could see Mr and Mrs Bs policy included accidental damage cover. But it 
was intended for damage caused by a one-off unexpected event. It didnt cover any damage 
that was gradual. He felt it was probable the collapse had been caused by the wind. Itd 
gradually been pulling on the wall, weakening it. 
Our investigator said the most likely cause of the collapse was age-related wear and tear 
and gradual movement from wind speeds. And that was specifically excluded under Mr and 
Mrs Bs buildings insurance policy. So he wouldnt be asking HDI to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the stressful situation Mr and Mrs B have been through. It mustve 
been very worrying when part of their house collapsed. And Im pleased to see the 
emergency services and local council officer were able to respond quickly. 
I can appreciate how concerned Mr and Mrs B wouldve been when they were told the claim 
for storm damage wouldnt be covered. And Id like to thank their relative, Mr F, who 
represented Mr and Mrs B in this complaint. 
But Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened. And having done so Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
When deciding whether I think HDIs decision to decline the claim is fair I have to begin by 
deciding whether an insured event has taken place. The insured event would be the cause 
of the damage. And it would have to be listed as an insured peril in the policy document. 
Otherwise Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
Ive begun by looking at whether HDI acted reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim for 
storm damage. When considering such a claim I need to consider three main questions:
1. Is there evidence there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Im only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes. So the 
first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a storm at the 
relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have been any 
damage caused by a storm.
The weather reports for the period around the time of the collapse show there were 
occasional gusts of winds and some rain. But they didnt reach the level wed normally 
consider strong enough to be classed as a storm. And the reports provided by the various 
experts havent presented anything to suggest there were storm conditions at the time that 
mightve been responsible for the damage.
So Im afraid I cant say HDI acted unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim for storm 
damage. The weather conditions dont indicate there were storm conditions. So it follows 
that a storm cant have caused the damage. 
As Ive explained for the claim to be successful the damage must be caused by an insured 
peril. And I can see Mr and Mrs Bs policy also includes cover for accidental damage. This is 
defined as unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden and external means.
The initial inspection raised concerns that the timber carcass of the roof hadnt been 
strengthened to accommodate the new tiles put in place about five years ago. But a subsequent fuller investigation of the loft space confirmed the replacement tiles had a 
similar weight and there was no obvious problem with the roof structure that wouldve 
caused the failure. Later reports also dismissed the re-tiling as a likely main cause for the 
collapse.
Due to the extent of the damage a structural engineer was appointed. Mr and Mrs B also 
commissioned their own report at the same time. But after considering all of the information 
HDI declined the claim because it couldnt find evidence of damage consistent with an 
insured peril. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say they were given slightly different information following the 
various visits from HDIs appointed representatives and their own independent report. And 
they feel that HDI only relied on the final report before declining their claim. 
But I think HDI was entitled to rely on the opinion of its structural engineer to decline the 
claim. The engineer reviewed the various reports and liaised with an experienced colleague 
onsite who provided additional photos and information about the damage. This was then 
discussed and considered before the final view was arrived at. 
The engineers report concluded there was good evidence the gable wall had been slowly 
leaning for some time. When the roof had been re-tiled the new tiles had been cut to suit the 
lean. And itd likely reached the point of no return. 
I can see the independent report also commented on pressure causing the wall to weaken 
over a number of years. And the various reports suggest the wind highlighted an existing 
problem rather than being the main cause of the damage. 
Although other suggestions have been proposed theres no actual evidence that any one 
event was the main cause of the damage. Its probable that the wall had been gradually 
weakening and leaning and eventually collapsed. As the damage is most likely to have 
occurred gradually I cant say it was sudden and unexpected. And in the general exclusions 
section of the buildings insurance policy it states HDI will not pay for loss or damage which 
happens gradually over a period of time or is caused as a result of, or arising from, wear and 
tear.
Ive not seen anything thats thrown sufficient doubt on those conclusions to make me think 
HDI should change its position. I think HDI has shown its more likely than not that there were 
existing problems. The wind highlighted the situation. But it wasnt the main cause of the 
damage.
Ive looked carefully at the various reports. And Ive listened to the call between Mr and 
Mrs Bs independent expert and the underwriters. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
that HDI made an error in attributing the cause of the property damage to a gradual cause. 
Thats not something thats covered under the terms and conditions of their buildings 
insurance policy. So I cant fairly ask HDI to approve the claim.
I appreciate how much its cost Mr and Mrs B to put things right and the impact this has had 
on them. But based on what Ive seen I think HDI responded quickly. It delivered its decision 
in just over a week. And having declined the claim I cant ask HDI to consider any costs 
Mr and Mrs B mightve incurred, such as the scaffolding erected by the council.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above Im satisfied HDI has acted fairly and reasonably. And I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman