DRN-3929441
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc placed blocks on transactions she attempted to 
make. She also complains about the level of service she received from them.
What happened
On 2 June 2022, Miss K attempted to make a transaction for £10,000 to a forex broker. She 
says the payment didnt go through after Santander sent her an authorisation code via text 
message. She says she didnt know why the payment wasnt successful and whether the 
issue was with Santander or the merchant. She explained Santander didnt contact her as 
they normally do by text message to verify if shed made the payment, so she was led to 
believe the issue may be at the merchants end.
Miss K says she contacted Santander via the online chat service as she couldnt get through 
on the phone. She says she was reassured by the chat adviser that the issue wasnt with 
Santander and was with the merchant. She explained that she confirmed this with the chat 
adviser who reassured her that she couldnt even see any attempts to make any payments, 
so it couldnt have been blocked by Santander. 
She says she even expressed to the chat adviser that she found that difficult to believe as 
Santander had sent her an authorisation code via text message, so they should have a 
record of it. She says the chat adviser checked again and reassured her that there werent 
any transactions logged on their system and insisted the issue was with the merchant.
Based on the information Miss K was provided by the chat adviser, she says she spent the 
whole day arguing with the merchant that the reason the payment failed was at their end. 
She explained that after a lot of back and forth with the merchant, spending a lot of time and 
energy and escalating a complaint, they asked her to contact Santander again.
Miss K says she contacted Santander via the online chat service again and this time she 
was told that the transaction couldve been blocked and asked her to ring the relevant team 
to confirm. She then spoke to the relevant team to have the blocks removed. She 
successfully completed the transaction while she was on the phone with Santander.
A few minutes after, Miss K attempted another transaction with the same merchant, but this 
was also blocked. Miss K was unhappy with this as shed just spoken to Santander to have 
the blocks removed. She says she had to contact Santander again to have the blocks 
removed. She also raised a complaint as she didnt feel it was right for Santander to block 
payments that have been authorised to the same merchant moments prior. She also said 
that like the previous time, she didnt get any alerts or text messages to tell her that it was 
Santander that had blocked her transaction.
Miss K explained that she tried to make another transaction to the same merchant a few 
days later and that was also blocked. She was unhappy that all the transactions she was 
making to this merchant were being consistently blocked despite her previously confirming to 
Santander that these transactions were genuine. She said she tried to make another 
transaction on 30 June 2022 to the same merchant for a much smaller amount but this was 
also blocked. She explained the persistent blocking caused her significant issues and loss of 
trading days.
She also said she faced embarrassment and had to apologise to the merchant as it was 
Santander that was blocking the payments, when she had complained that the issue was 
with them based on the information the chat adviser had given her. 
Santander initially told Miss K that their security systems attempted to contact her, but since 
she didnt have a home telephone number, they couldnt reach her. They explained their 
security system will try to initiate contact via a variety of methods to prevent fraudsters 
accessing customers accounts and on some occasions, they wont attempt any contact at 
all. In these situations, theyd expect the customer to contact them to query why a 
transaction wasnt successful.
They said they couldnt guarantee that this wont happen again and suggested that Miss K 
updated her contact details if she has a home telephone number to prevent the same 
situation occurring again. While they appreciated the problems this situation caused Miss K, 
they said it wasnt due to a mistake on their part and confirmed they didnt make any errors.
Miss K remained unhappy with the response and wrote to Santander. She didnt think it was 
acceptable that Santander doesnt notify their customer that theyve blocked the payment. 
She questioned how a customer would know whether its Santander thats blocked the 
transaction or if it was an IT failure or an issue with the merchant. She thought it was unfair 
for Santander not to notify its customer that a block had been placed.
She also felt that it was unreasonable and impractical for Santander to make it a requirement 
to have a landline as she couldve been making this transaction from anywhere in the world.  
She reiterated that in the past shes always received a text message from Santander asking 
her to confirm if she was the one making the transaction, but this didnt happen during all the 
transactions she made to the forex broker in June 2022.
She explained that shed spent several days trying to make these transactions due to the 
lengthy call and chat waiting times. She said this caused her a lot of stress and she suffered 
a financial loss. She found Santander had trivialised the extent of the issues shed 
experienced. She felt she couldnt rely on the information she was being given by Santander 
and shed lost confidence in them. She felt that any checks that Santander complete need to 
be balanced, reasonable and logical and not cause distress and issues for customers trying 
to access their funds.
Santander looked into Miss Ks concerns again but explained their decision remained 
unchanged. They said that fraudulent transactions affect all financial institutions and not just 
them. They explained that their system checks transactions on accounts and if it suspects 
any transactions to be fraudulent, it will refer the transaction to their security department for 
authentication. They said there are number of reasons why a transaction maybe referred, 
and they couldnt provide the specific scenarios. 
They explained that when payments are highlighted by their security system for 
authentication, it will review all the available information to determine whether or not to make 
automated contact and, in this case, it wasnt possible due to the nature of concerns. They 
also confirmed that they had provided Miss K with correct information that the first payment 
wasnt stopped by Santander due to a security issue, but instead due to incorrect card 
details being entered when the payment was processed. They confirmed all subsequent 
attempts were stopped by them due to security concerns. They also apologised for the 
inconvenience caused.Miss K referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that Santander had given Miss K incorrect information during the online chat about her 
first transaction. He said that Santanders records showed that the first transaction was 
unsuccessful because Miss K entered incorrect details and the further blocks were due to 
security concerns. He said that the terms and conditions allow Santander to refuse a 
payment if they reasonably suspect fraud. Since he didnt think theyd made an error, he 
didnt recommend any compensation.
Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander are required to take reasonable steps to protect their customers from fraud and 
scams. They might be held liable for any foreseeable losses if they breach their duty of care. 
Most financial institutions, including Santander, use common tools such as automated 
security systems to meet their obligations.
Ive looked at Santanders records to understand the transactions Miss K made to the forex 
broker and the reasons why they were stopped. Miss Ks first attempt on 2 June 2022 at 
7pm was declined due to entering the wrong card details. She made a second attempt on 
the same day at 8.03pm. This was transaction was blocked by Santander due to security 
concerns.
Miss K spoke to Santander and her payment was successfully made the following day on 3 
June 2022 at 12.37pm. A few minutes after Miss K attempted to make two more transactions 
at 12.43pm and 12.45pm both of which were blocked due to security concerns. She spoke to 
Santander again and successfully made the transaction at 1.14pm the same day.
Following this, the next transaction Miss K made was on 8 June 2022 at 3.45pm. Santander 
blocked this transaction again for security concerns. Miss K successfully made this 
transaction a few minutes later at 3.51pm. I can see Miss K made a transaction on 1 July 
2022 at 12am. This transaction was successful and wasnt blocked by Santander.
Given that all of Miss Ks attempted transactions were stopped, I can understand why this 
was frustrating and inconvenient for her. However, this doesnt mean that Santander have 
done something wrong by blocking these transactions. Based on the system records Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the blocks were placed on these transaction as a result of them triggering 
as potentially fraudulent.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ks account allows Santander to refuse a request for 
authorisation. It further explains that Santander can withdraw or suspend use of Miss Ks 
card if they believe that this is necessary for security reasons and to prevent suspected 
unauthorised or fraudulent use of her card. 
Although Miss K had confirmed on 3 June 2022, that it was a genuine transaction, it doesnt 
naturally mean that all transactions made to the same merchant are also genuine. It also 
doesnt rule out the possibility of Miss K being a victim of a scam. 
I can see the transactions that were stopped were for large amounts and were made within a 
few days of each other. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Santander flagged these transactions for security concerns. The very nature of these types of security checks means 
that customers may be caused some distress and inconvenience. I dont think that 
Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably in blocking these transactions.
I understand Miss Ks point that Santander shouldve tried to contact her to verify the 
transactions were genuine. Shes explained theyve done this in the past by sending her a 
text message. This wouldve made it clear to her that the payments were being stopped by 
Santander and not due to other issues.
I agree this wouldve made things easier for Miss K, but Santander have explained their 
security systems assess whether to stop a transaction and if so, whether to contact the 
customer and using which details based on the nature of concerns and payment rules. In 
some instances, no contact is made.
Looking at the internal records, I can see Santanders system attempted to call Miss Ks 
landline. But since she didnt have a landline number registered on their system, a call 
couldnt be made. It also appears a text message was sent following the transaction on 8 
June 2022. There were no automatic contacts generated for the other transactions. 
Generally, a payment being stopped would prompt a genuine customer to contact their bank, 
as Miss K did. So, while I dont dispute Miss Ks point that it wouldve made sense for 
Santander to have contacted her on her mobile instead of attempting to contact her on a 
landline number which she hadnt supplied, it appears Santander have followed their security 
protocols. So, I cant say theyve acted incorrectly.
Santander are entitled to make commercial decisions such as on their security systems and 
processes. Its not my role to tell Santander how to operate their day-to-day business, which 
includes telling them how to contact customers or to make changes to their security policy 
and procedures  these are legitimate commercial decisions. This is within the remit of the 
financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Since I dont think Santander did anything wrong when they stopped these transactions, I 
cant fairly say they should be responsible to compensate Miss K for any financial loss or the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused in having to contact them to have the blocks 
removed. 
Ill now turn to the incorrect information Miss K says she was given when she used the online 
chat service. Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed, Santander arent able to provide 
me with the chat transcripts or details such as the time she contacted them.
I cant know for certain whether Miss K contacted Santander via the online chat service after 
the first attempt when shed wrong card details or after the second attempt which was 
stopped for security concerns.
Santander have said they didnt give incorrect information as the first attempted payment 
wasnt stopped by them. This indicates that the chat was after the first attempt rather than 
the second.
Either way, based on Miss Ks testimony which I find persuasive, I think Miss K was more 
likely than not given incorrect information by the chat adviser. I say this because, if as 
Santander say that Miss K used the online chat service after the first transaction attempt, 
then Id have expected them to tell Miss K that her transaction failed as shed entered the 
wrong card details. Instead, it appears Miss K was told the issue was with the merchant and 
Santander couldnt find a record of the transaction.I agree this caused Miss K some distress, inconvenience and embarrassment as she 
contacted the merchant and raised a complaint with them. While I appreciate Miss K says 
there was a lot of back and forth, I can see this transaction was made the following day, so 
the issue was resolved fairly quickly.
Its not unexpected to experience some level of frustration and inconvenience when carrying 
out banking activities. All things considered, I dont think the impact on Miss K was 
significant enough to warrant compensation. Santander have apologised for the 
inconvenience Miss K was caused in their final response letter and Im satisfied thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking them to do anything else to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman