DRN-3506238
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that account statements in a specific format have discrepancies when 
considered against the same account statements viewed in different formats.
What happened
Mr S noticed that his account statements in a specific format (OFX format)  which was the 
most convenient format for him when transferring account information to his accountancy 
software  had discrepancies in the statement information such that they didnt directly 
correspond with the information present on the statements when viewed in all other formats. 
Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ss complaint. But they felt that the information on both statement 
formats were correct, but that because the OFX format statements allowed for recent 
transactions beyond the standard monthly statement date to be included, this was why there 
appeared to be differences in the statement information.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, Mr S 
provided more detailed information as to why the OFX format statements werent correct, 
which our investigator passed on to Nationwide. In response, Nationwide confirmed that    
Mr Ss analysis was correct, and that the issue had now been logged by them as an issue 
that required a fix, but that no timescale could be given on when that fix might take place.
Our investigator felt that Nationwides response to Mr Ss ongoing complaint was 
reasonable, and they didnt feel that any award of compensation to Mr S was merited 
because of what had happened. Mr S remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Mr S has referred to this service as a regulatory body on several 
occasions. 
I therefore feel that its important to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory 
body (in contrast to, for instance, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)). Instead, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolutions service, with a remit based 
on fairness of outcome and with powers to instruct corrective action (if deemed necessary) 
where an unfair outcome is considered to have occurred. These powers are case specific 
only, and given that this service isnt a regulatory body, it isnt within the remit of this service 
to instruct a business to change how it operates 
As such, while I can appreciate Mr Ss frustrations at how Nationwide present the account 
statements when viewed in OFX format, this service doesnt have the remit to instruct 
Nationwide to make changes to how they present OFX statements as Mr S would like.
It also must be acknowledged that the issue that Mr S had identified with the OFX 
statements doesnt include that the overall account balance given on those statements is 
wrong, but instead concerns the dates that movements into and out of the account are listed 
as having occurred. 
Mr S has stated that hes unhappy with the standard of service that he received from 
Nationwide when trying to compel them to correct the OFX statement reporting. Again, I can 
appreciate Mr Ss position here, but having reviewed Nationwides internal correspondence 
on this matter it seems clear that Nationwide were focussing on whether there were 
discrepancies in the overall account balance on the statements, rather than on when 
individual transactions were being listed as having occurred. And given that the OFX 
statements didnt show any gain or reduction in the overall account balance, I can 
understand why Nationwide felt that the correct information was being displayed.
Following Mr Ss description of exactly what information on the OFX statements wasnt being 
presented correctly, Nationwide have confirmed that theyve logged the matter as an issue 
required a fix. However, Nationwide have also confirmed that Mr S is their only account 
holder to have raised this issue, and given that they prioritise corrective action based on the 
number of account holders affected, they cant guarantee when this OFX statement issue 
will be corrected.
Im aware that Mr S feels that Nationwide have caused him considerable inconvenience for 
which he should fairly receive compensation. This is because of the time hes had to spend 
attempting to get Nationwide to acknowledge and resolve the issue, and also because hes 
had to manually correct the date information over many years when using the OFX 
statements to transfer his Nationwide account information to his accountancy software. 
Nationwide have confirmed that they have no prior record of Mr S raising this issue with 
them. Mr S has confirmed that he did so many years ago. I dont doubt that Mr S did 
previously raise this issue with Nationwide, but its understandable to me, given how 
Nationwide prioritise issues requiring correction, how the issue may have been purged from 
their system without being resolved after a period of time. And given that Mr S hasnt raised 
this matter again with Nationwide for many years, it doesnt seem to me that Mr S has been 
significantly inconvenienced in regard to an amount of ongoing correspondence hes had to 
undertake with Nationwide that might lead me to consider any form of financial 
compensation here. 
It also must be noted that if Nationwide did have record of Mr S raising this issue when Mr S 
has explained to this service that he first did, then it would be possibly be the case that this 
service wouldnt be able to consider this complaint on the basis of the length of time that 
would have elapsed since the issue first arose. The rules that govern what complaints this 
service can and cant consider, including applicable timeframes, can be found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook.
Similarly, I also dont feel that Nationwide should fairly or reasonably be asked to 
compensate Mr S for his having to make manual adjustments to the OFX statement 
information when inputting that information into his accountancy software. There are several 
reasons for this, including that Nationwide arent obliged to provide account information that 
directly transcribes into any accountancy software, and also because alternative options 
were always available to Mr S during the lengthy period of time that he was unhappy with 
Nationwides OFX statements and the format of the information they contained. 
Ultimately, Nationwide did provide accurate statement information to Mr S in other statement formats, including the standard monthly statement that Nationwide sends to all its members. 
And so, I dont feel that any unfair outcome has arisen here in a general sense. And while 
the flaws in Nationwides statements when presented in OFX format may have 
inconvenienced Mr S, I dont feel that any award of compensation should fairly be instructed 
for that inconvenience given the full circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I hope Mr S will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman