DRN-2856075
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) took too long to send him a new card.
What happened
Mr As card was cancelled because thered been unauthorised access to his card. HSBC 
agreed to send a new card but seven weeks later one still hadnt arrived. Mr A spoke to 
HSBC and it said it had sent the card, but it must have gone missing in the post.
A new card was ordered and has been received by Mr A. Mr A wasnt happy that hed waited 
so long for a card and made a complaint.
HSBC replied to say it wasnt responsible for the card not arriving but did pay Mr A £50. Mr A 
responded and said it had been very inconvenient not to have a card as it was his only 
active card and felt £50 wasnt enough to compensate for this.
Mr A said hed been sending money from his account to his partners. This was inconvenient 
as he was using someone elses card and wasnt able to use other payment methods as 
these required an active card.
HSBC replied to say it felt the £50 was enough as it had replaced the card as soon as it 
knew the previous card hadnt been received. Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his 
complaint to this service.
An adjudicator looked into things and thought HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. The 
adjudicator felt HSBC had acted quickly, as soon as it knew the first card hadnt been 
received and thought the payment of £50 was a fair resolution.
Mr A still felt £50 wasnt a fair amount of compensation so he asked for an ombudsman to 
decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think HSBC has made a mistake here. Mr As card needed to be replaced and Ive 
seen HSBCs evidence that it ordered a new card. Im persuaded it sent Mr A a new card.
Im also sure that Mr A didnt receive this card, but I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for 
this. I cant see anything different in the way HSBC ordered the two cards, Mr A received the 
second card but not the first one. I think the most likely explanation is the first card was lost 
in the post and I dont think this is HSBCs fault.
Mr A has said that he couldnt reorder a card through mobile banking as a card was showing 
as on its way. Mr A says HSBC should have realised that the card hadnt been received.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to manage Mr As account this way, and realise hed not received 
the card  I think it was up to Mr A to tell HSBC he hadnt received the card.
Mr A has also said that he didnt feel comfortable visiting the branch during a pandemic. But 
Mr A was able to call HSBC and did so after seven weeks of not having his card. Im not 
sure why Mr A didnt call HSBC sooner, once HSBC knew Mr A hadnt received his card a 
new one was ordered, and received, very quickly.
Mr A has explained the inconvenience of not having the card, and I agree not having a card 
will be very inconvenient. But since I cant hold HSBC responsible for Mr A not receiving the 
first card, I cant say HSBC needs to compensate Mr A for any inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman