DRN-3301141
The complaint
Miss F and Mrs F complain that they were mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) in February 2013 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Just for clarity, Mrs F took the account out originally in her sole name and it later became a 
joint account with Miss F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F says that she was told by Halifax to take out the URCA to get a better credit rating so 
she could get an overdraft.
Halifax says Mrs F took the URCA out online based on the information provided in the online 
process.
Mrs F previously had a fee free account, so she knew these were available.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mrs F says she had a conversation with Halifax 
before she went to the online application process and she says this was what influenced her 
to open the URCA.
While I dont doubt Mrs F honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that her 
memory may be mistaken which is understandable after many years. I say this because any 
customers credit rating is based on their financial position and borrowing record and not on 
the type of account they hold, so I think its unlikely Halifax would have said otherwise. 
Also, there is no mention of the URCA improving the credit score in the online information 
Mrs F would have seen, and I think she would have queried this if shed been told differently. 
And she didnt apply for an overdraft on her account at any time.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs F knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the URCA based on the information Halifax provided in the online process.
The Halifax online application process doesnt include providing any advice, so Halifax was 
only required to provide enough information about the URCA for Mrs F to make an informed 
decision.
And I think it did. I say this because I cant see that the online process failed to provide any 
information relevant to Mrs F in her circumstances and she went on to make multiple use of 
the benefits.
Likewise, when the URCA became a joint account, Mrs F was very familiar with the product 
and Miss F and Mrs F again went on to make multiple use of the URCAs benefits.
So, although I know Miss F and Mrs F will be disappointed, I dont think Halifax did anything 
wrong in the sale or when it was converted to a joint account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss F and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman