DRN-3981292
The complaint
Mr H complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and the service he received while repairs 
were being completed to his home following a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. Unfortunately, in the summer of 
2020, the front of Mr Hs home was damaged due to an accident. So, he contacted Aviva to 
make a claim.
Due to the potential costs of the repairs, Aviva appointed a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as 
S, to manage the claim on their behalf. Initially, asbestos removal was required before the 
repair works could begin. This removal was completed in November 2020.
Repair work to Mr Hs home then began in February 2021, by a contractor appointed by S. 
And repair work to the internal damage of Mr Hs house around a month later, at Mr Hs 
request. But Mr H was unhappy with the quality of this repair work when he intended to 
return to his home in April. 
Mr H raised his concerns with S. And a snagging list was compiled for additional work to be 
completed to address these concerns. This work was completed and in July, Mr H confirmed 
the same. And to recognise the delays during the claim process, and the fact rectification 
work was required, Aviva paid Mr H £500. Mr H accepted this payment and the complaint 
was closed in October 2021.
But in January 2022, Mr H contacted Aviva again to raise another complaint. Mr H explained 
hed found damage to his loft which he felt was caused by the contractors who completed 
the repair work. And Mr H expressed his unhappiness with the damage caused to his 
bathroom by the contractors in 2021, which he explained had led to him to require a new 
bathroom to be fitted. So, Mr H wanted Aviva to compensate him for the issues found in the 
loft, and to revisit their previous offer of £500 paid in 2021 and increase this to consider the 
upset and inconvenience hed been caused.
Aviva agreed to pay Mr H a £300 cash settlement for the issues found in the loft. But they 
didnt offer to do anything more regarding the damage Mr H had been caused to the 
bathroom. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the £500 Aviva 
had paid to recognise the delays, issues with the initial repairs and the overall service was a 
fair one. And he didnt think he was able to be certain that the damage found in the bathroom 
was caused by the contractors and so, he didnt think he could say Aviva were responsible 
for the costs to repair this, or to replace the bath and sink as Mr H wanted to do. And he also 
recognised the reduction in price to the downstairs flooring. So, he didnt think Aviva needed 
to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He stated a deep clean hadnt been completed by the contractors as it 
shouldve been. And he thought he should be compensated for this.  And Mr H explained the 
reduction in flooring costs was offered due to issues with the initial repairs and not due to 
bathroom damage. So, Mr H maintained his belief that an additional £500 compensation was 
a reasonable request, and this is what he thought Aviva should pay. Our investigators 
considered these comments, but their view remained the same. Mr H continued to disagree 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I dont think its in 
dispute that the claim process took longer than it shouldve done. And that the repairs 
werent completed to the appropriate standard initially. Its also been accepted that the 
contractors did use Mr Hs bathroom when they werent supposed to, and that a blockage 
occurred due to this. So, I think its clear the service Aviva have provided has fallen below 
the standard expected and because of this, I can understand why Mr H would expect to be 
fairly compensated.
But for me to say Aviva should do something more than the £500 theyve already offered; Id 
need to be satisfied the £500 has failed to fairly compensate Mr H for the errors they are 
responsible for. And in this case, Id need to be satisfied that there is evidence to show the 
damage Mr H feels was caused to his bathroom was most likely caused by Avivas 
contractors. And in this situation, I dont think I can say thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. Its not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I dont have 
the expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to consider the actions Aviva have taken based 
on the evidence available to them at the time and decide whether I think these were fair and 
reasonable, considering any offer of compensation already paid.
Ive first thought about the main area of dispute, which centres around the damage Mr H 
feels was caused by Aviva in his bathroom. Ive seen Mr H did raise this with Aviva in 2021, 
alongside the other snagging issues he reported. And I dont think its in dispute that the 
contractors did use the bathroom and that the toilet was blocked due to this use. 
What is in dispute is the damage Mr H feels is present in the bathroom, and his belief Avivas 
contractors failed to conduct a deep clean as agreed. Ive seen the damage Mr H referred to 
was put to the contractors directly. And I can see the contractors stated the damage was 
historic and not caused by them. 
I have looked through the photos provided by Mr H. This photos contain evidence of 
scratches and dents to the sink, bath and flooring. So, I dont dispute there is damage 
present. But crucially, for me to say Aviva should cover the costs of repairing this, Id need to 
be satisfied that this damage was most likely caused by Aviva. And I dont think I can say 
this for certain.
This is because, while I recognise the contractors did use the toilet, I note there was no 
repair work undertaken in the bathroom. So, I dont think Im able to correlate the damage to 
the actions of the builders, as I wouldnt have expected them to have been in the room long enough, or undertaken actions during the usage of this room, that would likely lead to the 
damage found. 
And I also havent seen photos that I think show me the condition of the bathroom before the 
work where I can definitively say the damage wasnt already present in the bathroom before 
the contractors attended Mr Hs property.
In addition to this, I can see in May 2021, Mr H raised his concerns about the condition of the 
bathroom, alongside other snagging issues. But I can see in July 2021, Mr H confirmed to 
Aviva that he was satisfied that all of the issues he raised had been rectified and the claim 
was closed following this. So, this meant that between July 2021 and January 2022, Mr H 
and his family continued to use the bathroom. So, I think additional wear and tear was likely 
during this period and so, I dont think it would be fair to expect Aviva to provide Mr H with a 
payment that allowed him to purchase new items, or repair existing ones, as this would be 
potentially placing him in a position of betterment. 
As Mr H stated he was happy all of the works had been completed, and that the claim could 
be closed, after Avivas contractors had stated the damage was historic and not attributed to 
them, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Aviva shouldve done anything more at this 
point and I think they were fair to assume this stance had been accepted by Mr H. So, I dont 
think its fair to say they should then do something more six months later.
I appreciate Mr H wont agree with this. And Ive considered Mr Hs comments surrounding 
the deep clean, and the toilet blockage. With regards to the deep clean, Avivas contractors 
state they did clean the bathroom. And Ive seen in correspondence with Aviva, Mr H 
accepted that a clean may have taken place, but he disputed the quality of this clean and he 
explained he had needed to clean the bathroom himself again. 
I dont dispute Mr Hs testimony and I accept he felt the need to clean his bathroom again. 
But Ive seen no evidence that suggests to me a clean wasnt attempted by Avivas 
contractor. While I appreciate the thoroughness of this clean is disputed, and Mr H has 
provided photos to substantiate his point, I dont think Im able to comment on the quality of 
the clean as I havent seen evidence to show the condition of the bathroom before the clean, 
and then after. Nor is there a clear definition of what Aviva considered to be a deep clean, 
and how this compared to Mr Hs expectations. So, while I understand Mr Hs frustrations, I 
dont think this means Aviva should pay Mr H additional compensation that allows him to 
redecorate and replace aspects of his bathroom.
And in regard to the blockage, I can see this wasnt disputed and the inconvenience and 
upset this caused was considered within the £500 Aviva offered Mr H. So, Ive then turned to 
whether I think the £500 offered was a fair one for all of the upset Mr H was caused. And 
when doing so, Ive considered the fact Mr H accepted this payment as resolution to his 
complaint in August 2021, before stating he didnt think it was enough in 2022.
As Ive stated above, I think its accepted that rectification works were needed to the initial 
repair works. I can see the repairs shouldve been completed in April 2021 and as additional 
work was required, Mr H wasnt able to say he was satisfied with the work until July 2021. 
Although Mr H has since stated he remains unhappy with this work, I think Aviva were 
prevented from completing any additional rectifications when Mr H stated he was happy. So, 
I think its fair for me to consider the works complete in July 2021.
This means that the claim took just under 12 months to complete, from the date of the claim 
being raised with Aviva. And Ive considered what I believe to be the avoidable delays during 
this length of time.I think its clear that, if Aviva had completed the repair work correctly, the works wouldve 
been completed in April 2021. So, I think there was a three-month delay caused by the poor 
repair work, as that this additional time was needed for the rectification works to take place.
I can also see that there was a period of two months between September 2020  November 
2020 where no work was done as asbestos removal was being arranged. I think this 
couldve been arranged in a shorter period of time and so, I think there were avoidable 
delays here as well.
But following the removal of the asbestos, I think Aviva and S worked together effectively to 
agree a schedule of works for both the external and internal damage of Mr Hs home. So, I 
think there was around 4 months of avoidable delays during the claim process that should be 
compensated for.
And, while I appreciate Mr H has provided extensive comments about the impact on him and 
his family living in the property while work was completed, I can see that Aviva offered to pay 
Mr H for alternative accommodation to minimise this disruption where works rendered the 
property uninhabitable. I can see Mr H did leave the property and that he received a 
payment for the disturbance this caused.
So, while I do recognise it wouldve been a difficult and stressful time for Mr H, especially 
considering the fact he has a young son, I think Aviva did take steps to minimise this initially. 
But I do accept that Mr H and his family had moved back into the property when the 
rectification works were being completed and I dont doubt this wouldve been difficult, and 
upsetting.
Aviva paid Mr H £500 to recognise this distress and inconvenience, which Mr H accepted 
initially. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach 
and what I wouldve recommended, had it not already been paid.
I think it adequately addresses the delays caused to the claim process by Aviva when 
arranging the asbestos removal and when needing to complete rectification works to the 
initial repairs. I also think it fairly takes into account Mr Hs unhappiness with the contractors 
using his bathroom when it was accepted a portable toilet shouldve been used, and the fact 
there was a toilet blockage because of this. But I think it also takes into account Aviva and S 
attempts to rectify the snagging issues in a meaningful and time effective way, whilst also 
ensuring costs such as broadband and the damaged blind were paid out to ensure Mr H 
didnt incur any financial losses.
While I appreciate since this offer, Mr H discovered an issue with his loft, Im satisfied Aviva 
considered this after the closure of his claim and paid out a cash settlement which Mr H 
accepted. And so, I think this issue was addressed fairly. Because of all of the above, I dont 
think Aviva need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr H Ive 
considered all of the comments hes raised, even if they havent been mentioned specifically 
within the decision. But I want to explain to Mr H that, while he feels the claim had been 
ongoing for over two years due to the fact he found an issue in the loft and his unhappiness 
regarding the bathroom, I think Mr H accepted the claim had been completed satisfactorily in 
July 2021. And so, I think the claim to repair the damage caused by the accident was 
ongoing for less than a year. And Id only expect Aviva to compensate Mr H for the avoidable 
delays and the associated impact attributable to them, which I think they have done on this 
occasion. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman