DRN-3076324
The complaint
Miss M complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim for storm damage to a boundary 
wall under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss M contacted QIC to report that her brick boundary wall had blown over in 
a storm. The company sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. QIC then declined the claim 
saying the wall collapsed due to its poor design.
QIC accepted storm conditions had occurred around the time of the collapse. But it 
maintained a single skin brick wall at 1.8m high and 5.6m long in this part of the UK 
represents a poor design. It says the recommended height for a single skin wall is 0.525m. 
QIC concluded the collapse of the wall was not covered by the policy, as the cause was a 
latent defect due to poor design.
QIC also says the wall was in a poor condition, with reference to an internet street view 
image. It says a wall in good condition, if built to the appropriate standard would be expected 
to withstand the winds reported. 
Miss M thought this was unfair. She says the wall was in good condition prior to the storm. 
The wall has stood for many years and its unreasonable to expect current building 
regulations to apply to this situation. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked QIC to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. In addition to compensation for £200. 
The investigator accepted that storm conditions had occurred, and this was the reason the 
wall had collapsed. She didnt agree the poor design exclusion applied, as QIC hadnt 
demonstrated there was a fault when the wall was designed and built. She also thought the 
photos of the wall prior to its collapse, didnt show the evidence of the deterioration claimed 
by the company. 
Miss M accepted this outcome but QIC disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. This has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold this complaint. My reasoning follows the same 
lines as our investigator. I will explain why I think this is fair. 
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
In relation to question one QIC accepts there were storm conditions present around the time 
of the wall collapse. I have checked the data from the weather station closest to Miss Ms 
house, which confirms this. So, the answer to question one is yes.
Regarding question two, I think its reasonable to say the damage is consistent with what a 
storm would cause so again the answer is yes.
Finally, on question three its clear the wall was blown over during the storm force winds. 
This was captured on CCTV. However, QIC says the wall doesnt meet building regulations. 
I have considered whether this impacts on question three, with regards to the following 
policy exclusion:
Poor workmanship: Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials 
(including latent defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only 
causes a problem at a later stage under certain conditions).
The company has supplied information from a government website that provides guidance 
for inspecting garden boundaries and walls. This was published in May 2013. It discusses 
wall thickness against wall height and splits the UK into zones. For Miss Ms zone it says a 
wall  a brick thick, should be no higher than 0.525m. QIC says the wall that collapsed was 
1.80m in height, which is clearly too high when considering its thickness.
I have thought about whether QIC has shown it was fair to rely on the exclusion it has. 
The approach we take in these circumstances is to assess whether the design was faulty at 
the time the wall was built. We asked QIC for its view on when the wall was built and for it to 
demonstrate its design and construction didnt meet the required standard. It hasnt done 
this. 
Although its reasonable for QIC to expect Miss M to maintain her home, I dont think this 
fairly extends to upgrading her boundary walls to keep up with building industry best 
practice. The indication is the wall was in place well before the design requirements referred 
to by the company.   
For this reason, I dont think QIC has been fair in declining the claim based on the poor 
design exclusion.
Poor condition of the wall
QIC also declined the claim on the basis that the wall was in poor condition. 
The policy terms state:
The following exclusions apply to all sections of this policy: Any gradual or maintenance-
related loss or damage: Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including - wear and 
tear; gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not).
QIC points to a street view image from 2012 and says, it is clear to see that the wall is in a 
poor condition back in 2012 and clearly shows the degradation of the mortar and brickwork; any wind speeds present on the date of [sic] before the incident would have highlighted both 
the poor design and also the poor condition of the wall.
I have considered the image provided. I can see some areas where the mortar is missing, 
and there is some vegetation growth toward the bottom of the wall. This image is of the 
outside face. Several photos taken more recently by Miss M show the wall in a good 
condition from inside her boundary. There are no visible signs of missing or deteriorated 
mortar or brickwork. 
Miss M has also sent images of both sides of the wall post collapse, where large chunks of 
the brickwork and mortar remained intact and appear in good condition. As do the bottom 
courses of the brick wall that have remained in place.  
I note the surveyors report says, the wall appeared to be in relatively good condition. QIC 
doesnt think this can be relied upon as the surveyor saw the wall after its collapse. 
However, the surveyor was able to view the section of wall still standing, and the larger 
chunks that remain intact post collapse.  
I have also seen a video of the wall collapsing, captured on a CCTV camera. This was filmed 
from the direction of Miss Ms house facing the wall. The wall breaks at the bottom 
corresponding with the section that is still standing. It remained in one piece until close to its 
impact with ground.  
Having considered all this, I am not persuaded that QICs view that the wall was in a poor 
condition is fairly reflected by the evidence available. The most recent photos of the wall, 
prior to its collapse, show it in a good condition. This is supported by the surveyors 
comments that it was, in relatively good condition. It fell in one piece suggesting its failure 
was due to the pressure of the storm force wind. I would expect a generally weak wall in 
poor condition throughout, would fall apart more quickly than the CCTV video shows. 
Because of this, I dont think QIC can reasonably rely on the exclusion for gradual 
deterioration and decline the claim.
So, in summary, I dont think QIC has shown a valid exclusion applies and it should settle 
the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.   
Compensation
In discussion with our investigator Miss M explained this matter had been stressful for her. It 
also caused her inconvenience and worry because her dogs can escape from the garden 
due to the collapsed wall.
I dont think QIC was fair in declining the claim, and this has delayed settlement and 
ultimately the boundary wall being repaired. Because of this I think a compensation payment 
is fair to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this has caused. I agree with our 
investigator that a payment for £200 is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and QIC Europe Ltd must:
settle Miss Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms; and
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. QIC must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss M accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman