DRN-3252555
The complaint
Ms H complains about Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguross (Ocaso) delay in 
making payments relating to her claim under her buildings insurance.  
What happened
Ms Hs flat was damaged following a blockage of a communal stack pipe. Ms H was renting 
her flat out to a tenant who had to move out due to the flat being uninhabitable. Ms H then 
made a claim to Ocaso for the loss of rent and repairs to her flat. Ms H says things were 
taking too long so she complained. Ocaso accepted there had been delay and offered 
compensation of £50. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. She thought Ocaso should pay £200 
compensation and Ocaso then provided information to show they had already paid £300 to 
Ms H. Our investigator then felt Ocaso didnt need to take any further action. Ms H disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms H. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Ocaso have admitted they got things wrong when they delayed in dealing with      
Ms Hs claim for loss of rent. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Ocaso should compensate Ms H for the inconvenience caused by their 
poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, 
Ive looked at the errors by Ocaso and what the impact of those errors have been. Ms Hs 
claim was first made to Ocaso in mid-March 2019. I can see Ocaso instructed a loss adjuster 
 who Ill refer to as company D - to investigate the claim. It appears company D initially 
misunderstood the position relating to the tenancy arrangements of Ms Hs flat. From the 
information Ive seen, a copy of the tenancy agreement was sent to company D around a 
week after they were instructed. But despite this making the position clear, company D ask 
for further information relating to the ownership and occupation of the flat. This appears to 
get resolved in early May when company D identify the correct position. 
Throughout this period Ms H chases Ocaso for her loss of rent payment. This continues until 
the first payment of £8,000 is made in June. From that point, I can see there were further 
regular payments made for loss of rent through to May 2020. 
Its clear from Ms Hs correspondence she was becoming increasingly frustrated at the time 
Ocaso were taking to deal with her claim. Ms H received her first payment  which 
represented five months loss of rent  three months after she made her claim. Ms H says 
she was worried about her financial circumstances as she was having to pay two mortgages 
during this time. I think the lack of communication with Ms H during this time also increased 
her frustration and worry. So, while I think its reasonable for Ocaso to put this right, I think 
the compensation theyve already paid is fair and reasonable. Ocaso have provided 
evidence which shows three separate complaint responses have been sent to Ms H 
addressing the issue of the delay and a combined £300 has been paid. I have taken into 
account the impact of the delay on Ms H over the three months but I cant see there were 
any wider issues or ongoing problems resulting from the delay. Ms H says she was able to 
pay two mortgages at the same time but someone else mightve defaulted on payments. I do 
acknowledge this, but that hasnt happened here, and I can only look at the impact on Ms H. 
So, I wont be asking Ocaso to pay any further compensation. 
I can see Ms H says her loss of rent claim still hasnt been paid in full. Ms H says, once the 
work was complete, she had to find a tenant and it wasnt until August 2020 that they could 
move in. Ocaso have provided information which shows the damage to Ms Hs flat occurred 
in March 2019 and the repairs were completed in April 2020. I can see from payment reports 
provided by Ocaso that loss of rent payments for this period have been covered by Ocaso. I 
note Ms H says Ocaso didnt give her notice of when the works were likely to be complete so 
this didnt give her an opportunity to start looking for a tenant. Ms H says the policy wording 
states Ocaso will cover rent for the period a tenant is able to move in again. Ive looked at 
Ms Hs policy, which sets out the terms and conditions. This says Ocaso will cover rent Ms H 
would have received but has lost due to damage to her flat. However, under a section 
headed What is not covered, it says Any costs the tenant should pay once the buildings 
can be lived in again. 
Ms H says, after Ocaso completed the repairs she incurred costs in bringing her flat up to a 
standard which made it habitable and she couldnt rent out her flat until this work was 
complete. I can see she has provided invoices for the work carried out which she says 
meant her flat was only habitable at the end of July 2020  and not April. I cant see Ocaso 
have been given an opportunity to consider these invoices and then determine whether, 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, Ms Hs flat was habitable or not. Given that this 
could have an impact on whether a further loss of rent payment needs to be made, I think its 
fair and reasonable for Ocaso to be given an opportunity to consider this. I do wish to make 
it clear that my decision has only addressed the issue of the initial delay in Ocaso dealing 
with Ms Hs loss of rent claim and the compensation awarded. The issue of the further costs 
incurred by Ms H and the loss of rent she claims has arisen, should be considered by Ocaso 
before our service can consider it.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman