DRN-3391516
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont refund him after he lost money to a 
car purchase scam. 
Mr B is represented by his friend in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr B himself.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 21 February 2022. Ive copied the content of 
that document below.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, Mr B has explained that in August 2020, he was looking to buy a car. Hes 
explained that most of the cars hed seen had been for sale for between £14,000 and 
£16,000, however he found one on a social media sales platform advertised for £8,058. Mr B 
has said he was happy to buy this car as it was second hand and cheap, so contacted the 
buyer by email, who appeared to work for a car dealership. Unfortunately, unbeknownst to 
Mr B at the time, the seller was in fact a fraudster and had spoofed a genuine car 
dealership. 
The fraudster told Mr B that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their dealership was closed to 
the public and they were only offering a delivery service. Mr B was told that to purchase the 
car, hed need to provide copies of his identification and register interest on the dealerships 
website. Having done so, Mr B then received an email from what appeared to be a separate 
payment service provider (which was also spoofed as part of the scam). The email advised 
that the dealership had created a temporary escrow bank account for Mr B to send his funds 
to and this this account will hold Mr Bs money until the car had been delivered, inspected 
and accepted by Mr B. 
The account was in an individuals name, which the email advised was the delivery drivers. 
It also advised that if Mr B received a warning from his bank that the beneficiary account 
details couldnt be verified, to ignore this warning as some banks dont share a common 
database but we are certain that the bank details are correct, we dont make mistakes. The 
email advised that as the account is temporary, Mr B should complete the payment quickly 
and to send a screenshot of the payment to the payment service provider once completed.
Mr B made the payment as requested, but after this the car wasnt delivered and the 
fraudster stopped replying to Mr Bs emails. At this point Mr B realised hed been the victim 
of a scam and contacted Nationwide to raise a fraud claim. 
Nationwide investigated Mr Bs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mr B 
with a refund. Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Nationwide says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. 
Nationwide has said that Mr B ignored an effective warning it provided when he made the 
payment to the fraudster. 
The warning read as follows: NOTE: Criminals are using COVID-19 to their advantage. 
Your money is safe and theres no security reason to move your funds! 
Been asked to send money to someone youve never met? Talk it over with someone you 
trust first. 
People you know can be impersonated through email or social media hacks. Criminals can 
also make calls and texts look like theyre from someone you know. Best to call the person 
to see if its really them. 
Paying for something upfront? If possible, view the item before you pay. Tip: debit/credit 
cards offer better protection than sending a payment directly to a seller's account. 
Not sure? Stop now. 
Nationwide has said that when making the transfer, Mr B was asked the reason for payment. 
Nationwide has provided evidence that Mr B chose the friend or relative option. While not 
the most relevant payment reason available, Nationwide still considers that Mr B wouldve 
been protected by this warning had he followed it. Mr B says he doesnt remember choosing 
the reason for payment, or seeing any scam warnings. 
Mr B feels he should be refunded so referred his complaint to us. An investigator looked into 
Mr Bs complaint and thought Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was 
making a legitimate payment for a genuine purchase. He said this was because: 
The price the car was advertised for was too good to be true based on other similar 
second-hand models available being twice the price of the one Mr B saw. 
Mr B didnt carry out many checks on the car, such as a HPI or MOT check, he only 
checked the car was road taxed. There was also a notice added to Companies 
House three days before Mr B sent the payment, advising the company Mr B thought 
he was speaking with was to be struck off and dissolved. 
The investigator didnt think the warning provided by Nationwide was effective under the 
CRM Code, but as he thought Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making 
the payment, he didnt consider he needed to comment further on the warning. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings so the case has been referred to me for a 
final decision. 
My provisional findings
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Nationwide should have reimbursed Mr B under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr B from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr B was tricked into making the payment. He thought he was 
making a genuine car purchase and that didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, 
for Mr B to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr B 
too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Nationwide to establish that a customer failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
 Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:  
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
In this case, I think Nationwide has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse Mr B under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed 
exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think Mr B failed to meet his requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I dont think he had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods, or that the person he transacted with 
was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has confirmed he had been looking online for a vehicle and from his prior research, had 
seen that the car he wanted cost roughly double what the fraudster was asking for. I think 
the price of the car shouldve been a red flag for Mr B, particularly as it was apparently being 
sold by a dealer who would be expected to understand the cars value. The fraudster told Mr B he couldnt see the car due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At the time Mr 
B sent payment to the fraudster, stores were allowed to reopen, so I think this is a less 
compelling reason to have been given for not being able to view the car at this time. 
As Mr B hadnt seen the car, I think its reasonable to expect Mr B to have completed some 
checks on the car he was buying, as well as the dealership. While Mr B did check the cars 
road tax, he didnt conduct any other checks, such as the MOT or HPI. Mr B also didnt 
complete any checks on the dealership in question  while the fraudster appeared to be 
spoofing a legitimate company, Companies House suggests the business being spoofed 
was struck off in the days prior to the scam taking place  so I think further checks on Mr Bs 
part wouldve raised further red flags that wouldve made a difference to Mr B proceeding 
with the sale. 
I also think there were some irregularities in what Mr B was told in emails from the payment 
service provider. I dont find it compelling that an escrow account would be set up in the 
name of the delivery driver providing a car, that they would tell customers to bypass bank 
warnings as they dont make mistakes, and that a payment service provider would send 
personalised, rather than automated messages about how to make the payment and require 
a screenshot as evidence of the payment being completed. 
With all of the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr 
B ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the seller and car and that, in turn, 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Bs part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate 
sale and so fell below the level of care expected of him under the CRM Code. 
Should Nationwide have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr B? 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide did enough to protect Mr B from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr B made this payment, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Having considered the warning Nationwide provided Mr B, I dont think it meets the Codes 
requirements to be an effective warning. The majority of the warning isnt specific enough to 
the scam Mr B fell victim to, so I dont think it wouldve had an impact on Mr Bs decision 
making at the time of the scam. However, Ive also considered that Mr B selected the friend 
or relative option for this payment. When asked why Mr B made this selection, hes 
explained he doesnt remember doing so and that he also doesnt recall seeing the warning 
Nationwide presented. 
As Mr B doesnt recall choosing the reason for payment  or seeing the payment warning 
Nationwide presented, I dont think it wouldve had a material effect on preventing this scam 
had Nationwide provided a warning that was effective in Mr Bs circumstances. I therefore 
dont think Nationwide should be held liable for Mr Bs losses, despite it not having provided 
an effective warning. Once it was made aware of the scam, Nationwide acted quickly to try to recover the funds 
for Mr B and returned what it successfully recovered. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think Nationwide could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mr Bs payments. 
Ive also considered whether Nationwide shouldve stopped the payment Mr B made for 
further questioning before processing it. Having reviewed Mr Bs statements for the 12 
month period prior to the scam, I can see other payments of similar value to the one made to 
the fraudster. I therefore dont think the payment to the fraudster was so unusual that 
Nationwide ought to have asked further questions before allowing the transfer to be made.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwides position on Mr Bs fraud claim, and its assessment 
under the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Nationwide 
shouldnt be held liable for Mr Bs losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr B. 
I do sympathise with Mr B as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Mr B genuinely believed he was making a legitimate purchase. But the circumstances of the 
case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
My provisional decision 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Nationwide 
didnt provide any further comments. Mr B disagreed and raised the following:
Mr B said Nationwide didnt provide any warning when Mr B made the payment
Mr B said Nationwide gave him false hope when he reported the scam that they 
would be able to help. He feels Nationwide couldve done more to get his money 
back
Mr B said he asked the fraudster to see the car prior to buying it, but was told this 
wasnt possible due to the Covid-19 pandemic
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im not upholding it. I 
have thought about what Mr B has said since the provisional decision, but it doesnt 
persuade me to reach a different outcome.
Nationwide has provided a screenshot of its audit system which provides details of the 
payment Mr B made, and is recorded at the time the payment is made. Details recorded 
include the time of payment, the type of account Mr B paid from and also includes the 
selected payment purpose Mr B chose when prompted by Nationwide. This is logged as 
friend or relative. As this information was collected by Nationwides system as the payment 
was made, I find this persuasive evidence that Nationwide did request the reason at the time 
for Mr B making the payment and that Mr B selected the friend or relative option. On this 
basis, I consider it more likely than not that this wouldve been followed by Nationwides 
warning specifically related to the friend or relative payment choice, which I outlined in my 
provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr B may not recall seeing this warning, but based on the evidence available to me I think its more likely than not that this information was provided to Mr B at the time of 
payment.
I appreciate Mr B feels he was given false hope by Nationwide  and Ive noted that 
Nationwide took longer than expected to provide an answer to Mr B on his complaint, which 
it awarded £75 compensation for. However having listened to the first call Mr B had with 
Nationwide, Nationwide did confirm that while it will do everything it can to help, it cant 
guarantee Mr B will receive a refund. I therefore dont think Mr B was given false hope that 
he would definitely get his money back from Nationwide. 
Nationwide then contacted the beneficiary bank promptly to try and recover funds for Mr B. 
While I accept Mr B didnt receive an answer from Nationwide on his complaint for some 
time, I dont think this had any bearing on Nationwides ability to recover Mr Bs funds, as a 
claim was logged with the beneficiary bank the same day that Mr B first contacted 
Nationwide. Unfortunately most of Mr Bs funds had already been removed from the account 
by this time.
I understand Mr B was given reasons why he couldnt see the car before purchasing it. 
However I think there were other factors in this case, as set out in my provisional decision, 
that ought to have made Mr B question whether this was a legitimate sale and conduct more 
checks. I dont think, in the circumstances of this complaint, Mr B did enough to assure 
himself that this was in fact a legitimate seller.
For these reasons I remain of the view that Nationwides assessment of Mr Bs fraud claim 
under the CRM Code is fair, so Im not asking Nationwide to make any further payment to Mr 
B.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman