DRN-2003784
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has turned
down a storm claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, there were high winds. Mr and Mrs H noticed that some tiles were missing
from their roof and made a claim on their home insurance policy.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor to investigate the cause of damage. The surveyor didnt think
the damage was down to storm. They found that the slate tiles had slipped out because of
nail corrosion. So Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim because it said damage caused
by wear and tear or over time isnt covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Lloyds decision and they complained. They provided
details of two expert roofers whod said the damage was down to storm. They also sent
Lloyds a copy of a report from one of the roofers which stated that the roof had been
damaged by storm conditions. But Lloyds maintained its position, so Mr and Mrs H asked us
to look into their complaint. They were also unhappy with the service theyd received from
Lloyds.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there
was evidence of corroded nails in the photos shed seen in the surveyors report. She
couldnt see why only six or seven tiles wouldve slipped and why a wider area of the roof
wasnt affected. She was persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs roofers report. So she thought the
storm winds had been the main cause of the damage. She recommended that Lloyds should
cover Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
The investigator also thought Mr and Mrs H had been put to some distress and
inconvenience by Lloyds turning down their claim. And Lloyds hadnt spelled their name
properly in some letters. So she recommended Lloyds pay £100 compensation.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigator. It said it couldnt provide photos of the nail corrosion
because this is covered up by the slates above. Each slate would need to be removed to
expose the nail  which could then lead to water ingress. It said the slates had slipped rather
than being blown upwards by the wind. If the cause was storm it wouldve expected to see
the slates above the missing ones lifted from the battens. It pointed to areas of lead strips
holding other slates in place due to previous repairs where slates had slipped. The surveyor
thought the roof was nearing the end of its serviceable life and would need replacing soon.
Lloyds also told the investigator about a storm claim Mr and Mrs H had made five months
before, which was turned down on the basis that there werent any prevailing storm
conditions. Roof slates had slipped then too. Lloyds said if the roof had been well 
maintained, it wouldve withstood both the October 2018 conditions and the high winds in
March 2019. From the photos thatd been taken, which showed moss growth and chipped
tiles, it didnt think the roof had been well-maintained. Lloyds also told us itd asked a
chartered engineer to assess the evidence. Hed agreed with the original surveyors findings.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. I said:
As the investigator explained, when we consider complaints about storm, there are three
questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
Mr and Mrs Hs policy sets out what Lloyds considers to be a storm. It says:
We consider a storm to be violent weather like strong winds of 55mph or more, sometimes
accompanied by rain and/or heavy snow or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or
breaks glass.
Lloyds accepts there were storm force winds recorded at local weather stations around the
date of the claim. Having looked at the local weather reports, I can see gale force gusts
around the week the claim was made (up to 56mph a few days before) and 48mph on the
day of the claim. I think these winds are strong enough to constitute storm conditions. So Im
satisfied the answer to the first questions is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
I think that dislodged or missing tiles following storm winds can be broadly consistent with
storm damage. This means I think the answer to the second question is yes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr and Mrs H say the storm winds were the main cause of the damage. Lloyds says that nail
corrosion was the main cause of the damage. Where theres a dispute about whats
happened, I need to make my decision based on what I thinks most likely to have
happened, taking into account all the evidence.
On the one hand, Mr and Mrs H have provided a report from one of their roofing specialists
which put the cause of the damage down to storm. On the other hand, Lloyds surveyor and
a chartered engineer think the damage was down to nail corrosion  which happens over
time and isnt covered by the policy terms. Ive looked at both pieces of evidence carefully.
Mr and Mrs Hs roofers report says: High winds and storm damage are the full cause of the
damage. There are slates slipped down due to the high winds rattling them and also slates
missing as high winds have blown them off the roof.
Lloyds has provided a number of pieces of evidence from its surveyors. The original report
said: There is no storm damage to the property and the slate tiles have slipped out due to
nail corrosion. There are previous repairs to the roof where lead tabs have been put in place
to repair the slipped tiles.
The surveyor provided photos of these areas of repair on the roof.
Our investigator didnt think the report showed the damage was down to nail corrosion and
couldnt see any evidence of it in the photos. I accept Lloyds explanation as to why the
slates above couldnt be lifted, if this would likely lead to water ingress and further damage.Lloyds provided further detail from its surveyor. It said: It is my opinion that nail corrosion is
the cause of damage over storm because as the quotation says, the slates have 'slipped'
rather than being blown upwards by any winds. If the cause was storm we would expect to
see the slates above the missing ones to be raised clear of the timber battens If the nail
heads were still large enough to hold the slates then it would not be possible to slide one out
because the nail would prevent this.
The surveyor added: The corrosion has affected all of the slates that have previously been
replaced over a period of time. You have to think that these nails and slates have been
sitting on the roof for tens of years and corrosion is a gradually operating cause that is not
going to reach a point of letting the slates go all at the same time. It is only a matter of time
before all of the slates will become affected but that could take another 10 or 20 years, in
this time there will be a few more loose slates each year.
In its final submission to us, Lloyds also said that the lead nibs are a common sign of
running roof repairs where nail fixings have significantly deteriorated. And that the
breakdown in the fixings is advanced. It also stated: For a gust to cause a fixing to fail, the
wind must lift the slates with sufficient intensity to prize up heavy slates from their position,
pushing them down and then upwards with such force and suddenness to break either the
slate or the nail. Localised slippage of occasional tiles across an entire roof slope is not
consistent with this cause; especially when adjacent tiles appear to be positioned correctly
without any notable disturbance.
Ive considered both pieces of evidence very carefully. Ive also borne in mind that Mr and
Mrs H made a claim for storm damage to their roof only five months before this claim.
Slipped tiles were noticed in that claim too. That claim was turned down because there
werent storm winds to cause the tiles to slip. This suggests to me that there is an ongoing
issue with the fixing of slate tiles to Mr and Mrs Hs roof. It also looks like lead nibs have had
to be fitted to the roof previously to prevent tiles from slipping.
On balance, based on what Ive seen so far and taking everything into account, Im currently
more persuaded by the findings of Lloyds surveyor and engineer. Theyve gone into a great
deal of detail about the cause of the claim. And I think the previous claim Mr and Mrs H
made for slipped tiles supports that there are ongoing issues with the roof. It also seems to
me that some of what Mr and Mrs Hs roofer found ties-in with what Lloyds experts have
found, as hes referred to the tiles slipping.
Lloyds has told us that the process of nails rusting is a long term condition and happens
gradually. The surveyors have also said that they believe the roof is coming to the end of its
natural life. Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover gradually operating causes  damage that
happens over time, or wear and tear. Based on the evidence I have, I currently think the
main cause of the damage was the corrosion of the nails  a gradually operating cause. So I
think the cause of the damage was excluded.
Mr and Mrs H have told us theyve been quoted £3000 for the repairs. Lloyds has said a
patch repair would cost it around £600. But it simply doesnt think this is a long term solution
to the problems with Mr and Mrs Hs roof. I should point out that the policy doesnt cover the
costs of replacing a roof  simply putting right the damage caused by a storm. So even if I
were to uphold this complaint, my award would be limited to directing Lloyds to repair the
roof area damaged by storm only.
I agree that Mr and Mrs H have received some poor service from Lloyds. Its unfortunate that
it wrote letters to them which didnt spell their surname correctly. I appreciate that this must
have been frustrating for them. But considering all the circumstances of this claim, I'm not
persuaded to tell Lloyds to pay any compensation.Overall, I currently think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Lloyds had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with my provisional findings. They felt that while the roof may not 
have been in prime condition, it had been doing its job until the time of the storm. Both 
roofing companies they'd spoken to were experienced and had good reputations. They said 
zinc nails didnt corrode. They also felt they hadnt been treated with courtesy by Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that I did carefully consider their roofers reports. But I have 
to weigh up all the available evidence to decide what I think is most likely to have been the 
main cause of the damage. 
In this case, Lloyds surveyor and engineer provided very detailed submissions to explain 
why they felt nail corrosion was the main cause of the damage. Ive taken this together with 
the storm claim Mr and Mrs H had made a few months before, where the damage sustained 
to the roof damage was broadly similar. In that case, there werent prevailing storm 
conditions to cause the slates to slip. So it seems the nails most likely were already failing 
and weakened and that the storm winds here simply highlighted the existing damage.
Overall, I still think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs storm claim.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel let down by Lloyds and they feel they received poor 
service. It mustve been very frustrating when their names were incorrectly spelled, and I do 
sympathise with their position. But I dont think its likely this caused them material distress. I 
know Mr and Mrs H think I should impose a fine for this error, but our role isnt to fine or 
punish financial businesses. And having considered everything, I still dont think Lloyds 
needs to pay them any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman