DRN-3791854
The complaint
In May, June and November 2017, Mrs S invested a total of £56,250 in three, 3 Year Fixed 
Monthly Income IFISA bonds with an interest rate of 6.12% p.a. with Basset & Gold Plc 
(B&G Plc). She says the advertisments didnt mention she was investing the money in pay 
day lenders or mention the risks involved. She doesnt remember ever seeing an Invitation 
Document. Had she been told the investment was being lent pay day lending companies she 
wouldnt have invested. She believes she was misled.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond  
Mrs S invested in three B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA bonds. Sales of 
these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to 
discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. 
Mrs Ss investment in the bond
Mrs S came across BG Ltd when searching the internet looking to find an 
investment with a better return than her current ISAs. She was looking to invest 
money which was held in cash ISAs at the time to provide for her childs 
education and her own retirement. She believed as these were ISAs they were 
tax free and supported by the government.
Mrs S visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 to take out the first bond and to 
start the ISA transfer process. She later also invested in June and November 
2017.
                     
Mrs S has told us that she had no investment experience having only previously 
invested in ISAs. She was risk averse and thought the bonds were a safe 
investment. She had no experience of this type of investment and says she was 
never informed by her account manager, or via the literature, that she would be 
invested in pay day lending. She invested all her liquid assets in the bonds. 
I have been supplied with a number of call recordings both pre and post sale. I 
dont feel they are material to the sales so they have not been relied on when 
reaching my decision.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) , Uncle Buck went into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc 
went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs S has not had her invested 
capital returned to her.
The application process
Mrs S applied online and also submitted a paper application for an ISA transfer.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mrs S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed 
to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mrs S was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was 
the appropriateness test. 
I have also seen copies of the paper application form which shows a transfer from the 
ceding business to B&G Ltd. This was completed by Mrs S and signed on 13 June 
2017. Mrs S completed a five question appropriateness test as part of this application, 
however this was completed after she had already gone through the online application 
process in April 2017 as detailed above.
Galliums response to Mrs Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said Mrs S had ben given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investments. It then made further submissions once Mrs Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ss complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs S as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds 
for her   was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply 
with the FCAs rules. 
The website and marketing material were misleading.Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mrs S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs S to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs S for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Ss complaint.
Regardless of the label, Mrs S made the investments on the understanding they had 
risk associated with them, and did not chose to surrender them when receiving the 
email in 2019 which warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded 
with the investments regardless. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of the test.
Mrs S made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with 
them, and did not chose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investments were 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs S into certifying herself as 
belonging in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs S fairly 
or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled     
Mrs S, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
As previously mentioned Mrs S completed a paper application as part of her ISA 
transfer. Whilst I've taken the paper application into account, I don't think it's fair for 
BG Ltd to rely on the answers given within it, given Mrs S had already gone 
through the online application process.  
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds were not an appropriate investment for Mrs S. In the circumstances Mrs S 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should 
have concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mrs S.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Ss complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mrs S for her loss.
Putting things rightIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put   
Mrs S as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs Ss circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs S's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs S £350 for the distress caused by the loss of her investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
(BG22970)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
(BG23500)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
(BG26180)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs S agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs S that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman