DRN-1741030
The complaint
Mr F has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft 
of his motorbike.
What happened
Mr F took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE over the phone. When his motorbike 
was stolen from his workplace, he tried to claim on his policy. 
MCE declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. When 
Mr F complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about where his 
motorbike was stored incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate 
or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said MCE should consider Mr Fs claim and 
settle it proportionately. He also thought MCE should remove any record of the voidance 
from any databases.
MCE didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr F also 
said he didnt agree that he answered MCEs question carelessly. He said hed answered its 
question with care as he thought it was asking whether the garage was public or private 
property, rather than private to him. He wanted the claim settled in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
MCE thinks Mr F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said that the overnight storage location of his bike was a garage. 
And Ive listened to the question Mr F was asked in the sales call and I agree he failed to 
take reasonable care. This is because he was asked what the overnight storage location 
was, and he was given MCEs definition of a garage as a locked structure for his private use. 
I think this was a clear question asked by MCE in the sales call.
Mr F confirmed that the bike was kept in a garage. But Mr Fs motorbike was kept in an 
underground car park. And I think this means Mr F failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he said the overnight storage location would be a garage. 
MCE has provided evidence which shows that if Mr F had not made this misrepresentation it 
would have at least charged him a higher premium. This means I am satisfied Mr Fs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
MCE also said that Mr Fs misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
It said that when Mr F reported the theft, he said the bike was stored overnight in an 
underground carpark. And so it said he knew this wasnt a garage for his own private use. 
And so it said the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. But I dont think this is 
relevant. Whats relevant under CIDRA is what happened at the point of sale. 
Ive listened to the sales call and I think Mr F had trouble understanding some of MCEs 
questions. He asked for them to be repeated and further defined. When the agent read out 
MCEs definition of a garage, he spoke much more quickly. I think Mr F should have asked 
him to repeat what hed said before he agreed that his bike was stored in a garage. And so I 
think Mr F agreed that he met MCEs definition without fully understanding it. And so I think 
Mr Fs misrepresentation was careless. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied MCE was entitled to avoid Mr Fs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. MCE would have still offered Mr F cover if hed answered the question about the 
bikes storage correctly, but on different terms, an increased premium. So I think it should 
consider his claim following the theft of his motorbike and, if it accepts it, settle it on 
proportionate terms. 
Mr F thought MCE should compensate him for the trouble and upset the avoidance caused 
him. He said he was unable to ride his other bike due to the avoidance. The avoidance of the 
policy meant that no cover was in place for his bikes. 
I think the avoidance was unfair, but I think Mr F could have found cover elsewhere for his 
remaining bike if he so wished. And I think Mr F did make a misrepresentation. So I dont 
think MCE needs to pay him any compensation. But I think MCE does need to otherwise put 
things right for Mr F.
Putting things rightI think MCE should consider Mr Fs claim and, if it accepts it, settle it proportionately on the 
basis of what he should have paid compared with what he did pay for his premium. I also 
think MCE should remove records of the avoidance from any databases on which its been 
recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require MCE Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman