DRN-2588095
The complaint
Mr W complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal) 
wouldnt update his home address on their records.
What happened
Mr W contacted Royal to say that he was moving overseas and wished to update his 
address. Royal required the production of some identity information before doing so. Mr W 
felt he had provided all that was needed but Royal didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said I had reviewed the papers and could 
understand Mr Ws frustration. He made contact in early November 2019. The Royal replied 
the next day asking him to verify his identity in accordance with a leaflet provided. Mr W 
replied on 3 December with what he thought complied with their request. When Royal replied 
on 10 December it said it didnt accept what he had sent met all its needs and it needed to 
verify his new address. 
I thought Royal could have been clearer about what was needed because it didnt make 
clear it needed to verify his address as well as his identity. My view about lack of clarity was 
supported by the fact Mr W replied to question further and say he had supplied what the 
leaflet asked for as he had provided two forms of UK documents. He felt that once he had 
verified his identity Royal should then follow his instructions to update the address. He 
complained at that point.
Royal later issued a final response which Mr W wouldve received in early January 2020. By 
this time, I thought Mr W should have been clear what was needed, and it shouldve been 
possible for him to supply the information and enable Royal to update his address without 
further delay.
Mr W also argued that Royal had a duty to act in his best interests and should update his 
address now he had verified his identity. But I said that Royal had to protect Mr W and its 
other policyholders by making sure it only processed valid request to change. It could 
reasonably use procedures for checking that it felt appropriate and I couldnt direct it to 
change them.
I said I could understand his frustration as the early communication wasnt clear as to what 
was needed. In my provisional decision I proposed to uphold the complaint and direct that 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay Mr W £75.00 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Royal said it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr W said he still didnt see how Royal had complied with their fiduciary duty. He said Royal 
had accepted his request was genuine, which was key. It had a legal duty to act in his 
interests not theirs. Its processes didnt trump their legal duty to him once it had accepted his 
request was genuine. Once his identity had been established it should update his address to 
wherever he stated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the further comments made by Mr W but for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision I have not changed my mind. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand that once Mr W had established his 
identity, he feels Royal should be able to accept his instructions and change his address. But 
as I pointed out it has an internal process to validate a change of address in addition to its 
process to check identity. I thought both processes were not unreasonable, and I could not 
direct the business to change them. 
I dont think the processes are trumping its duty to Mr W. Its duty to Mr W doesnt mean that 
it must follow all directions given by Mr W without any checks or balances. Royal needs to 
ensure it protects its member and keeps accurate records. The information it requested to 
verify his new address would enable it to do that. As I pointed out, by early 2020 it was clear 
what was needed to enable Royal to follow Mr Ws instruction to change his address. Once 
that was provided it would be able to fulfil his request and update the record it holds.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think Royal should pay the amount suggested for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
should pay Mr W £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman