DRN-3394499
The complaint
Mr M complains that Embark Investment Services Limited (Embark) delayed the 
reinvestment of sale proceeds in his Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP), causing a 
loss and then incorrectly explained how his account worked. He would like compensation for 
the loss and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr M had a SIPP with Legal & General (L&G) which used Embark for stockbroker services. 
He placed sale instructions for an investment on 27 October 2021 and Embarks system 
noted that proceeds were expected from the fund manager on 2 November 2021. Mr M said 
the process was that once Embark received the funds, it remitted them to L&G, after which 
they became available for reinvestment through Embark. He said he wanted to reinvest as 
soon as possible.
When the proceeds werent received as expected Mr M queried this with Embark and L&G. 
Embark said the proceeds hadnt been received from the fund manager yet, but it would 
process them immediately when they were. L&G asked Embark why the funds were showing 
in Mr Ms cash account if these hadnt been received. Embark said this was an electronic 
balance. But as funds were to be withdrawn (to L&G), this couldnt be actioned until the 
proceeds were actually received. The funds were received on 19 November 2021 and 
Embark sent them to L&G by same day transfer. 
Mr M complained to Embark about the delay. It rejected his complaint. It said that the sale 
proceeds had shown immediately in the account and could be used to trade. But the 
requested withdrawal to L&G couldnt be made until the proceeds had actually been 
received from the fund manager, which was outside its control. Mr M also complained to 
L&G, who said Embark had incorrectly advised that sale proceeds were immediately 
available for reinvestment as these had to be paid to the SIPP bank account with L&G first.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He said a similar delay had occurred previously 
and Embark had paid him £150 in compensation. He said the delay had caused him a loss 
as the price of the new investment hed made had increased during the delay.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said Embark had explained it couldnt release a withdrawal until the funds were available 
to make it. He said Embarks Terms & Conditions (T&Cs) made this clear under Clause 
1.14:
When arranging the withdrawal you/your Financial Adviser will need to ensure there 
is sufficient Available Cash in place for the withdrawal.
He said that the circumstances of Mr Ms previous complaint, where it had paid 
compensation, may have been different. But in this complaint Embark had sent the funds on 
the day of receipt which was reasonable, and he hadnt been treated unfairly. 
Mr M disagreed. He said Embark should have told him about the delay and what was 
causing it and was required to investigate complaints fairly. He said it had provided incorrect 
information about funds being credited immediately for reinvestment, which our investigator 
had repeated without challenge or asking why this usual industry standard is not applicable 
to my account. Mr M said it wasnt right that Embark, L&G and the fund manager could just 
blame each other for the delay whilst providing either no or incorrect information to him. And 
the only evidence was Embarks word for it.
Our investigator said he could only consider Embarks actions, and he didnt think it had 
caused the delay as the fund manager was an independent third party. He said he 
understood why Mr M wanted a more detailed explanation. But that didnt mean the 
explanation Embark had given was improper, and it wasnt reasonable to uphold the 
complaint because it hadnt provided additional details. He said he couldnt investigate 
L&Gs comments. 
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Embark or other 
businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think 
there have been failings. I also cant generally consider a complaint about how a business 
has handled a complaint, because that in itself isnt a regulated activity. What I can consider 
is whether a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and 
inconvenience and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
I understand Mr Ms frustration here, but theres no evidence that Embark delayed the 
settlement. This did take longer than might typically be expected and some incorrect 
information was provided. But the misinformation about pre-funded trading balances wasnt 
responsible for any delay in Mr M completing the reinvestment he wanted to make. And Mr 
M wasnt under the impression he could do something he couldnt because of this incorrect 
information, so this didnt change the outcome here.
Mr Ms further complaint point about pre-funded trading balances being the usual industry 
standard isnt something I can consider in this complaint. The terms of his plan with L&G is a 
matter he will need to raise with it if he is dissatisfied. However, I can say that whilst some 
pension providers do facilitate prefunding to allow trades to be made pending settlements, 
not all do. It maybe that prefunding is available with other pension providers Embark works 
with, resulting in the confusion. But I appreciate that this error has undermined Mr Ms 
confidence of the other explanations provided. 
Embark wasnt in control of how long the sale proceeds would take to settle. And its records 
confirm that the delay was being queried. The administration team advised on 12 November 
2021 that a timescale couldnt be provided as it was out-with our control to chase the 
proceeds from the fund manager. The system was updated on 17 November 2021 to say 
that funds were still awaited. 
But I thought Mr Ms request for a more detailed explanation of why the settlement took the 
time it did was reasonable, so I asked Embark about this. It said in this case it wasnt exactly clear, but the normal process was to check for updates, which I think it did. But it also 
contacted the provider of the back-office system it uses, to see if it could provide more 
details. 
The provider explained that not all trading processes were paperless. As some fund 
management groups required renunciation forms to be completed and returned, sometimes 
requiring wet signatures, before sale proceeds would be released. It said records from the 
time suggested that this was the case here, and that continuing working from home 
procedures also meant wet signatures were taking longer to obtain. There is no indication of 
how much extra time such manual processes may have added here. But clearly this process 
would be significantly longer than that with fund managers prepared to exchange the 
necessary details electronically.
This does provide some clarification of why settlement took longer than typical. It also 
confirms that much of the process was outside Embarks control. It did chase for updates 
before settlement was received. Even if it had briefed Mr M on these issues at the time, I 
doubt this would have provided him with much comfort as there was still no indication of 
when settlement would actually be completed. And I dont think the outcome would have 
been changed as Embark was still dependant on the fund manager completing its own 
processes. 
So, the only error Ive seen evidence of was Embark telling Mr M that he could have traded 
while the proceeds were awaited. Thats something he already knew wasnt the case. And 
as Embark could only have provided limited information about where the fund managers own 
process was up to, I dont think it has treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman