DRN-4442995
The complaint
Mr B complains that Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as Stocktrade 
(Stocktrade), blocked his account and didnt allow him to place a sale. By the time the 
block was removed, and he was able to trade, the price had moved against him. He wants 
Stocktrade to reimburse him for the loss.
What happened
Mr B has a SIPP with a business Ill refer to as F. This is managed by a business Ill refer to 
as S. S opened a trading account with Stocktrade, and Mr B was provided with online 
access to allow him to trade on his account. 
On 1 February 2023, Mr B placed an online order to buy shares in a company which Ill refer 
to as V. Within five to ten minutes, the value of V shares had increased, and Mr B placed 
online orders to sell his shares, but he didnt proceed with the sale when he received the 
price quote. The third time he placed a sale order, he was temporarily blocked from 
obtaining further quotes, as hed asked for too many. He was directed to wait 15 minutes, or 
phone Stocktrade to place the order with its dealing desk. Mr B phoned to place the sale 
order, but Stocktrade quoted a lower price than hed previously been quoted online, and he 
decided not to sell. During the call, the dealer realised Stocktrade didnt have Mr Bs correct 
home address in its records, so it passed him to its administration team. They said they 
could only update his address if instructed by S, and his account was blocked until the 
address details could be confirmed. 
More recently, its been discovered that Mr B had given his change of address details to F in 
or around November 2022. F didnt take down the address correctly; it read the wrong 
information back to Mr B, but he confirmed it as correct. This wrong address was then 
passed to S, and from S to Stocktrade. Mr B had contacted Stocktrade in December 2022 to 
tell him his address was wrong. But in both December 2022 and in February 2023, 
Stocktrade explained that it couldnt update Mr Bs address; it could only take instructions 
from S, as the SIPP manager. 
In summary, because it was clear of the distress being caused to Mr B because he couldnt 
sell V shares, Stocktrade contacted S, who in turn contacted F to get the correct address. 
Stocktrade was able to update Mr Bs address at 4.35pm on 1 February and Stocktrades 
timeline says it removed the block on his account at 4.55pm. It phoned Mr B to tell him the 
block had been removed at 2.15pm the following day. It said that, although Mr B bought and 
sold V shares on 6 February, he still holds the shares he bought on 1 February. 
Stocktrade didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said the address in its records had been 
provided by S and it could only accept changes from S, as the account owner. It said it 
followed correct processes and procedures when it blocked Mr Bs account and that it 
removed the block within a short period of time. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Stocktrade has a 
responsibility to keep accurate records and that it was made aware on 22 December 2022 
that the address it held for Mr B was wrong. She thought it should have done more to make 
sure it held Mr Bs correct address and that, had it done so, Mr B would have been able to 
sell V shares when he phoned the dealing desk on 1 February. She recommended 
Stocktrade bought back the V shares from Mr B at 0.9301p, the price he was quoted online. 
And that it should pay Mr B £650 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Neither party agreed, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I didnt agree with the investigator that Stocktrade had caused Mr B a financial loss. But I did 
agree it had caused Mr B distress and inconvenience and that the £650 recommended by 
the investigator was fair and reasonable. I issued a provisional decision to explain why, and 
to give both parties the opportunity to provide further responses for me to consider. I said:
Mr B was given access to his account and had access to its online and telephone 
dealing service, by S. In accessing and dealing on his account, he was subject to 
Stocktrades account terms and conditions and its Third Party Investment Account 
(TPIA) Service Guide. 
Initial temporary account block 
On the morning of 1 February 2023, Mr B bought 1,500,000 V shares at 0.87p per 
share. Shortly after purchase, he wanted to take advantage of an increase in price 
and tried to sell the shares. He told us hed received an online quote of 0.9301p but 
that his attempt to sell was rejected. But I find its more likely that he placed a sale 
order and then rejected the quote. I say this because he mustve placed an order 
before he obtained a quote, and he would then have been given the opportunity to 
accept or reject that quote. 
Stocktrade told us that Mr B had asked for too many price quotes in a short space of 
time and so he was temporarily barred from placing further online orders. Mr B 
accepted this when he called the dealing desk. 
Stocktrades TPIA Service Guide says: 
If you carry out 2 orders in the same security online, and attempt another within a 30 
minute period, you will be stopped and presented with a warning message and you 
will not be permitted to deal further in that security until 30 minutes after your last 
order. (Page 6) 
I find that Stocktrade acted reasonably, and in line with its agreed terms, in 
temporarily stopping Mr B from dealing online in V shares. It didnt have any 
obligation to provide a further quote online after Mr B received and rejected two 
quotes in quick succession. Its only obligation, as outlined in its terms, was to 
provide a telephone trading facility. 
Telephone dealing desk 
Mr B phoned Stocktrades dealing desk to place a sale in V shares. The dealer asked 
Mr B various questions for security purposes. Unfortunately, Mr B, having recently 
moved, gave the dealer an incorrect postcode, which didnt match either his previous 
or his current address. But, as became clear later, in any event, Stocktrade didnt 
hold Mr Bs correct address because it had been given the wrong one. The dealer asked Mr B other questions which he successfully answered. Whilst the 
dealer didnt confirm that Mr B had passed security, he proceeded to ask, What are 
you looking to do on V? and Youre looking to sell how many?. He confirmed the 
price was about 0.88 at the moment. I think it more likely than not that the dealer 
would have taken Mr Bs sale instruction had he wanted to go ahead at that price. 
But Mr B said: 
Well, I was looking to sell but maybe now be as welI waiting because its dropped 
backto 88 to 90so I can see its maybe starting to go back up again so Ill maybe 
just wait. 
So I think Stocktrade would have accepted Mr Bs sale instructions during this call, 
but that he chose not to trade at the indication price the dealer gave him. This is 
further supported by the fact that the dealer said if Mr B wanted to trade within the 
next 30 minutes and the trading block was still on his account, just phone us and 
well do the trade for you immediately. So it would seem the problem with his 
address wasnt a barrier to him trading  until he was passed to Stocktrades 
administration team. 
Block placed on account due to address record 
Following his call with the dealing desk, Mr B was passed to Stocktrades 
administration team because of the address discrepancy. Stocktrade said it would 
have to place a block on Mr Bs account until the discrepancy could be resolved. 
From this point, he lost online access to his account, and couldnt trade by telephone. 
When Mr B moved house he contacted F to give it his new address. It was Fs 
responsibility to tell S, and in turn S was obliged to tell Stocktrade. In February 2023 
it wasnt clear why Stocktrade didnt hold the correct address. We know now that 
when Mr B phoned F and it read the address back to him, Mr B confirmed the details 
were correct, when they werent. The door number was wrong and there was a 
spelling mistake in the address. The wrong address was therefore passed onto S, 
and in turn to Stocktrade. So it wasnt Stocktrades fault that it recorded the wrong 
address for Mr B. 
But Mr B phoned Stocktrade in December 2022 to tell it that hed noticed his address 
was wrong when he received his annual statement. Stocktrade said it couldnt update 
his address without confirmation from S. Mr B said S wouldnt talk to him  it will only 
take instructions from F. Stocktrade said, in the circumstances, it would contact S. I 
can see that it emailed S on the same day to tell it what address Mr B had given it 
and to ask for confirmation from S that it should change the address in its systems. S 
didnt reply and Stocktrade took no further action. 
Ive thought about this carefully. I think Stocktrade could and should have done more 
to resolve this in December. It knew it held an inaccurate record for Mr B  it was 
satisfied that Mr B was the authorised third party on the account and it was satisfied 
that it was Mr B who had telephoned it with his address details. And, based on its 
actions in February, it probably should have blocked Mr Bs account in December 
when he made it aware of the address discrepancy. It reasonably needed Ss 
confirmation (as the account owner) to update the address and, knowing its records 
were most likely wrong, it should reasonably have followed up its email when it didnt 
hear anything. Or it should have told Mr B he would need to contact F or S to get the 
matter resolved. Had it done so, I think  based on what happened in February - it 
would have been able to update its records with Mr Bs correct home address within 
a reasonable timescale. And, whilst Mr B may have been in a worse position for a short while in December  his account should have been blocked then - the account 
wouldnt have been blocked in February. 
Mr B made many phone calls to Stocktrade, and to F, throughout the day on 2 
February. Its important to note that Mr B was a frequent trader on his account and 
his trading pattern shows he was frequently buying and selling the same stocks to try 
to make short term profits on his holdings. Consequently, he became increasingly 
distressed because he was unable to trade. 
Stocktrade did take steps to try to resolve this quickly for Mr B. Whilst it said it was 
Mr Bs responsibility to tell F his correct address, so that it could be passed to S and 
then to it, it contacted S on his behalf. 
S provided Stocktrade with Mr Bs correct address at 4.35pm on 1 February. 
Stocktrade updated its records and removed the trading suspension around 20 
minutes later. But it didnt contact Mr B to tell him the suspension had been lifted until 
2.15pm the following day. Its not been able to explain why it didnt contact Mr B 
earlier, particularly when it knew how distressed hed been and that he probably 
wanted to trade. In the circumstances I find Stocktrade should have tried to contact 
Mr B more urgently than it did to put his mind at rest that the issue had been sorted, 
and to allow him to trade. 
I need to consider whether Stocktrades failure to ensure Mr Bs address was 
updated at an earlier stage caused Mr B any financial, and non-financial, loss for 
which he should be compensated. 
Did Stocktrade cause Mr B a financial loss? 
Its clear Mr B was trading on a very frequent basis. His objective was to make short 
term profit by trading relatively high volumes in small cap stocks, aiming to buy low 
and sell high. The two stocks he says he would have traded if his account hadnt 
been blocked were both high volatility stocks, which often experienced large price 
movements across the trading day. The nature of these stocks, and their price 
movements, makes it difficult to say with any certainty exactly when Mr B would have 
traded, and what price he might have achieved  the market price not necessarily 
being available for the volume he wanted to trade. 
For V shares, I can see that on 2 February 2023, when Mr Bs account had been 
unblocked but Stocktrade hadnt told him, V shares opened at 0.9p and the high price 
for the day was 1.1p. Whilst Mr B might have traded had he known his account was 
unblocked, for me to conclude that Stocktrade caused him a financial loss, I would 
have to decide it was more likely than not that he would have accepted the price he 
was quoted and proceeded with an order to sell. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but, on 
balance, I cant reach that conclusion. I say this because for large parts of the day 
the price of V shares was lower than the price Mr V paid for them, the low price for 
the day being 0.62p. And, whilst the market price did rise above the price Mr B paid 
for short periods, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr B would have been able to 
sell his holding at that price. And, even if Mr B was quoted a price higher than the 
0.87p he purchased V shares for, he may not have accepted it - he didnt want to 
trade at 0.88p, the price given by the dealing desk. And he hadnt traded online when 
he was quoted 0.9301p. 
Turning to C shares, Mr B says that at 2.35pm on 1 February C made an 
announcement that led to a drop in price. Ive listened to the call recordings, and I 
can hear Mr B was very distressed that he could see the price of C falling, meaning his SIPP was losing value, but he couldnt do anything about it. Our investigator said 
there was no evidence Mr B wanted to place a sale. Mr B initially accepted the 
investigators view. But, when we told him Stocktrade didnt agree it was at fault, he 
asked that his loss on C, of around £15,000, be taken into account. 
Again, I cant conclude with any certainty that if Mr Bs account wasnt blocked that 
he would have sold C shares. The price fell away sharply following a news release 
and, had he been able to trade, he would have incurred a substantial loss. I dont 
think Mr B would have wanted to crystallise the large loss on his shares. I say that 
because the price of C shares recovered somewhat on the following day, once Mr B 
knew his account had been unblocked, but he didnt sell C shares then, which 
suggests to me that hed decided to hold onto the shares in the hope that the price 
would recover. I think its more likely than not that he wouldnt have sold the shares 
at such a large loss if hed been able to during the period his account was blocked, or 
he understood it to be blocked because Stocktrade hadnt told him it had been 
unblocked. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont find Stocktrade is obliged to compensate Mr B for any financial 
loss. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Mr B spent most of the day on 1 February on the phone to Stocktrade trying to 
resolve the address discrepancy. He became very distressed, and the suspension of 
his account had a severe impact on his wellbeing. Whilst Stocktrade did take steps to 
try to resolve the matter, once it was resolved it didnt act quickly enough to let Mr B 
know. The investigator recommended Stocktrade pay Mr B £650 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused, and I find this to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In arriving at this conclusion, Ive taken into account 
that it wasnt Stocktrades fault that it held the wrong address for Mr B. And, in all 
likelihood, it should have blocked his account in December when it knew it held the 
wrong address. Had it acted correctly in December, it would have prevented the 
issues Mr B complains about in February, but Mr B would have found himself in a 
similar situation in December and Stocktrade would not have been at fault. But the 
delay in telling Mr B his account had been unblocked meant he was caused distress 
for a longer period than he should have.
Responses to my provisional decision
Stocktrade said £650 compensation was too high. Whilst it accepted what happened was 
stressful for Mr B, it said it gave him correct advice on how his details should be updated; 
that it went outside of its standard process to help Mr B; and that, whilst it could have told 
Mr B sooner that the block had been removed, it still acted within a reasonable timescale.
Mr B responded in detail, and I wont repeat everything hes said here although I will respond 
to what I consider to be his key points in the section below. In summary, he didnt agree with 
my provisional decision and thought it contained some wrong facts. He thought if Stocktrade 
had done what it said it would do in December 2022, then things wouldnt have gone wrong 
in February 2023. And he maintained he would have sold V shares at a profit and would 
have sold C shares before the price fell away and should be compensated for that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted in my provisional decision, there is a considerable amount of information here. 
Mr B has provided a very detailed response to my provisional decision. I have read and 
considered his further submissions in their entirety, but I cant respond to every point hes 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive used sub-headings for ease of reading.
Stocktrades misrepresentation of facts, missing evidence, and responsibility of F and S
Mr B says three businesses were involved here and all made mistakes, but he is being 
blamed for what went wrong. And he is concerned that Stocktrade has been selective in its 
evidence and has misrepresented what happened.
I appreciate the change of address process involved F and S as well as Stocktrade. For the 
purposes of this decision, I can only consider the actions of Stocktrade and what it has or 
hasnt done wrong. 
I dont find Stocktrade has purposely misrepresented anything here and its provided the 
records and evidence that weve decided we need to complete our investigation. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B feels he is being blamed for what went wrong. Whilst he unfortunately agreed the 
address details with F when it was wrongly read back to him, I realise this is because he 
mis-heard it, which is an easy mistake to make. And he took steps  such as contacting 
Stocktrade direct in December 2022 to give it his correct address, and phoning S to try to get 
it to communicate with Stocktrade when his account was blocked  to try to resolve the 
situation. As noted above, my role here is to decide if Stocktrade, rather than Mr B, did 
anything wrong.
Failure to sell V shares online 
I accept what Mr B says about the reason for not selling V shares online at 0.903p. I had 
previously concluded it was more likely than not that he had placed a sale order and rejected 
the quote. But Mr B says hed accepted the quote and the order didnt go through due to 
price movements. I accept this is probably the more likely explanation. But Stocktrade wasnt 
obliged to accept Mr Bs online order, especially when the market for the shares was volatile. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I find Stocktrade acted in line with its terms and 
conditions when it instructed Mr B to phone its dealing desk if he wanted to trade.
Phone call with the dealing desk
Mr B says the dealer should have told him his address was slightly inaccurate, rather than 
saying it didnt hold any of the addresses Mr B provided. He says he wouldve sold V shares 
at 0.88 had he known his account was going to be blocked for the rest of the day but that its 
wrong to assume the dealer would have placed the order because hed failed to pass its 
security questions. I dont find there was an obligation on the dealing desk to try to resolve the problem with 
Mr Bs address or to suggest to him that there may only be a minor error. It correctly passed 
Mr B to its administration team so that it could investigate and agree what action was 
necessary.
Mr B says he didnt pass Stocktrades security and so wouldnt have been able to give a 
phone order. I dont agree. The dealer asked him some alternative questions and, as I set 
out in my provisional decision, he asked what Mr B was looking to do and provided him with 
a quote. I am persuaded the dealer would have placed an order for the sale of V shares if 
Mr B had accepted the quote. So I think Stocktrade treated Mr B fairly in the circumstances.
Inability to sell C shares
Mr B says he didnt initially ask for his loss on C shares to be taken into account because he 
was so anxious about the situation, and he wasnt thinking straight. Im sorry this wasnt what 
I reflected in my provisional decision and Im happy to correct that here. I do understand how 
anxious Mr B was and the impact this situation has had on his wellbeing. And I can see how 
he could easily have forgotten to consider everything initially and only collected his thoughts 
as time has gone on.
Mr B says he would have sold C shares on the afternoon of 1 February when the price was 
continuously falling, in the hope of buying back later at a lower price. He says he didnt sell C 
shares when the price recovered to some extent on 2 February because he thought the 
impact of the bad news had largely been reflected in the share price and that this was a fair 
assumption at the time. 
Ive reconsidered this carefully, but Im still not able to conclude with certainty that Mr B 
would have sold C shares for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision  the price of C 
fell away sharply on the afternoon of 1 February, and I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve 
wanted to crystallise such a large loss. I think it more likely than not that he would have held 
his shares in the hope of recovery.
December 2022 call to change address
Mr B says that he didnt call Stocktrade in December 2022 to tell it his address was incorrect, 
he phoned it to provide it with his new address. Stocktrade said it would contact S and that it 
would arrange to get the address amended. If it had done that, the situation would have 
been resolved and his account wouldnt have been blocked in February. He says too much 
emphasis has been placed on him accepting the address when it was read back to him by F; 
but hed given Stocktrade his correct address.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Stocktrade should have done more in 
December 2022 to make sure it had Mr Bs up to date address correctly recorded. Neither 
party has provided any new information that has caused me to change that conclusion. Im 
satisfied that Stocktrade contacted S. But, when it didnt hear back, it didnt follow it up. It 
says this was outside of its usual procedure. I dont think thats reasonable. It had said it 
would confirm the address with S. It should have followed this up with S when it didnt 
receive a response to its email. Or it should have contacted Mr B to tell him so that he could 
contact F. It should also have reasonably realised at this stage that thered been an error 
with the communication of the new address.
Delay in communicating lifting of the account blockMr B says Stocktrade should have contacted him as soon as the block had been lifted. He 
might have been able to sell V shares at a profit if hed been told the block had been 
removed.
Stocktrade says it notified Mr B within a reasonable timescale.
I havent changed my conclusion about this. I dont think theres enough evidence to show 
Mr B couldve sold V shares at a profit if hed been told the block had been removed. But, 
knowing the high level of distress the blocking of the account was causing Mr B, Stocktrade 
should have acted with urgency to let him know when the account was unblocked.
Complaint resolution and offer
Mr B says Stocktrade phoned him several weeks after he complained to ask what he was 
looking for to resolve matters. He was told Stocktrade would compensate him if it had done 
anything wrong, but he never heard from the team again. Stocktrade hasnt provided a 
recording of this call.
I dont find this process unusual. Businesses will often call consumers who have raised a 
complaint to try to understand more about it and to see if it can be resolved. Stocktrade 
wasnt wrong to say it would compensate him if it had done anything wrong. The call took 
place before the final response was sent to Mr B and the final response was essentially the 
follow up to the phone call. Stocktrade didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it didnt 
make Mr B an offer. Whilst I dont agree with that conclusion, I dont find the process of 
phoning Mr B to discuss the complaint was wrong; and I dont find Stocktrade made an offer 
of compensation which it now needs to honour.
My final conclusions
Overall, I think Stocktrade should have done more in December 2022 when it knew it held 
the wrong address for Mr B; and in February 2023 when it should have told him more quickly 
that his account had been unblocked. It knows how much this upset Mr B and the resulting 
impact on his health and well-being. For that reason my conclusion remains unchanged that 
Stocktrade should pay Mr B £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
And, whilst Ive reconsidered whether Stocktrade is responsible for compensating Mr B for 
the financial loss he says he made because his account was blocked, my conclusion 
remains unchanged. For the reasons Ive explained, I cant conclude with certainty that Mr B 
would have traded V shares or C shares if his account wasnt blocked.
My final decision
My final decision is that Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as Stocktrade, should 
pay Mr B £650. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman