DRN-3430718
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to  
Mr B.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, not all the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Mr B has said that he didnt want or need the PPI. He says it was just presented as a 
requirement of the mortgage, and included as one of the costs alongside house insurance 
and endowment insurance. 
Mr B says he had savings that were equivalent to 17 months of his salary, and that it was 
unlikely hed have been made redundant  and if he had, his long service would have meant 
a large redundancy pay out. 
If Bank of Scotland didnt made clear to Mr B that he had a choice, this would have been 
wrong and Id say the PPI was mis-sold. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that 
this happened, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle 
of fairness, where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something 
wrong, there usually needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt normally be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. But I dont have that evidence. 
There is a document in which the costs were presented altogether, but that doesnt mean it 
wasnt made clear there was a choice  it would be usual at some stage to have a single 
summary of the overall costs of everything that had been selected. And, as Ive explained 
already, I cant fairly rely solely on what Mr B now remembers happening. 
Ive looked at other ways the PPI might have been mis-sold. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Bs 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr B was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. Mr B told us he was entitled to 3 months 
employer sick pay: but the PPI would have covered him for up to 24 months. The PPI 
would also have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And 
it would have put off the time when Mr B would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mr B in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr B couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And he could have cancelled the policy if this 
changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr B to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming he understood that he had a choice 
about it  which I accept he is saying wasnt the case).
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr B would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Overall I dont have enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman