DRN-1610753
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited gave him incorrect information 
about his premium and didnt cancel his motor insurance policy as requested. He wants it to 
waive the balance outstanding.
What happened
Mr G obtained a quote online and then took out a policy through Bollington, but he said this 
wasnt finalised. He then found that the policy was more expensive than hed been told and 
cancelled the policy after one day. But he was still charged for his time on cover by the 
policys underwriter and a cancellation fee by Bollington. Bollington said Mr G had sent his 
cancellation request to the wrong department. It said the insurer charged a minimum time on 
risk fee, which had been applied correctly. But if waived its cancellation charge and set-up 
fee as a gesture of good will.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Bollington hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr G replied that the insurance was more expensive than hed been quoted by Bollington.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr G got a quote online, he called Bollington to take out the policy. Ive listened to this 
call. His quote for his car policy was confirmed as £201.38. Mr G said his previous policy ran 
out that day. He asked for his policy documents to be posted to him. The agent went through 
the policy details. Mr G said he paid his premium in instalments. The agent put Mr G on hold 
while he looked into the premium. 
The total cost, with No Claims Discount protection and payment by instalments was £279.04 
or a one-off payment of £237.43. Mr G agreed to go ahead. The agent said the price 
included its £40 arrangement fee. He then went on to tell Mr G about its cancellation and 
other charges. 
I can see that these charges are also set out in Mr Gs policy documents that were then 
posted to him. I can also see that the premium quoted in his policy documents is £237.43. 
The details of his direct debit instalments were set out in his credit agreement, also included 
in the Welcome Pack.
The agent then went through the direct debit arrangements to pay the instalments. Mr G 
agreed 10 monthly direct debits of about £25. He agreed for the agent to set up the credit 
agreement. 
Ive seen the credit agreement and I can see that the monthly direct debits are as the agent 
had told Mr G. So I dont agree with Mr G that the policy was more expensive than hed been 
told. 
Mr G said the policy wasnt finalised. But I disagree. He paid a deposit, set up direct debit 
payments and Ive seen evidence that Bollington sent the policy documents to him. 
Two days later, Mr G called to cancel his policy. But the agent couldnt deal with this and 
another agent called Mr G two days later to discuss this, but without success. Bollingtons 
files say that the agent left a voicemail message, but Mr G didnt return the call. 
In the meantime, Mr G had sent an email to cancel his policy to Bollingtons partner 
business. This wasnt received by Bollington. When Bollington later sought to validate the 
policy, Mr G said hed cancelled it after one day. He wanted all his deposit returned. 
I think Bollington very reasonably discussed the cancellation with the policys underwriter 
and it agreed to backdate the cancellation to the date Mr G had first called to cancel his 
policy. This meant that Mr G had cover for two days and Bollington said the insurer would 
charge a minimum payment for this. 
The complaint I am considering here is against the broker, Bollington. If Mr G is unhappy 
with the insurers charge for his time on cover, then he should firstly complain to it directly. 
Im unable to consider this further as the insurer is a separate business. 
Mr G had paid a deposit of about £23. The insurer charged about £38. I think Bollington 
generously waived its £40 policy arrangement fee and its £50 cancellation fee. So Mr G 
owed it £15.46. I think this is correct, but I can see that Bollington later waived this as well. I 
think thats very fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require Bollington to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman