DRN-1562138
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr T had a legal expenses insurance policy with Ageas. He made a claim, which was 
accepted and a panel solicitor was appointed to act on his behalf. Mr T wasn't happy with 
the solicitor appointed, and asked to move to a solicitor more local to him and could meet. 
Mr T was told that he could choose his own solicitor, and that the costs of both solicitors 
would be covered. But Mr T later found out that the costs cap of the policy and the fixed 
costs regime of the courts applied to the costs of both solicitors, which means that if he did 
change solicitor, the new solicitor would inherit the costs of the previous solicitor and the 
ability to recover costs from the other side if successful was limited. Mr T felt this prevented 
him from moving to a solicitor of his own choice.
Mr T complained to Ageas. It explained why the solicitors had advised Mr T as they had and 
said that he could complain to them directly. Ageas confirmed that Mr T could change his 
solicitors as proceedings were underway, but warned that a solicitor mightn't accept the case 
as the proceedings were at a late stage and a change would cause delay. Ageas also said 
that the costs of the appointed solicitor would be covered by the policy, and any new 
solicitors would have to agree to protect the costs of the first appointed solicitor.
Mr T complained to us, and after investigating alternatives, decided not to appoint his own 
choice of solicitor as the trial date was looming, and no panel solicitor had been offered. 
Ageas said that it wasn't willing to offer a new panel solicitor as it didn't agree that the first 
solicitors had acted unreasonably or caused unnecessary delay; it also noted that Mr T 
wasn't happy about having to take a new solicitor through the history and changing solicitors 
would increase costs. It accepted that Mr T had the right to appoint his choice of solicitor, but 
said there was no right to require a new panel solicitor be appointed by Ageas.
The investigator's view was that when there was a breakdown in the relationship between 
the policyholder and the appointed solicitors for the first time during cover, this service would 
normally expect another panel solicitor to be offered as a replacement. This was because 
the time needed to investigate the first solicitors could be lengthy and delay could adversely 
affect the underlying claim. She said that Ageas hadn't tried to find a replacement panel 
solicitor, which the investigator felt was unfair and unreasonable. She said Ageas caused Mr 
T trouble and upset as a result, and caused him to try and find his own solicitors which was 
difficult due to the work already carried out. The investigator said Ageas should pay Mr T 
£200 compensation.
Mr T disagreed. He said £200 wasn't enough to punish or fine Ageas; the investigator 
explained that the purpose of compensation for non-financial loss was to deal with the 
impact of failings by financial businesses, not to punish them.
Ageas also disagreed. It said it told Mr T in June 2019 that he could appoint his own solicitor, 
and the same reasons why a non-panel solicitor wasn't instructed were likely to be the reasons why a new panel solicitor couldn't have been appointed. Ageas said it had now 
contacted a panel solicitor, who said that they probably wouldn't have taken on the case due 
to the work already done. It also made a number of comments about the view, and said 
changing solicitors would've delayed the claim further, which wasn't in Mr T's best interests 
and would've increased costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to Ageas, I'm also referring 
to its agents. I'm not able to deal with Mr T's complaints about the solicitors as they're not 
regulated financial businesses; Mr T needs to raise his complaint with the firm direct and can 
then go to the Legal Ombudsman if he remains unhappy.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Ageas has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
It's worth pointing out that Ageas is an insurer and isn't responsible for the actions of 
solicitors (though this doesn't mean it doesn't have to assist a policyholder who is unhappy 
with the appointed solicitor, and I see Ageas raised with the solicitors Mr T's concerns). The 
policy sets out that there's a costs cap of £100,000 for each event dealt with to be used 
towards legal costs, which also includes the costs of the other side if the claim is 
unsuccessful.  While Mr T didn't want to stay with the appointed solicitors, this doesn't mean 
that the costs cap no longer applies. I note Mr T was told more than once that the costs of 
the appointed solicitors would be covered by the policy if he changed representatives.
The question is whether it's fair and reasonable for the cap to be applied. Given that it was 
set out clearly within the policy, and there appears to be money left to be used for legal 
costs, I think in all the circumstances that it was fair and reasonable for the insurer to apply 
it. Ageas must ensure that the appointed solicitors are paid, and if no recovery is made 
through the proceedings (or insufficient as Mr T's case is a fixed costs track case), it's 
Ageas who will pay the costs. As Ageas isn't responsible for the actions of the solicitors, and 
raised Mr T's concerns with them, I don't think it's fair Ageas should end up paying more 
than a total of £100,000.
Mr T is concerned about the fact any new solicitor would have to agree to protect the costs 
of the old solicitor. This is an entirely standard procedure - the case file won't be handed 
over to the new solicitors by the old ones unless a promise to ensure they get paid is 
received. As work has been done by the appointed solicitors, they are entitled to insist this 
standard procedure is followed.
But from looking at all the evidence available to me, it doesn't seem to me that Ageas has 
acted as this service would expect when Mr T complained about the appointed solicitors. I 
can see that he did so at two points in time according to the contact notes - May 2017 and 
May 2019. In May 2017, Mr T was told that it was unlikely any new solicitor would take the 
case and the costs of the previous solicitor were covered by the policy. In May 2019, this 
was repeated. I can't see that Ageas made any effort to find out if another panel solicitor 
would take on the case either time. 
I think that once it became clear the relationship between Mr T and the appointed solicitors 
had broken down by May 2019, Ageas should've tried to find out if another panel solicitor 
would act, particularly as it was clear how anxious Mr T was about dealing with the 
appointed solicitors. By May 2019, the trial date hadn't been set (it was set in July to be 
heard in January 2020), and there would've been time to take over the claim. I agree costs 
might've been a concern, as well the point that Mr T wasn't willing to accept the legal advice given, but without trying, there's no way to know if another panel solicitor would act; Ageas 
simply assumed that they wouldn't. This isn't fair or reasonable.
Ageas says that the reasons why a non-panel solicitor wasn't instructed are likely to be the 
reasons why a panel solicitor wouldn't have accepted the case. I disagree. First, the non-
panel solicitor Mr T approached was contacted in December 2019, about a month before 
trial. That's extremely late to take on a case, and regarded as "very high risk" as the 
solicitors themselves pointed out. Taking on a case in June is different, particularly as the 
trial date hadn't been set. And the non-panel solicitors wanted a lump sum payment in 
advance to take on the case; any new panel solicitors wouldn't make such a request as their 
contractual payment arrangements with Ageas would already be in place.
Ageas says that it contacted a panel solicitor (it seems just before trial) who said they 
probably would've refused to take the case. This misses the point that Ageas should've done 
this by June 2019, and the failure to do so caused Mr T trouble and upset. Ageas may 
well've been correct in saying no panel solicitor would take the case, but without trying, it left 
Mr T to his own devices. This wasn't a situation where it was clear no panel solicitor would 
act at the time.
And it isn't for Ageas to decide what is in Mr T's best interests or to say changing to a 
solicitor in whom Mr T had confidence was an unnecessary cost. If in 2017 it had checked to 
see if another panel solicitor would act, the costs incurred due to the change would've been 
lower, and by 2019 the relationship had utterly broken down. The relationship between a 
client and solicitor is fundamental - this is why once proceedings have been issued (or at 
about to be issued), the client has the right to choose their own representative and solicitors 
have the right to withdraw.
I also think that if Mr T had been offered a new panel solicitor in May 2019, he would've 
accepted the offer as he didn't immediately source his own choice of solicitor when he 
received the final response letters from Ageas. Having considered the evidence available to 
me, it's clear that Mr T was very upset about Ageas' failure to assist him and he clearly didn't 
have any trust in his solicitors (which is essential for the client-solicitor relationship). While 
money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered, I think £200 is fair and 
reasonable for the suffering caused by Ageas' failure to seek another panel solicitors 
promptly, particularly as Mr T hasn't said he should receive more compensation due to his 
suffering, but only to punish Ageas (which isn't my role).
Putting things right
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Mr T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mr 
T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman