DRN-3568582
The complaint and background
Mr D complained to Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) about the charges that had 
been applied to his account for using his overdraft, he said that he had been experiencing 
financial difficulties since 2017 and that Halifax had not done enough to help him.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, it said any charges had been applied fairly and noted 
that it had offered Mr D the assistance of its money management team as well as doing 
some refunds and temporarily suspending charges and interest. As Mr D was dissatisfied 
with Halifaxs response, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he felt 
Halifax should have realised Mr D might be struggling financially by March 2017 and so 
recommended that it refund all charges and interest applied from that point onwards. Halifax 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 26 May 2022, setting out what I thought 
Halifax needed to do to resolve this complaint. Mr D responded with further comments about 
his circumstances since 2017, Halifax responded with further comments around why it thinks 
Mr Ds account did not show signs of financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that Halifax was wrong to continue applying 
charges and interest throughout 2017 and early 2018, but by October 2018 I think Halifax 
should have taken proactive steps to stop Mr Ds situation from deteriorating further. Ill 
explain my reasons for this decision.
Mr D has a current account with Halifax with an arranged overdraft facility of £2600, this 
overdraft facility was reviewed yearly in February. So if Halifax was to identify any financial 
difficulties, and then step in to offer help to Mr D, I would expect this to happen around the 
time of each overdraft review, unless there was a specific incident at another time in the year 
which I think should have alerted Halifax to any difficulties.
Mr D says that in 2017 he began to experience a period of financial difficulty. And I can see 
that throughout 2017 and early 2018 Mr Ds account was consistently overdrawn, without 
any periods where it maintained a credit balance. This is something that could be an 
indicator of financial difficulty. But I also have to acknowledge that throughout this period 
Mr Ds account was regularly receiving significant credits  often over £4,000 per month  
and saw regular spending on what appeared to be non-essential items, for example at pubs 
and restaurants, as well as overseas transactions. All this means that I dont think there was 
enough to flag to Halifax when it reviewed his overdraft facility in February 2017 or in 
February 2018 that Mr D might be struggling financially or need help managing his account.
However, in July 2018 Mr D made contact with Halifax to say that he was now struggling 
financially, and this was echoed in a significant reduction in the credits coming into his 
account. At this time Halifax went through Mr Ds income and expenditure with him and 
identified a significant deficit  his essential expenditure was far in excess of his income. 
Halifax says that it suggested that Mr D close his account and move the balance to the 
banks recoveries department, but that Mr D declined this as he didnt want his credit file 
affected. At this time Halifax also suspended fees and charges on Mr Ds account to give 
him some breathing space. When that fee-free period ended, Halifax says it wrote to Mr D 
about his account but received no response.
I think that offering advice and suspending fees and charges for a period of time was an 
appropriate temporary measure and so Im satisfied that Halifax did act fairly and reasonably 
when Mr D initially got in contact to say he was struggling. But Ive also considered the 
conduct of Mr Ds account after this temporary measure expired. Ive done this because 
even though Mr D might have refused longer-term assistance and not proactively contacted 
Halifax after the charges began to be applied again, I dont think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Halifax not to have imposed a longer-term solution on Mr Ds overdraft had 
his account conduct indicated continued financial difficulty. 
In this case, the fee-free period on Mr Ds account came to an end in October 2018, and I 
think a cursory look at Mr Ds statements at that time would have shown that Mr D had made 
no progress in reducing his overdraft limit in the time since hed first contacted Halifax about 
his difficulties. By this time Mr D was still hardcore borrowing  he hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time  and was still earning a significantly reduced 
income, he was also seeing payments being returned because there were not enough funds 
to cover them. So I think that Mr Ds overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have 
realised that he was still struggling financial and so might have trouble paying his overdraft 
back in a sustainable way, and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
I acknowledge that Mr D did go on to temporarily clear his overdraft at a later date after 
apparently being given some money by a family member, but I dont think that has any 
bearing on the fact that Halifax should have taken steps to deal with the clear issues in how 
Mr Ds account was being managed in 2018. Especially as Mr D would have paid significant 
amounts of interest, fees and charges for the privilege of being allowed to defer dealing with 
his problem debt. 
As Halifax didnt react to Mr Ds overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. Mr D ended up paying additional interest, 
fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended up exacerbating difficulties he already had 
in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt treat Mr D fairly and that he lost out because 
of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it should put things right
I appreciate Mr D taking the time to provide some further comments following my provisional 
decision, and I would like to reassure him that I have carefully considered all he has told us 
about the difficult circumstances hes experienced since 2017. Ive also thought about what 
hes said about how difficult he found it getting help from Halifax. But I remain satisfied that 
prior to October 2018 there werent clear signs of financial difficulty on Mr Ds account that 
should have flagged to Halifax that he needed help.I also appreciate Halifaxs additional comments, but having thought about all that Halifax has 
said, my position on this complaint remains unchanged. Halifax has noted that when Mr D 
contacted it in July 2018, although there had been some reduction in the credits to the 
account, he was still receiving significant credits. Halifax also says that this suggests the 
figure of £1,000 for income Mr D gave when he completed the income and expenditure form 
was incorrect as the credits to his account between July and August 2018 were much higher 
than that.
But looking at Mr Ds account statements I dont agree with what Halifax has said. Yes, in 
that three month period Mr D did receive around £9,000 into his account, but the bulk of that 
was in June, before Mr D told Halifax that he was now experiencing financial difficulties. And 
in July, August and September 2018 his income  meaning what he actually earned from 
working or benefits, and excluding what appear to be ad-hoc payments into his account from 
his father  was around £1,000 per month. And in October his only income seems to have 
been around £700 in cash that he deposited into his account.
And, as explained in my provisional decision, it is at this point  in October 2018  that I think 
Halifax should have stepped in. Mr D hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for at least 
two years, had seen a significant reduction in income, had told Halifax that his personal 
circumstances at that time meant he was experiencing financial difficulties, and had shown 
no improvement in his financial situation over the three months since he had first told Halifax 
of his difficulties. I acknowledge that there was some inessential spending on the account, 
but I dont think that was enough, in light of everything else going on with the account, to say 
that Mr D wasnt experiencing financial difficulties.
So while I acknowledge Halifaxs comments here, nothing it has said changes my decision 
that Mr D has been treated unfairly. And I remain satisfied that it is fair to direct Halifax to 
resolve this complaint by taking the steps set out below.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr D is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Halifax to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ds credit file, Halifax should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 2018. 
Halifax can also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr D over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. Halifax can also 
reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part, and direct Bank Of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman