DRN-3998226
The complaint
Mr M and Ms L are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy. The policy was purchased on 
15 October 2021 and covered a holiday Mr M and Ms L were due to go on between 
18 November 2021 and 23 November 2021. The policy provided cover for various 
pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr M and Ms L have explained that on 17 November 2021, they started experiencing the 
symptoms of Covid-19. So, they took lateral flow tests. These returned positive results. 
Because of this, Mr M and Ms L then ordered PCR tests. But, given the relevant government 
rules and guidance at the time, were no longer able to travel. 
Because of this, Mr M and Ms L have explained that they contacted their holiday provider, to 
see if they could amend their trip dates. But they were told this wasnt possible. So, they 
contacted AXA, to make a claim under their travel insurance policy.
Mr M and Ms L explained they spoke to AXA and explained the situation  this being they 
had completed lateral flow tests and the PCR tests were pending. Theyve said the AXA 
representative explained this was fine, and a claim for the lost holiday was covered, and a 
claims pack would be sent out for Mr M and Ms L to complete.
Mr M and Ms L completed this pack. And in December 2021 AXA provided an outcome of 
the claim. It declined it. AXA let Mr M and Ms L know that in order to accept their claim, they 
would have needed to provide written evidence of them not being fit to travel, prior to 
departure. For example, medical evidence from a doctor or evidence of a positive Covid-19 
test in an official format. It said pictures of the positive lateral flow test werent sufficient 
evidence, as these couldnt be assigned specifically to Mr M and Ms L and didnt evidence 
this as Mr M and Ms Ls specific results.
Mr M and Ms L were dissatisfied with this. So, they raised a complaint about the matter. AXA 
maintained its position. Because Mr M and Ms L remained dissatisfied, they referred their 
complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should upheld. They said that 
Mr M and Ms Ls policy covered the cancellation of a trip due to issues such as policyholder 
illness. But, that confirmation from a medical practitioner was needed to claim for this. Our 
investigator said that Mr M and Ms L hadnt provided this evidence. So, she said it wasnt 
unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Our investigator also noted Mr M and Ms Ls concern that AXA didnt tell them they needed 
to register their lateral flow test with the NHS in their initial conversation. They said they 
hadnt been able to listen to the call. But they didnt think it was down to AXA to explain this, 
as reporting the result to the NHS was already expected of the general public.
Mr M and Ms L didnt agree. In summary they said:
It wasnt possible to visit a GP to get medical evidence of being unfit to travel, given 
they had Covid-19. And they didnt contact the NHS 111 service as they didnt need 
any medical assistance.
They thought their lateral flow tests had been registered, in order for them to order 
PCR tests, as they had to say they had received a positive lateral flow result when 
ordering these. And questioned whether this counted as registering the results.
If they had known they needed to register the result differently, they would have done 
so.
That they were told on the phone with AXA that they didnt need to do anything else 
but await their PCR results. These however came back negative, as they noted the 
virus must not have been present at that point. 
Because Mr M and Ms L didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AXA acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr M and Ms Ls claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr M and Ms Ls policy documentation. From doing so, I can see the 
policy does provide cover for the need to cancel a trip. However, as is common with 
insurance policies of this nature, the reason for cancellation needs to be because of one of 
the events listed in the policy  such as due to illness. And the policy highlights that to make 
a claim under this section of the policy, where relevant, the policyholder must provide:
Confirmation from a medical practitioner that you or your travelling companions are not 
fit to travel.
This is made sufficiently clear within the policy documentation and isnt an unusual 
requirement. So, Ive needed to consider whether AXA acted reasonably in saying that 
Mr M and Ms L needed to provide this information and didnt. And so, their claim wouldnt be 
settled.
Having considered this, I do think AXA acted fairly. It is the duty of a policyholder to evidence 
their claim. So, it isnt unreasonable for AXA to require the above evidence from 
Mr M and Ms L. Mr M and Ms L didnt provide any evidence from a medical practitioner of 
being unfit to travel. In the absence of this evidence, Im satisfied it was reasonable to AXA 
to note sufficient evidence hadnt been provided of an insured event, and so the claim 
wouldnt be settled.
I understand Mr M and Ms L did provide photographic evidence of positive lateral flow 
results. Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to have accepted 
this as evidence of Mr M and Ms L being unfit to travel, in the absence of evidence from a 
medical practitioner. But I dont think it would have been. AXA has noted this information doesnt evidence that the tests were Mr M and Ms Ls. I agree. It doesnt specifically link the 
tests to Mr M and Ms L. 
AXA has said it would accept other evidence  such as official documentation showing a 
positive test result being registered with the NHS. I think this was fair in the circumstances of 
this case. But Mr M and Ms L havent provided any other official documentation. So, I dont 
think AXA acted unfairly in declining the claim, based on the information it did have. 
Mr M and Ms L have said they when they spoke to AXA, they werent told they needed to do 
anything, other than await their PCR results, and send in the relevant claim forms. So, they 
werent told they would need to register positive lateral flow tests with the NHS. 
Mr M and Ms L said if they had been told this, they would have officially logged the test 
results. And had evidence of them being unfit to travel.
As detailed by our investigator, we havent received a call recording of this conversation, 
despite this being requested. Whilst it would have been useful to listen to this call recording, 
Im satisfied that listening to the call wouldnt make a difference to the overall outcome of this 
complaint. 
I say this because even if AXA didnt tell Mr M and Ms L to register their lateral flow results 
with the NHS, I dont think this would mean it did anything wrong. I dont think it was AXAs 
responsibility to inform Mr M and Ms L of this. And, looking at the government rules and 
guidance at the time, this was clear that positive lateral flow tests should be registered with 
the NHS. AXAs obligation was to register the claim, and consider it, and not unreasonably 
decline it. And this is what its done. 
Mr M and Ms L have said they wouldnt have been able to get other evidence to prove their 
claim. They said they couldnt have gone to their GP, given they had symptoms of Covid-19 
and wouldnt be let into the surgery. And they didnt call NHS 111, as they didnt need 
medical assistance. I accept that these are examples of ways Mr M and Ms L could have got 
evidence from a medical practitioner of being unfit to travel. But I dont accept these were the 
only ways. And this point doesnt change that Mr M and Ms L havent provided the 
necessary information to AXA.
Mr M and Ms L have said when they ordered their PCT testing kits this asked whether they 
had tested positive for Covid-19, and they had answered yes. So, they consider this to be 
them registering their test result. But I dont agree. Rather, they answered a question when 
going through an ordering process. The relevant government and NHS websites detailed 
how to log a positive test result. So, Im satisfied this information was available for 
Mr M and Ms L. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the 
policy terms, when declining Mr M and Ms Ls claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman