DRN-2920144
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to provide clear information 
that certain shares could not be purchased on the Smart Investor platform.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S purchased shares in O using Barclays Smart Investor platform. In 
December 2019, Mr S decided to buy more shares in O but was unable to purchase them 
through the Smart Investor Platform. Mr S says Barclays should have placed a clear note on 
the dealing page to explain that these shares were no long available to purchase. He says 
he lost out financially, as by the time he approached another broker the share price had 
risen.
Mr S maintains that Barclays failed to act in accordance with the Principles for Businesses, 
in particular he says Barclays failed to act with all due care, skill and diligence (2), failed to 
pay due regard to his interests (6), failed to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading (7) and failed to act in his best interests (COBS 2.1.1). He feels strongly that 
he should be compensated for the difference in share price.
Barclays say they provide an execution only service to retail customers and they decide 
which products and services to offer. Whilst shares in O had been available to purchase at 
the time Mr S first invested, the position changed in August 2019 when O moved from the 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) to the Specialist Fund Segment (SFM). Securities on 
this segment are deemed appropriate for institutional and professional investors not retail 
investors. Accordingly, Barclays permitted selling of shares held in O but removed the option 
to buy shares in O. Barclays say they were entitled to take this step as it was in the best 
interests of their retail clients. Further, it was clear that the shares could not be purchased as 
no buy option was provided on the platform. Customers were able to call or use the chat 
function if they required further information. Barclays maintain that it would not practicable to 
notify customers about changes to every investment across the platform as segment and 
market changes happen frequently. Barclays offered Mr S £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. Barclays provided an execution only service and it was for them to decide what 
notification service to provide. Barclays wouldnt have known Mr Ss investment plans or 
have been able to predict how changes might have impacted him. Barclays had a duty to 
protect all their customers and there was a limit on the communications they had to provide. 
Mr S was treated the same as other customers. In this instance Mr S would have been 
aware that the shares were unavailable, as the buy option was greyed out. Our investigator 
took into account that even if clearer information had been available on the website, Mr S 
still wouldnt have been able to purchase the shares through Barclays.
Mr S disagrees with the view. He maintains that Barclays failed to act in his best interests. 
Further, it was not enough for Barclays to grey out the option to buy. The failure to notify 
him of a permanent suspension in buying these shares was grossly unfair. 
Mr S has clarified that his complaint is not that he should have received a notice some time 
prior to his attempt to buy the shares but that a notice should have popped up when he tried 
to buy them. He says it is for our service to say when commercial decisions are wrong and 
should be altered.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its helpful to explain the role of this service. We provide an independent, 
informal, dispute resolution service. We have no disciplinary or regulatory powers. That 
means we cannot tell a business how to operate or take any punitive action against a 
business; that is the role of the regulator. We assess each case on its own merits and we 
consider things on a fair and reasonable basis.
Id like to reassure Mr S that I have considered carefully all the points hes raised, but the 
core facts in this matter are not in dispute. Mr S held shares in O and wished to purchase 
more. He was unable to do so on the Smart Investor platform. Having seen that the buy 
option was greyed out, Mr S called Barclays and was advised that further purchases of O 
shares would not be possible as it had changed segment to a specialist fund segment. Mr S 
then complained as he felt ought to have been notified of this change. Mr S purchased the 
shares through another broker the following day.
Its clear that Mr S was disappointed and frustrated at being unable to purchase more shares 
in O through the Smart Investor platform. But ultimately it was for Barclays to decide which 
stock to make available on the platform for retail customers. And as this was an execution 
only service, Barclays wasnt required to provide any advice or recommendations to 
consumers using the platform. There was no requirement to notify consumers of changes to 
availability of stock.
The Key Information Document for shares in O supports Barclays assertion that the shares 
were intended for institutional, professional and professionally advised investors, following 
the segment change in August 2019. So, I cant fairly say that Barclays failed to act in the 
best interests of their retail clients or acted unreasonably by removing the option to buy the 
shares. And Ive taken into account that Barclays did permit any shares already held to be 
sold.
Im satisfied that Mr S understood that he was unable to buy the shares in December 2019 
as there was no option to do so. And whilst Mr S would have preferred an instant pop-up 
explanation, there was no requirement for Barclays to provide this service. It was for them to 
decide how to operate the platform, which was a matter within their commercial judgment. 
Ive also considered that when Mr S called Barclays following the failed attempt to purchase 
the shares, he was advised why he could not purchase any further shares in O. So, I 
consider that Mr S did receive an appropriate explanation within a short timeframe. Theres 
nothing to show that the timing of this information caused Mr S to lose out. Even if Mr S had 
been aware earlier that day that he could not purchase the shares, I think its likely he would 
have been in the same position.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint. It is now a matter for Mr S to 
decide whether or not to accept the goodwill gesture offered by Barclays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman