DRN-3191176
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr K made to Santander UK Plc to renew his expired 
interest-only mortgage. Hes unhappy that it turned him down after he had incurred the 
expense of having his income certified by his accountant. Hes also unhappy at how long the 
process took. Mr K later sold the house and repaid the mortgage. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and Santander Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr K being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the service and timeliness issues first. 
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Santander to compensate Mr K 
for delays and poor service, I have to be satisfied that it unduly and excessively delayed 
matters by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay was the sole or over-riding 
cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mr K. 
Looking at the overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that test has been met. 
Mr K missed the first appointment due to unforeseen matters that had nothing to do with 
Santander, and the next appointment was delayed because Mr K wasnt available. By the 
time he was available, his income document had expired and needed to be renewed. 
Matters were then delayed several months until Mr K submitted new verification. Nothing in 
the evidence Ive been given to review points to unreasonable delays on Santanders part.
As to the lending decision itself, in his email of 26 November 2021 asking for the case to be 
reviewed, Mr K accepts that Santander didnt so much as lead him to believe his application 
would be accepted. Rather, he says:
I was speaking to them with the knowledge that my Equifax report stated that my credit 
rating is very good, that my income was more than enough to meet a mortgage of that 
amount and that the same amount was borrowed some 20 years prior at a time when 
property prices were a lot lower. It seems ludicrous that I did not meet the affordability 
criteria. 
Moreover, basic affordability criteria would be judged at the very start as I dont believe that 
Santander would be spending valuable time with everyone who telephones their offices to 
discuss mortgage options available to them. Clearly the agent who dealt with me was under 
the same impression that there would be no issue in my getting the mortgage approved, and 
hence allowed me to go to the extent of spending a lot of time and money in trying to get my 
documentation together.
Without wishing to sound unkind, that suggests to me that Mr K may simply have assumed 
that renewing his mortgage was something of a formality. If that is true, then Im afraid Mr K 
rather mis-directed himself.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even when theyve borrowed before. 
But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that 
means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are 
commercially sensitive and not generally made public.
Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. If Santanders current lending criteria dont allow it to use all of Mr Ks various 
income sources when assessing affordability of a new lending request (and to be clear, 
thats what this was) thats up to Santanders discretion.
The information Santander asked Mr K to obtain from his accountant was in line with what Id 
expect a prudent lender to ask for when applying its lending criteria, and there are no 
grounds for me to second-guess or otherwise interfere with the decision Santander made in 
reliance on it. 
I realise Mr K thinks differently but I dont find there to be a case for ordering re-imbursement 
of the costs he incurred in verifying his income. As I said earlier, no one is entitled to borrow 
money; Mr Ks accountants costs were incurred to support his application, not to guarantee 
it would succeed. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman