DRN-3479277
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) mishandled a call with regards to his financial 
difficulties and isnt satisfied with its offer of £40 compensation.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as I consider Ikano 
Banks offer of compensation to be fair for these reasons:
I appreciate that Mr R does not consider the call was handled well. He was unhappy 
with the length of the call, as well as some of the questions that were asked of him
Ikano Bank has acknowledged that the duration of the call was long and offered £40 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by this. I 
appreciate that Mr R does not consider this to be commensurate to the experience 
he has had. But Im not persuaded any higher award of compensation is warranted in 
this case. It appears that Ikano Bank was simply trying to get to the bottom of Mr Rs 
situation in order to find a workable solution for him. And while this may have taken 
some time, Im satisfied that the compensation offered for this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
I also appreciate that Mr R was not happy with some of the questions asked of him. 
But where a customer is in financial difficulty, a business will sometimes need to ask 
questions about their customers income, expenditure and wellbeing in order to 
determine the severity of the financial hardship and situation they are in, which will 
help to inform what sort of measures are put in place. And while I understand the 
advisor at Ikano Bank asked questions about his mental health and living situation, 
Im not persuaded that anything inappropriate was asked of him in the 
circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficulties he has been having with his mental health, and I appreciate this has been a very 
difficult time for him. However, I dont consider that Ikano Bank ought to pay any further 
compensation that it has offered already.
My final decision
Ikano Bank AB (publ) has made an offer to pay £40.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Ikano Bank should pay Mr R (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr R should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, it will purely be a matter between Mr R and Ikano Bank as to whether the £40 offer 
still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror 
after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman