DRN-3286112
The complaint
Mr G complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) sold his debt when they shouldnt 
have and delayed in telling him. 
    
What happened
Mr G took out a loan with PML in 2017. He defaulted on this arrangement shortly after. He 
subsequently arranged a payment plan with them in April 2021 to pay £6 per month. 
Mr G is disabled and lives abroad with his wife, who also suffers from ill health.
 
In June 2021 Mr G received a letter from PML advising him that the debt had been sold to a 
debt purchase company who had appointed a collection agent to collect the debt on their 
behalf. 
Mr G says that he hadnt been told, and he thinks that they should have told him before they 
sold it and so he complained. 
In July 2021 PML issued their final response. They said that during early 2021 they were in 
discussions with a company to take assignment of all their unsecured loans, one of which 
was Mr Gs. That reassignment took place in April, and customers were then notified in 
June. PML had continued to manage the accounts until June.    
Mr G was unhappy with this response and so he brought his complaint to us. He also said 
that he didnt think PML were allowed to sell the loan.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint but she thought that PML had done 
nothing wrong. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision and so it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I have considered whether PML have acted fairly and reasonably, and within the terms and 
conditions of the agreement when they sold the loan on to another company. 
Section 11 (f) of the Terms and Conditions of the loan agreement say We may transfer our 
rights and responsibilities under this agreement to another person subject to any restriction 
imposed on us by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or by rules made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We will arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the Debtor(a) as soon 
as reasonably possible, or (b) if, after assignment, the arrangements for servicing the credit 
under the Agreement do not change as far as the Debtor is concerned, on or before the first 
occasion that they do. This will not take away any of your rights or responsibilities under this 
agreement to another person. 
When Mr G signed the agreement to borrow the money, he agreed to these terms which 
include the right to transfer the debt on. So, I dont think that PML have done anything wrong 
in selling the debt on to another company. 
I have also thought about whether PML have provided Mr G with enough information about 
the sale, and early enough. The terms and conditions say they have to notify you as soon 
as reasonably possible about any transfer. PML have explained that they were negotiating 
the sale in early 2021 and managing the account between April and June themselves. They 
notified Mr G on 15 June 2021.  I wouldnt expect PML to tell customers when they are 
negotiating any sale as its a business matter, and until the transfer took place it isnt certain. 
The transfer seems to have taken place in April, but Mr G wasnt notified till June. I dont 
know why there was a delay, and PML havent offered any explanation. However, I dont 
think PML have done anything wrong here as they were continuing to manage the debt 
themselves until June, and ultimately, Mr G wasnt disadvantaged by this slight delay in 
informing him. He was still able to make the agreed repayments, and even if he had known 
about it earlier it wouldnt have changed the fact that the debt was sold as PML were still 
within their rights to do so.   
The e mail PML sent to Mr G in June gave him all the information he needed about who was 
collecting the payments, how to contact them to discuss making payments, and what to do it 
he was experiencing any financial difficulties in meeting the payment. I think this information 
is comprehensive and accurate, and I dont think PML have acted unfairly here. 
I appreciate that Mr G and his wife both have health issues and have felt stressed by the 
transfer of this debt to another company, but I cant see that PML have done anything wrong 
in selling this debt, nor in the information they have provided.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint and so Progressive Money Limited 
need not do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman