DRN-4299327
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund a number of 
transactions on her account which she says she didnt make.
What happened
In December 2022, three cash withdrawals were made from Miss Fs Halifax account  but 
Miss F says it wasnt her who made them. She says she realised she didnt have her card 
anymore the morning after the withdrawals were made. She then checked her account, saw 
the withdrawals and called Halifax to report them as fraud and ask it to refund the money 
she had lost.
Halifax investigated but, as Miss F had said she hadnt written down or told anyone else her 
PIN, it said there was no way for anyone else to have made the withdrawals without her 
authority. It thought the withdrawals were likely done by someone Miss F Knew and had 
given authority to, so it didnt agree to refund them. Miss F wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They couldnt see how an unknown 
fraudster would have known Miss Fs PIN, and they didnt think the pattern of withdrawals 
matched what wed expect from fraud. So they didnt think Halifax should have to refund the 
withdrawals. Miss F disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer made the payments 
themselves, or told someone else they could make them.
Halifax has sent us technical evidence which shows that the withdrawals were made using 
Miss Fs genuine card and correct PIN. But this on its own isnt enough to allow Halifax to 
hold Miss F responsible for them. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that Miss F consented to the withdrawals.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
I appreciate that Miss F says she was at home when all the withdrawals were made, and 
that she has seen CCTV footage which shows her returning home before the withdrawals 
were made and two of the withdrawals being made by people who dont fit her physical 
description. But it is still possible for her to have consented to the withdrawals, even if she 
didnt physically make them herself  for example, by allowing someone else to make them.
Halifaxs evidence shows that the withdrawals were all made using Miss Fs correct PIN, 
entered correctly at the first attempt. And Miss F says shes never told anyone else her PIN 
or written it down anywhere. But if this is the case, I cant see how anyone other than Miss F 
would have been able to make the payments. In order for someone else to have made the 
payments, they would have needed to correctly guess her PIN, at the first attempt  which I 
think is unlikely.
Miss F has suggested the fraudster could have seen her enter her PIN to unlock her mobile 
phone, or seen her enter her PIN when she withdrew cash from a different account earlier 
that evening, as these PINs are similar to the PIN for her Halifax card. But even if this was 
the case, Id expect there to have been at least one incorrect PIN attempt as the fraudster 
worked out the difference between the other PINs and the Halifax PIN. But Halifaxs 
evidence shows the PIN was entered correctly at the first attempt. So the fraudster would 
have had to see Miss F enter one of the other PINs, and correctly guess exactly how the 
Halifax PIN was different from it first time  which I also think is unlikely.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of thing Id typically expect an opportunistic 
thief to do after gaining access to someones account. Generally, the way fraudsters operate 
is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money 
being cut-off or them being detected. But here, three withdrawals are made a number of 
hours apart, Miss Fs full available balance isnt used up and no further withdrawals are 
attempted afterwards. So I dont think its likely these withdrawals were done by an 
opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Miss F Feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
I dont think the evidence suggests the withdrawals were made by an unknown third-party. 
And, based on the evidence I have and in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think 
its likely she either made the payments herself or allowed someone else to do so. So I dont 
think Halifax needs to refund the withdrawals to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman