DRN-3933195
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building society (Nationwide) will not refund a disputed 
transaction.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr D paid £999.98 for power meter pedals. In August 2019 Mr D started 
experiencing problems with the pedals. He got in touch with the manufacturer who asked 
him to return the pedals for repair/ replacement. Mr D says the pedals were returned to him 
in working order. 
In June 2021 Mr D started experiencing issues with the pedals, he came across the 
manufacturers service advisory, released in June 2018 which he said related to the 
problems he was having with the spindle nuts. Having attempted the fix outlined in the 2018 
service advisory, he was able to tighten the spindle nut on the left pedal but was still 
experiencing problems with the right pedal.
He contacted the manufacturer again, this time it said the pedals were outside its 24-month 
warranty, so offered to resolve the issue at a cost of £117.27. Unhappy with having to pay 
this, Mr D got in touch with the supplier. The supplier said that due to the amount of time that 
had passed since his purchase, the manufacturer was responsible for the product.
Mr D contacted Nationwide in December 2021 to ask it for a refund under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). He said the pedals were not of satisfactory quality 
when they were sold to him. Nationwide contacted the supplier who said the goods had been 
replaced by the manufacturer and it wasnt liable for goods it didnt originally supply. 
Nationwide didnt think Mr D had a valid claim under section 75 as it said the supplier hadnt 
supplied the goods that were being complained about. It also said Mr D had not given the 
supplier an opportunity to offer a refund or repair in 2019, in accordance with the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA), by going directly to the manufacturer. 
Mr D complained to Nationwide about the outcome of his claim, he said the pedals had been 
repaired and not replaced, he didnt think it had considered the evidence provided or 
investigated his claim properly. Nationwide rejected his complaint, it maintained there wasnt 
a valid section 75 claim, in relation to the pedals.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr D raised a complaint with our service. One of our 
investigators looked at the complaint. He didnt think Nationwide had taken the correct 
approach, as Mr D purchased the pedals from the supplier, and so his contract was with 
them. However, he said that even if Nationwide had correctly considered Mr Ds claim, he 
didnt think Mr D had provided enough evidence to show the issue was due to an inherent 
manufacturing fault. Because of this he didnt think Mr D had lost out on anything due to 
Nationwides handling of the claim.
Mr D disagreed, he said Nationwides handling of the claim caused him unnecessary 
frustration and inconvenience, he also thought it should refund him the cost of replacement 
pedals he purchased for £550.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has submitted extensive arguments and I wish to reassure him I have read these and 
given them due consideration. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. And our 
powers allow me to do this, and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts.
 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Nationwides approach to Mr Ds section 75 claim
Nationwide said it had no liability to Mr D under section 75 because the manufacturer 
replaced the original pedals in 2019, so the supplier couldnt be held responsible for items it 
didnt supply. In addition, it said that by going directly to the manufacturer Mr D had deprived 
the supplier of its right to offer a repair or replacement in the first instance, so there could be 
no breach of contract. However, I dont think Mr D contacting the manufacturer for a remedy, 
deprives him of his rights against the supplier for a breach of contract. He contracted with 
the supplier for the pedals, which came along with the manufacturers warranty. So, I dont 
think Mr Ds actions automatically mean there can be no breach of contract.
Even if I was wrong about this, and were to accept Nationwides argument, Im not 
persuaded the pedals were replaced by the manufacturer. Nationwide relied on Mr D 
referring to replacement pedals, in some of his communications, but I can see the 
manufacturer offered a repair or replacement in its email dated 9 August 2019. And I havent 
seen anything from the manufacturer to confirm it replaced the pedals in 2019 or any 
evidence to show the pedal serial numbers are different from those supplied in 2017. So, I 
dont think there is conclusive evidence to say the pedals were replaced in 2019.
Mr D says that if Nationwide handled his claim properly, he wouldnt have had the 
inconvenience of having to escalate the complaint. Mr D has provided lengthy complaint 
submissions, and I think its more likely than not that even if Nationwide had correctly 
considered his section 75 claim, its likely to have declined it (Ill explain why in the section 
below) and I think Mr D would have still escalated his complaint to this service. However, I 
do recognise that Mr D spent time calling and writing to Nationwide to try to get it to explain 
its approach to the claim and request that it review the evidence provided. So, I do think 
Nationwides handling caused Mr D some frustration and inconvenience, in the 
circumstances I think Nationwide should pay Mr D £75 compensation to reflect this.
Section 75 claim
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which the complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.  
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
service provider, Im not deciding Nationwides liability under Section 75- only a court can do 
that. Rather, Im deciding whether Nationwides decision to decline Mr Ds claim without considering his evidence about the faulty pedals, has meant he has lost out and if it has, 
how it should put things right. In doing so, I must take account of relevant law, amongst other 
things. Section 75 is relevant here, as is the CRA. 
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract, goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. The CRA also contains a presumption that where goods dont 
conform to contract within six months of the date of supply, that they didnt do so on supply. 
As more than six months passed, when Mr D experienced issues it is for him to prove the 
fault was there at the point of supply. Mr D puts forward that the issue with the right spindle 
nut not tightening or being able to be removed, is linked to an identified inherent 
manufacturing fault outlined in a service advisory released in 2018. And on this basis the 
pedals could not have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The manufacturers service advisory 2018 says
is aware of an issue that may affect a small number of Vector' 3 customers where
Spindle nut is under torqued and must be tightened before your next ride
Cartridge is separated from the pedal body 
Mr D hasnt suggested the cartridge is separating from the body of the pedal. And I note the 
service advisory only identifies an issue with the spindle nut not being fully tightened and 
goes on to give service instructions on how to tighten it. There is no reference made to a 
problem with the spindle nut spinning, not tightening, or not being able to be removed, as Mr 
D has detailed. So, whilst I appreciate Mr D believes the problem is related to the 
manufacturing spindle nut issue, I dont think this is clear.
Mr D is also of the view that the manufacturers offer to rectify the problem without any 
quibble, supports that the issue is related to the identified problem with the spindle nut. And 
whilst I accept the manufacturer made no reference to wear or tear in response, but neither 
did it confirm the spindle nut spinning issue is related to a manufacturing problem.
 
I can also see that the pedals need to be disassembled and reassembled for routine 
maintenance/service, and whilst I accept Mr D has engineering qualifications, its possible 
that a component may have become damaged, or the spindle nut tightened in the wrong 
direction of the thread during a service. And whilst I know Mr D doesnt agree, I think its also 
plausible that the spinning of the spindle nut could be due to a component becoming worn. 
So, Im not satisfied the fault relates to the identified manufacturing problem in the service 
advisory.
Ive looked at the photographs provided by Mr D, but theres nothing there to evidence the 
problem relates to the manufacturing problem highlighted in the service advisory. Ive also 
reviewed the comments from the online forum where other pedal users indicate they have 
also experienced issues with the spindle nut spinning. But Im not persuaded the comments 
sufficiently demonstrate Mr Ds pedals had an inherent manufacturing fault. I say this 
because the writers wouldnt have inspected Mr Ds pedals or knowledge of their 
service/maintenance history.
Mr D told us the manufacturer did accept that the spinning spindle nut was a manufacturing 
fault. And I can see our investigator asked him to provide us with something from the 
manufacturer to confirm this or an independent inspection report, but he hasnt provided 
either. In the absence of any corroborating evidence, Im not satisfied the problem Mr D 
experienced is due to a manufacturing fault.I have considered carefully all that Mr D has said and produced. Having done so, I am not 
persuaded that the evidence presently available is sufficient to establish on balance, that 
there was a breach of contract by the supplier. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me, based on the present evidence to direct Nationwide to reimburse Mr D for the 
replacement pedals he purchased or refund him for the cost of the pedals. 
Mr D may now wish to get an independent report or confirmation from the manufacturer that 
the issue experienced relates to a manufacturing fault, for Nationwides consideration. 
However, Nationwide may be able to use the Limitations Act 1980 to defend Mr Ds claim if 
he doesnt bring it within six years from the date the cause of action accrued.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think its fair for Nationwide to pay Mr D £75 compensation to reflect the 
frustration and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
My decision is I partly uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr 
D £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman