DRN-2976133
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly advised him that he could get a 
temporary overdraft. 
What happened
Mr F needed a temporary overdraft of £150 to buy some household goods. He went into a 
branch to see if this could be arranged but was advised he needed to make the request 
using online banking. Mr F applied online but the application was declined due to adverse 
credit information on his credit file. 
Mr F called HSBC to complain that he was mis led in branch that he could get a temporary 
overdraft if he applied online. He says the call handler advised that HSBC dont offer 
temporary overdrafts but only permanent. The call disconnected and he wasnt called back.
When he called back the call handler went through the online application with Mr F again 
and it was declined. The complaint was logged for the mis-information and the stress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr F was offered £20 compensation which he declined as he didnt 
think it was enough considering the increased levels of anxiety the situation had caused  he 
asked for £80. Both Mr F and the call handler agreed on £40 to resolve the complaint. On 
reflection Mr F didnt feel the level of compensation was fair given the distress caused and 
HSBC were unwilling to increase their offer. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint and agreed the compensation offered 
by HSBC was fair considering the situation. Mr F rejected the investigators findings and 
asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to the call Mr F had with the second call handler. Its clear they tried their 
best to help Mr F with obtaining an overdraft by talking him through an online 
application due to the trouble hed already gone through.
It was confirmed by both HSBC and Mr F that the reason the application wasnt 
successful was due to adverse information on his credit file. It was Mr Fs choice to 
apply for an overdraft  and a successful application isnt always guaranteed. 
I understand Mr Fs frustrations with the differing information he says he was given 
about getting a temporary overdraft, and the difficulties he was having with the 
connection with HSBC telephone banking. But Mr F agreed to £40 compensation as 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused. Its only since hes referred the 
complaint to our service, he says he feels the £40 compensation isnt enough. I 
disagree  I feel the compensation offer of £40 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr F for the time it took to resolve the application for an 
overdraft. So I wont be asking HSBC to pay any more.
For these reasons I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman