DRN-2175014
The complaint
Mr Hs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (the 
business). 
In short, the CMC says:
In 2001, Mr H was in poor health having been forced to retire. It was inappropriate to 
advise him to invest in a medium to long term risk-based investment product, given 
the uncertainty of his future health. 
Mr H was advised to invest too much of his available funds. He was retired and 
reliant on a pension income, so didnt have a suitable cash reserve. 
Mr H was advised to take too much risk with his money. 
In 2004, Mr H was incorrectly advised to invest another lump sum exposing his 
money to further risk. 
What happened
In 2001, Mr H was advised to invest £70,000 in the Halifax High Interest Trust, referred to as 
HIIT or the investment.
In terms of Mr Hs circumstances, it was recorded that: 
He was married with no dependents. 
Hed recently been forced to retire on health grounds and received a £21,000 lump 
sum after working for 30 years.
Altogether he held £123,382 on deposit, £7,000 in stocks and shares and £6,123 in 
an ISA.
Although he was initially advised to invest £68,000 in the HIIT and £3,000 in an ISA, 
following two meetings with the adviser Mr H decided to invest the whole £71,000 in 
the HIIT. His primary objective was to increase his income. 
In 2004, Mr H was advised to invest a further £20,000 which he agreed to. It was recorded 
that he still had access to just over £80,000 in savings. 
Having invested a total of £91,000, Mr H received an income of £25,580.86 during the term 
of the plan. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The recommendations were suitable. 
In 2001, even after investing Mr H still had access to £52,382 in a savings account, 
£7,000 in stocks and shares, and £6,123 in an ISA. So, he still had access to a 
reasonable amount of cash.
The funds were invested in corporate bonds  a low risk investment  and accessible 
anytime, so the investment wasnt high risk or unsuitable.  
Mr H had sufficient time to consider the advice before deciding to go ahead.  
In 2004, Mr H agreed to top up his investment with a further £20,000, and still had 
just over £80,000 in savings. 
Because Mr H only had a pension income, it wasnt unreasonable for him to invest 
more money to try and achieve a greater income. 
Mr H received a reasonable return from his investments. 
Overall, Mr H wanted to achieve a greater income. To achieve his objective, he was 
willing to invest a lump sum and take some risk with his money. Therefore, the 
recommendation wasnt unsuitable.
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said:
Thank you for providing your view  however we seek the opinion of an Ombudsman on this 
case as we believe the fact that 100% of his investment was held in Corporate Bonds meant 
that he received no asset class diversification and as such this increased the risk of his 
investment.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation to invest in the HIIT was unsuitable for Mr H. 
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I can confirm that 
I dont need any further information in order to reach a decision in this case.
I note that in 2001 Mr H was forced to retire early, on health grounds, having worked for 30 
years. He was therefore probably keen to invest a lump sum to ensure that he still had an 
income, over and above his pension income. 
Its probably because of this Mr H decided to invest a reasonably large sum, to try and make 
up for the lost (regular) salary that he was used to over the years. So, I dont agree with the 
CMC that it was an inappropriate time to invest just because he had lost his job and wasnt 
in good health. I note Mr H received £21,000 from his employer but this wasnt enough to make up for the 
lost income, even if he kept the money on deposit with the rest of his savings. For this 
reason, I dont think Mr H was advised to invest too much of his money. I note that having 
taken a reasonable amount of time to decide, he chose to invest the entire £71,000 into the 
HIIT, rather than invest a portion of it in an ISA as advised by the business.
I note that despite doing this, Mr H was still left with a reasonable amount of cash (in the 
sum of £52,382) for emergencies.
 
I appreciate Mr H wasnt an experienced investor, but he wasnt without investment 
experience either. I note that in 2001 he held £123,382 on deposit, £7,000 in stocks and 
shares and £6,123 in an ISA. 
I also note it was recorded that Mr H was willing to accept more risk than in the past as up 
until now you have only ever reinvested in deposit-based accounts where you have received 
a regular monthly interest. However, in view of the continuing low interest rates in these 
types of accounts, you have started to look at alternative ways of investing your money. You 
are prepared to accept risk to capital and income and a change to receiving income on a 
quarterly basis rather than monthly as long as this offers you the potential for a better 
income than that provided by a traditional deposit account as income is the priority for you. 
So, despite having a tendency to keep most of his money on deposit, Im satisfied that Mr H 
had an appreciation of risk, and in light of his new circumstances, was prepared to take a 
measured risk with his money to achieve his objective of a better income. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H was risk averse. So, despite what the CMC says, I 
dont think the recommendation to invest his money in government bonds  generally 
considered low risk  was unsuitable in the circumstances. I appreciate the point made in 
response to the investigators view, about asset allocation. In some cases, it can be of 
concern, but in this instance, given the low risk and Mr Hs pre-existing investments in an 
ISA, and stocks and shares Im not persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable. Im 
also conscious that Mr H wanted to reinvest to achieve higher income as opposed to 
growing his fund balance.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H was willing to take a high risk with a small portion of 
his money, rather than a low risk with a larger lump sum. Given that he wasnt in a position 
to replace any losses, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable.
Despite Mr Hs ill health, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was incapable of making his 
own decisions. Im satisfied he took his time, in light of his new circumstances, before 
deciding to invest. 
I note that in 2004, Mr H agreed to invest another £20,000, which I think he did with the 
benefit of hindsight, having been invested in the same product for three years at that point. 
So, he had ample time to consider whether, or not, it was something he was happy to re-
invest in. I note he still had access to a reasonable amount of cash reserves and wasnt 
looking to surrender his investment. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the 
recommendation to invest a further lump sum was unsuitable. 
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman