DRN-3702464
Complaint
Mr Y has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr Y with a loan for £2,000.00 in December 2017. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £95. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Mr Y and Likely Loans had told us. And she thought that Likely Loans hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr Y unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ys complaint be 
upheld. Mr Y disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ys complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr Y could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ys application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr Y could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr Y has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr Y and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
and Likely Loans showed that Mr Y had some previous difficulties repaying credit. But these 
were historic and Mr Ys credit commitments since then had been relatively well maintained. 
Its also worth noting that the monthly repayments required for this loan were low. And Mr Y 
also appears to have been asked about details of his income and expenditure which 
suggested that the monthly repayments were affordable too.
I accept that Mr Y appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. But even if I accept that Likely Loans checks ought to have gone into the depth   
Mr Y appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements in the same 
way a mortgage provider would  weve not been provided with this information and crucially 
weve not been provided with anything which clearly shows the loan payments were 
demonstrably unaffordable. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr Y is suggesting  and even then we havent been provided with 
anything which demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr Y - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided with 
anything that suggests Likely Loans doing more would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr Y unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr Y. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman