DRN-1756948
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled claims she made 
on her credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms S made four claims on the policy, three of them being backdated claims. AXA initially 
declined all of these. However, upon Ms S making her complaint to this service, AXA re-
assessed the claims and offered to pay out on all of them. In addition, AXA offered Ms S 
£400 for distress and inconvenience in failing to handle the claims correctly.
Our adjudicator thought that AXAs response was reasonable and so did not recommend 
any further award.
Ms S accepts that AXA has now paid out on the claims as it should have. Whilst Ms S says 
that the moderate level of compensation doesnt reflect the disadvantages she suffered, she 
has also accepted the additional £400 that has been offered, But Ms S is unhappy that all of 
her complaints have not been addressed in full and so has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Some of Ms Ss complaints related to the credit card issuer, rather than AXA. I understand 
that Ms S has now received an ombudsmans decision about the card issuer in relation to 
commission. To be clear, this complaint is only looking at the actions of AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
AXA has paid out two of the claims for the maximum period of 12 months. AXA has paid the 
other two claims for the period that Ms S was claiming for. As Ive already mentioned, Ms S 
accepts that the claims have now been paid out as they should, and she has also accepted 
the £400 offered in compensation.
Normally at this point we would consider that the complaint had been resolved. However, Ms 
S says its not clear that we have found fault with how AXA treated her, nor have we laid out 
how AXA is to put things right. Ms S would like a detailed explanation of what went wrong.
Ms S spoke with a member of staff at AXA about her dissatisfaction over the declined 
claims. Despite Ms S saying that she wanted to put her formal complaint in writing, the staff 
member escalated her complaint based on their phone conversation. Ms S found out about 
this because she received a letter acknowledging the complaint that she essentially hadnt 
made yet. AXA later advised Ms S that she could refer her complaint to this service as it had 
not been able to respond to her in a timely fashion.
Ms S is under the impression that this service brought some pressure to bear on AXA to get 
it to reverse its claims decisions  and she wants to know what exactly happened behind the 
scenes to make AXA change its mind. I can understand why Ms S would think that this 
service had some input of that nature, because it was after she made her complaint to us 
that AXA decided to accept her claims in full. Actually, thats not what happened.As Ms S is aware, AXA hadnt looked at her complaint prior to it being referred to this 
service. Having set up the complaint, as per our usual practice, we then asked AXA to 
provide its case file. But by that time AXA had looked at Ms Ss complaint and it contacted 
us to say that it had made incorrect decisions on the claim and was now working to get a 
resolution. So, AXA had realised by itself that it had made a mistake. 
In relation to each claim, AXA told us:
CAP/169145
Unemployment and carers allowance for 30 May 2011  23 May 2012. 
This was declined because when she registered as a carer, she was in credit on her credit 
card. I have reviewed the claim and we obtained the incorrect balance from 2010 and not 
2011. We have now paid the maximum benefit under the policy of £3,162.46.
CAP/169627
Disability for 1 August 2015  1 April 2016.
This claim was declined because Ms S did not meet the policy definition of employed, she 
was not in full time employment. We have reviewed the claim and underwriting have now 
agreed to accept cover. We have paid £332.01 for 262 days of cover.
CAP/169630
Disability for 20 August 2017  13 March 2018.
This claim was declined because Ms S did not meet the policy definition of employed, she 
was not in full time employment. We have reviewed the claim and underwriting have now 
agreed to accept cover. We have paid £2,741.08 for 206 days of cover.
CAP/169629
Disability claim for 17 February 2019  11 February 2020.
This claim was declined because Ms S did not meet the policy definition of employed, she 
was not in full time employment. We have reviewed the claim and underwriting have now 
agreed to accept cover. We have paid the maximum benefit under the policy of £4,763.23.
AXA has made the claims payments direct to Ms Ss credit card account. Because these 
were lump sum retrospective payments, it had the effect of putting the account into credit. 
Ms S has therefore had to contact the card provider for it to refund her the excess amount.
Ms S has talked about the claims pay out shes received as duplicating payments because 
she carried on making monthly card repayments during these claim periods. If things had 
happened as they ideally should have, Ms S would have made the claims at each point that 
she found herself unable to work. The insurance would then have paid out a benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding balance at the point of loss, per month, whilst the claim was active or until 
the maximum 12 months payments had been made. Ms S has talked about fixing the benefit 
at the point of loss as being a policy set up to benefit the insurer as opposed to the 
policyholder. However, we wouldnt normally expect people to continue to use their credit 
card during a claim period. 
Those monthly benefit payments would have been paid to the credit card account and have the effect of incrementally reducing the card balance. If a successful claim was made for the 
maximum 12 months, that would reduce the balance on the card to zero.
If I understand Ms S correctly, she has the impression that the policyholder would have to 
continue making the monthly minimum repayment to the card at the same time as the 
insurer is making the benefit payments to the card account. This isnt usually the case, as 
10% of the outstanding balance at the point of loss would normally be enough to cover the 
minimum payment, as long as the policyholder hasnt continued to spend on the card. If the 
policyholder has continued to make purchases using the card, causing the balance to 
increase, then the policy benefit wouldnt cover the minimum monthly payment due. 
Therefore, in that scenario, the person would have to make up the shortfall themselves.
Because the claims were mostly retrospective, that has undoubtedly complicated matters. I 
accept that it would have been preferable if AXA had only paid the value of the outstanding 
balance on the card to the credit card account and the rest directly to Ms S. But AXA made 
payments in line with its terms and conditions. Overall, I consider it was reasonable of AXA 
to administer the claim payments in the way that it has.
Ms S says the terms and conditions of the policy are clear but that AXA applies them in bad 
faith. Clearly there were errors to begin with, because AXA fully accepts that it made 
incorrect decisions initially. But it then re-looked at Ms Ss situation at the start of each claim 
period, against the existing terms and conditions and found that her circumstances did meet 
the requirements of a successful claim. So Im not persuaded by what Ms S has said about 
AXA changing the goal posts in terms of how it assesses claims.
Ms S has asked about whether the period 2011  2014 has been treated as one continuous 
claim. As AXA has paid out for the maximum 12 months from the start date of 30 May 2011, 
it was not necessary for AXA to assess the claim beyond May 2012.
Ms S has asked for clarification of definitions and conditions within the policy, particularly in 
relation to possible future claims. Ms S says that the policy terms dont contain a definition of 
disability, which is important to her as she is now classed as disabled. AXA has used the 
term disability interchangeably with accident or sickness, so it is the definition of accident 
or sickness that Ms S should refer to. AXA has invited her to contact it with any queries she 
has. Contrary to what Ms S has said, it is AXA, and not this service, that is best placed to 
provide those answers.
Ms S has had a bad experience and that leaves her apprehensive about the outcome of any 
future claims she may need to make. It wouldnt be fair to say that, because AXA made 
mistakes previously, that it will do so again. I would expect AXA to assess any future claim in 
line with the prevailing policy terms. And there is an expectation that businesses should 
learn from ombudsmens decisions.
Ive looked at whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with Ms S. I find 
that there was fault on the part of AXA, both in how it initially declined her claims and how it 
dealt with her complaint. 
In terms of what AXA needs to do to put things right, I find that AXA has already done 
enough by paying the claims in full and offering compensation. It follows that I will not be 
asking AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc mis-handled Ms Ss claims and complaint in the 
first instance. However, it has since acted reasonably in accepting Ms Ss claims in full and offering £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. AXA Insurance UK 
Plc should pay the £400 compensation to Ms S now if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman