DRN-1744081
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy on a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI policy with a mortgage that started in 1988. Mr and Mrs H 
paid a monthly amount for the policy. The mortgage was in joint names and the PPI provided 
cover for just Mr H. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Both Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs H agree that the sales took place during a meeting. 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know that they had a choice whether or not to take the policies. 
Bradford & Bingley say that the optional nature of the policies was made clear to Mr and Mrs 
H. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs testimony and the evidence that has been provided by 
Bradford & Bingley in order to decide what is most likely to have happened.
Ive looked closely at the paperwork from the sale. The application form said that this was 
something Mr and Mrs H could say No to; they could have ticked a box to decline the cover. 
To get the PPI, Mr and Mrs H had to select the cover by completing details of the cover they 
wanted. PPI was selected in that way in the application form and Mr and Mrs H signed the 
application form agreeing to its contents. So, overall I think that they knew they were taking 
out PPI and knew they had a choice about doing so.
Mr and Mrs H told us that they felt under pressure to say yes to the MPPI. I have no doubt 
this represents their best recollection of the events of the sale and is made in good faith. But 
this is a subjective area and I have not been presented with any evidence that supports this 
testimony. So, having considered the above, and the time that has passed since the sale, 
over 30 years, and in the absence of any further evidence in support of Mr and Mrs Hs 
testimony, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs H only took 
the policy because they were put under pressure to do so.
Bradford & Bingley said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, but Mr and Mrs H 
recall being advised to take the cover. Because it makes no difference to the outcome of this 
complaint, whilst placing a higher responsibility on Bradford & Bingley, I have assessed this complaint as if advice was given. So, Bradford& Bingley had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Ive looked at the circumstances of Mr and Mrs H at the time of the sale and I dont think this 
was an unsuitable recommendation. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy and was not affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policy. Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from 
his employer but, whilst good initially, it dropped significantly after six months. The 
disability benefit of the PPI would have lasted with no limit in 1988. So, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Hs sick pay entitlement and for longer than his 
employer wouldve paid him at his full rate of pay. And Mr and Mrs H told us that they 
had no only modest other means to rely on at that time. Ive also noted that as well 
as providing cover in the event of ill health, the policy would have provided benefits if 
Mr H lost his job. So I think the PPI wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs 
H. 
The policy appears to have been comparable in cost to other policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears to have been affordable.
Taking all these things into account I think the PPI policy was suitable for them. 
As well as checking the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H, Bradford & Bingley also had to give 
them clear enough information, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Bradford & Bingley gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded more 
or better information would have made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI 
policies.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And I make no 
award against Bradford & Bingley Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman