DRN-4509325
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money he paid 
to a builder.
What happened
What Mr B says:
Mr B says he made a contract with a builder to have various works done at his house. He 
says the contract included five years warranty. He paid £21,000 in advance of work being 
done.
The payments were:
Date Payment type Amount
11 February 2020 Online payment to builder £7,080
3 March 2020 Online payment to builder £7,080
14 April 2020 Online payment to builder £7,080
Total paid £21,240
He then found out the person was doing this as his last job before closing down his 
business. He left the work incomplete and suggested he got it finished by using someone 
else.
Mr B says he acted in good faith in making the payments and was defrauded. He says hes 
been left financially and mentally scared.
Mr B complained to NatWest in May 2023. He says NatWest should refund the money as the 
builder misrepresented himself  he quoted the Fraud Act 2006.
What NatWest said:
NatWest said this was not a scam, but a civil dispute. It should be resolved using other 
channels such as trading standards or the small claims court. The alternative legal actions 
could be discussed with a legal advisor.
Our investigation so far:
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She agreed it was a civil 
matter and it wasnt for NatWest to provide a refund.
Mr B asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B has lost money as a result of the builder not completing the work 
he said he would.
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
If this was a scam  then banks (including NatWest) must follow industry and regulatory 
guidance to check certain payments and in some circumstances, protect customers by 
stopping the payments and contacting customers about them. And where banks havent 
followed the guidance, they can be asked to refund them. This is called Authorised Push 
Payments guidance (APP).
But where payments are made to a business for work to be done, then such principles dont 
apply. This is then classed as a civil dispute, and for which banks normally have no liability.
I therefore looked at Mr Bs complaint with this in mind. I can see this is clearly a civil dispute 
between Mr B and the builder. I say that as he had a contract for the work. It specified the 
work to be done, and the builder started the work  Mr B confirmed that in his call to 
NatWest in May 2023. So, there was an intention to carry out some, or all of the work  it 
wasnt a scam.
So in this case, Im satisfied that this wasnt a scam  it involved an established builder, and 
this is a dispute between Mr B and the building firm. The way forward (as NatWest have 
said) is for Mr B to pursue the builder using his civil legal remedies. To decide what they are, 
he should speak to a solicitor or the Citizens Advice Bureau as a first step.
So  this is not a complaint where we would expect NatWest to refund any money that Mr B 
has paid.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman