DRN-3859516
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc paid 
them for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J complained to HSBC about the sale of PPI on their mortgage. HSBC agreed it 
had been mis-sold and offered them compensation.
HSBC worked out the compensation based on the earliest date their records started, in 
1996. However, Mr and Mrs J pointed out that theyd had the mortgage since 1989. They 
said theyd taken out the PPI back then.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They suggested 
that HSBC backdate the start date to 12 months before the records happen to begin. HSBC 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent HSBC and Mr and Mrs J a provisional decision on 30 November 2022, to explain 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think HSBCs offer was quite fair  Ill explain why.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd be in now if theyd never been sold the policy  as far as its possible to do 
that. That means using reasonable assumptions for periods when records arent available, in 
order to estimate what they might have likely paid.
Its rather unlikely indeed that Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy just happened to start on the very 
same day that HSBCs earliest records go back to. I can see that both sides accept its likely 
that the PPI started beforehand.
HSBC argue that, without records, any particular start date would be arbitrary. That may be 
the case  without much evidence, to some extent any particular date is arbitrary. But then 
with that in mind, the date HSBC used is also very much arbitrary, too. They acknowledge 
themselves that its not an accurate date for when the policy actually began.
The date HSBC used also happens to be the latest possible date the PPI could have been 
taken out  which means their assumptions work entirely in their own favour. That doesnt 
seem fair. We expect businesses to make reasonable assumptions, and we expect things to 
be fair for both sides.
Mr and Mrs J recall taking out the PPI when they took out their mortgage in 1989. HSBCs 
records only go back to 1996, but show that the policy was active by then. So the policy was 
taken out at some point between those dates.
To start the calculation at the start of the mortgage would be most favourable to Mr and 
Mrs J, but perhaps unfair on HSBC. And to start the calculation at the date the records 
happen to begin would be most favourable to HSBC, but unfair to Mr and Mrs J. So in order 
to treat both sides fairly and equally, the fairest thing is to start the calculation at the halfway 
point between those dates.
HSBC argue that it would be unfair for them to refund premiums which we cant prove were 
paid. But theyre mistaken. First, its worth keeping in mind that the reason they have to pay 
this compensation is because HSBC mis-sold this insurance in the first place, and now have 
to put that right. And as I mentioned before, its very unlikely that the PPI just happened to 
start on the exact same day HSBCs earliest records start. Its much more likely that the PPI 
policy was already in place by then  meaning that Mr and Mrs J had already been paying 
premiums for a mis-sold policy before the records began.
So in order to fairly compensate Mr and Mrs J, and to put them in the financial position they 
would have been in but for the PPI, it was almost inevitably going to involve refunding some 
premiums which they likely paid, but which we cant definitively prove they paid. Its our 
normal approach that businesses should make reasonable assumptions about what 
happened before records began, and that businesses should refund an estimate of the 
premiums paid then  and HSBC should be familiar with our approach by now.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 December 2022. HSBC objected to the provisional decision, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, HSBC said they didnt actually know when the 
mortgage started and didnt have any evidence of this. They felt it was unfair to assume a 
start date based only on one sides recollections from decades prior.
As far as I can see, HSBC did not mention before that they didnt actually know when the 
mortgage started, they only said they didnt know when the PPI started. It may have been 
pertinent for them to raise this at an earlier stage.
In any case, we went back to Mr and Mrs J about this. They provided a copy of their letter 
from Midland Bank (later HSBC) dated 6 July 1989. This confirmed that on that day, their 
mortgage was drawn down, and their repayments started the following month. I find this to 
be sufficient evidence of their mortgages start date.
Since we now know when the mortgage started, HSBC will be able to recalculate the redress 
starting at the halfway point between then and the date their records begin. And I still think 
thats the fairest way to resolve this case, based on the reasoning in my provision decision 
set out above.So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to recalculate their offer, using a start date thats halfway 
between the mortgage start date and the date the records happen to begin.
I then direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay any outstanding compensation to Mr and Mrs J 
based on this new calculation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman