DRN-2700515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the service they have received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva). In particular, they are unhappy with the delays they say they have continued 
to experience in getting a unit price for their investment. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out an investment with a predecessor scheme of Aviva in 1998. 
They say that soon after Aviva took over the responsibility for the administration of this 
investment (2017), they stopped being able to access a daily valuation or unit price online. 
They say that they had to then call up for that information, until that service stopped being 
available. They were then offered to be sent the unit price on a monthly basis in the post. 
However, Mr and Mrs T said that this eventually stopped happening and he was paid 
compensation after complaining to Aviva. Then in June 2020 they complained again 
regarding recurring issues obtaining a unit price and difficulty getting hold of people and calls 
not being returned. Aviva say they tried to rectify the issue by offering for the unit price to be 
emailed, but in an encrypted format which would require Mr and Mrs T to download some 
software. Which they were not comfortable doing. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and so brought their complaint to our service. They dont 
agree that the email should need to be encrypted for security purposes and arent happy that 
a postal option is no longer offered for cost reasons. 
Our investigator looked into it and felt that Aviva had offered fair options to provide the unit 
price to Mr and Mrs T. He said that it was understandable that the price couldnt be offered 
instantly as the fund is now closed. He also said that Aviva had offered an un-encrypted 
email through a different email provider. He felt the £100 paid to Mr and Mrs T was 
reasonable for the service issues faced. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They said they hadnt been compensated appropriately for the 
poor service they received. They also maintained that sending the unit price by email would 
not be a breach of any security procedures. They didnt think the options offered to them 
were fair. As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to say that I can see how frustrating this must be for Mr and Mrs T. All 
they want to do is to be able to monitor the value of their holding and have access to that 
information, when it is convenient for them. 
However, Aviva have said that in the case of this fund that isnt possible. There is no 
agreement or condition that guarantees Mr and Mrs T will be provided with the unit price 
immediately upon request. Whilst I appreciate that is a reasonable expectation, I am looking 
at whether Aviva have made an error or could do anything more within their control. 
Aviva have said this is a legacy issue as the fund was managed by a predecessor scheme. 
The price has to be calculated manually and it has to be done by certain members of staff 
who are trained in doing it. The software generally used does not include this policy and so 
the information has to be requested before being relayed to Mr and Mrs T. This is the same 
for all customers with this investment. 
Aviva have also added that they have never been a live pricing platform. They dont offer it 
for any of their products. Unfortunately, in this situation, the software used also doesnt 
generate the price for this fund. I am satisfied with the answer that Aviva have given as to 
why the price cannot be generated automatically and needs to be sought manually. 
When looking at whether Aviva could do more to provide the price to Mr and Mrs T sooner, 
they have confirmed it can be requested on the phone. But it would need to be passed to a 
relevant colleague and they would call back with the information. They also cant offer any 
guarantee as to how long this would take. Whilst Aviva did previously offer a postal option, 
they have said that they never guaranteed to offer it permanently and that for cost reasons 
they are not happy to offer it any more. I think this is reasonable. 
Aviva have also offered to provide the information by email. It would require encryption 
software to be downloaded, which Mr and Mrs T have said they are not happy to do. Aviva 
have confirmed that as policy specific information can be used for data protection questions, 
this information must be sent encrypted. I am satisfied this is reasonable. I believe Aviva 
have provided the name of some other email providers which automatically encrypt, and no 
further software would be required. This would depend upon Mr and Mrs T setting up a 
different separate email address but given this seems to be the only sustainable method of 
getting the information this doesnt feel too unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs T have raised service issues which include Aviva not coming back to them as 
promised or in a timely manner. Aviva have paid £100 for the inconvenience that these 
caused. I think this is reasonable considering the delays and the impact this had on Mr and 
Mrs T. 
In summary, I can see how frustrating this continues to be for Mr and Mrs T. They want to be 
able to get a price quickly and monitor the performance of this investment. Unfortunately, it 
isnt possible to do so for this policy and I am satisfied that Aviva have done all they can to 
try and rectify it. They have instead provided alternative methods for Mr and Mrs T to get the 
price and although they arent ideal, I feel they are fair and reasonable. I therefore dont think 
Aviva needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and 
nothing further is required to resolve the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman