DRN-2296791
Complaint
Ms B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms B bought the policy in July 1997 at the same time as applying for a credit card by postal 
application.
The policy cost no more than 70p per £100 of Ms Bs outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of her balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms B says she would not have knowingly agreed to take PPI. Barclaycard says Ms B 
completed the application form herself and chose to take it  its provided a copy of Ms Bs 
application form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick 
either yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left 
blank. Ms B has signed the application form, confirming that she agrees with the selections 
on it. So, I think Ms B was aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it at the time. The sale took place some 23 years ago, so its understandable Ms B 
may not remember this now. 
Both Ms B and Barclaycard agree that no advice was given. That means Barclaycard didnt 
have to check the policy was right for Ms B. But it did need to give her enough information 
about the PPI, so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ms B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know 
about her circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont 
think better information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Ms B.
Ms B says, at the time of sale, she was entitled to 12 months full sick pay from her employer 
and had some savings she could have used to make her repayments. She also says she 
had a critical illness policy in place and that her family could have helped her if she needed 
them to.
Our adjudicator asked Ms B if she could provide any evidence of her sick pay entitlement. In 
response to this, Ms Bs representative confirmed that she wasnt able to. So, Ive thought 
about whether I think its likely Ms B had the level of sick pay she says she did, taking into 
account the industry in which she worked and the job title she held. 
Its very unusual for an employer in the industry in which Ms B worked to offer such 
generous sick pay to its employees. With this in mind, and in the absence of anything 
persuasive to support what Ms B has told us, I dont think the likely sick pay Ms B would 
have been entitled to would have meant the policy wasnt useful to her. The policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms B received and she could have made repeated 
claims subject to a requalification period, so I think the PPI could have been useful to her if 
she fell on hard times.
While Ms B says she had some savings and could have relied on her family to help cover 
her credit card repayments. Again, I dont think this meant the policy would not have been 
useful for her. The policy would have enabled Ms B to use her savings for any other financial 
commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult time.  And while her family may 
have wanted to help, their circumstances could change which means their help could not 
always be relied on. 
Finally, Ive thought about what Ms B has said about the fact that she had a critical illness 
policy in place. Critical illness cover provides a different type of protection to PPI, so I dont 
think this shows she didnt need the PPI. 
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Ms Bs decision to take the policy. As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, which 
means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Hanna JohnsonOmbudsman