DRN-1069606
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont replace his flight simulator under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M was moving home and the removal company he appointed 
unfortunately damaged a number of his items in transit. He put in a claim for these items 
under his home insurance policy with UKI.
Whilst there was initially some discussion around what was covered and the amounts 
payable, UKI and Mr M agreed amounts for all but one of the items  a flight simulator which 
was insured by its individual parts.
Mr M bought the flight simulator from an American company (P). UKI found a company (F) 
in England which was authorised to distribute parts for P and asked it to assess the damage 
to the flight simulator and determine if it could be repaired. F said it could repair the 
damaged parts or could issue replacements for some of them. And it sent UKI two quotes to 
reflect this. UKI said it was willing to arrange for F to repair the damaged parts or would offer 
Mr M a cash settlement of the amount F had quoted to do this.
Mr M disagreed this was a fair outcome and raised a complaint. He provided an email from P 
which said his device was end of life so couldnt be repaired. And that F was not an 
authorised repairer of its devices in any event. So he said that as the device couldnt be 
repaired, under the policy terms this meant UKI needed to provide him with a replacement. 
He also said the parts he had were subject to a lifetime warranty and so an unauthorised 
repair with second-hand or remanufactured parts would invalidate his warranty.
UKI disagreed. It said the policy terms entitled it to determine whether to repair or replace an 
item. And that they didnt specify the repairer had to be authorised. UKI considered that as F 
had said it could repair the device, this was enough for it to offer Mr M a repair. And if he 
didnt want to accept this, he was only due the equivalent cash settlement. It also said his 
warranty would have already been invalidated by the accident.
As Mr M didnt agree we looked into his complaint. Our investigator didnt think UKI had 
acted unfairly. She said that UKI had the right to instruct a qualified supplier to inspect his 
device, which she considered it had done with F. She said F could still be qualified to carry 
out the repairs even if it wasnt authorised to do so and that it was fair for UKI to rely on its 
report about the repairs.
She didnt place much weight on the warranty as Mr M hadnt supplied the terms of it and 
said that by having a warranty, this suggests the device was repairable. She thought UKI 
had fairly applied the terms Mr M had agreed to, particularly as hed chosen to insure the 
components of the device individually, rather than the device as a whole item.
Mr M disagreed with her view. He said that the email from P shows that F are not authorised 
to carry out repairs and that by using second-hand or remanufactured parts (considering P 
says repairs arent available) this would result in a botched job. He referred back to the policy terms and said parts were therefore not available, meaning he was a due a 
replacement. He said there was no guarantee F could carry out the repair, so any work it did 
may fail or not be effective for long. He concluded that it wasnt fair for UKI to rely on Fs 
report as F wasnt qualified to make the report  considering P had not authorised it to be a 
repairer. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M is claiming on his contents part of his insurance policy, the first thing I have to 
consider is the terms of this. While I appreciate the terms themselves arent in dispute in this 
case, I think its helpful to set them out, as its which remedy offered by these terms that is in 
dispute. The How we settle claims section of Mr Ms policy states:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part;
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
Mr M is arguing that as P has confirmed his device cant be repaired, this means hes 
entitled to a replacement device. However not every part of Mr Ms device has been 
determined as needing repair/replacement. Just because F isnt authorised to repair an item 
doesnt mean it isnt able to determine if a part is damaged  especially as its authorised to 
distribute parts for P. So I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably in instructing F and relying 
on the report it produced. And as Mr M has chosen to insure the device by its individual 
components, rather than as a whole device, this means hes only entitled to one of the above 
remedies for damaged parts, not the whole device.
The terms set out that UKI will choose which of the above remedies to apply. So it gets to 
decide whether or not Mr M will receive replacements rather than repairs. I do understand 
Mr Ms concerns around the repair  considering what P has said to him about F and his 
device being end of life. But the policy doesnt specify that the repair will be carried out by a 
manufacturer authorised repairer, so while Mr M may only want this, this isnt what his policy 
entitles him to. And so I cant say UKI is acting unfairly in applying the terms he agreed to 
and offering for F to carry out repairs in line with their report.
I also find it contradictory that Mr M is worried about his lifetime warranty on the parts being 
invalidated, but says they cannot be repaired and quotes P saying theyre end of life. And 
as Mr M hasnt provided the terms of the warranty, I havent been able to verify how it works 
or whether it is still valid, considering what P has said and the damage to his device. So this 
hasnt changed my outcome.
P provided Mr M with a quote for a new device, which is what he wanted UKI to purchase in 
order to settle this claim. Under the policy terms, if UKI agree, hes entitled to a replacement, 
not a new or different model. So if this quote is for the same model then it seems they are 
still being manufactured  which seems to go against Ps statement that Mr Ms device was end of life. And if not  and this is a different or upgraded model  then UKI wouldnt be 
obliged to buy this device for him in any event, as its not a replacement of the item he had.
Mr M has said he wasnt willing to risk F carrying out the repair and this is why he had to 
accept the repair costs being paid to him when no replacement was offered. Hes equated F 
carrying out the repair to allowing a veterinary surgeon to operate on a person  due to 
some surgical experience. But, whilst I acknowledge his device is highly-specialised 
equipment, I cant see that the repair was a risk to him and dont agree this is a fair 
comparison.
Mr M had a damaged device that he wasnt able to use and didnt believe could be repaired. 
So if F successfully carried out a repair, hed have a working device again. However if F tried 
but was unable to repair the device, then UKI wouldve needed to consider a replacement at 
that time. The claim wouldnt be settled until one of the above remedies had been 
successfully carried out. However as Mr M has accepted UKIs offer for the cost it wouldve 
paid to carry out the repair, a remedy has now been carried out. So I consider UKI has fairly 
settled the claim and so it doesnt need to carry out any other remedy.
Mr M has told our service he is still due a replacement graphics card. And I can see the 
report F provided states the graphics card is not repairable. So in agreeing to provide Mr M 
the cost of repairing his device, UKI did need to include an amount for a new graphics card. 
UKI should confirm to Mr M whether this amount was included in the amount already paid or 
not (with confirmation from F)  and if not, make a payment to him for the outstanding 
amount. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman