DRN-4373468
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold a guaranteed life plan in 2011.
What happened
In 2011 Miss W took out a guaranteed life plan in a Santander branch. The plan provides 
fixed life cover of £25,000 and a fixed monthly premium is payable until Miss W reaches the 
age of 90. Miss W recently reviewed the plan and complained to Santander that she is 
unhappy that she has to pay the premium until she is 90. Miss W says she had mental 
health problems at the time, and she felt the plan had been forced on her.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and said it had provided Miss W with details of the 
plan on the day and in the post several days later, along with a cancellation notice. 
Miss W brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
because Miss W would reasonably have been aware of the premiums were payable until 
age 90 and that the plan was suitable for her needs at the time. 
Miss W asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss W will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will 
now explain why.
Theres no dispute the sale of the guaranteed life plan took place in 2011 when Miss W went 
to her local branch. Miss W says that she was approached by an adviser from Santander 
who discussed her protection needs. Santander is unable to provide a copy of any fact-find 
that may have been completed when the plan was sold. Whilst the fact-find may have been 
useful, Im satisfied that I can make a decision based on the testimony of Miss W and other 
records Santander has provided.
The guaranteed life plan Santander sold Miss W has a maximum death benefit of £25,000 
and a fixed monthly premium  the death benefit and the premium cannot go up or down 
during Miss Ws life and the premium is payable until Miss W reaches age 90. If Miss W 
passes before age 90, the death benefit paid out by the plan will be £25,000; and, if Miss W 
reaches age 90, she will no longer have to pay premiums, but the £25,000 death benefit will 
be paid when she passes  whatever that age may be. This means that during the early 
years of the plan, Miss W benefits from £25,000 death benefit even if shes paid less into the 
plan.
There may well have been alternative types of life cover available to Miss W, but its not my 
role to advise on alternatives plans. Instead, I have to consider whether in the circumstances 
of this complaint the plan recommended by Santander was suitable. With this in mind Ive 
considered what Miss W told Santander her circumstances were when it sold the plan. When 
she made her complaint, Miss W told Santander that when she took out the plan she had 
two dependent children  the youngest of which was 9 years old  and that the plan was 
provided to provide a cash lump sum for her family if she died. Miss W also said that the 
plan was to provide life cover for funeral expenses. I therefore think its reasonable for me to 
conclude that Miss W and the Santander adviser identified a need for life cover and that this 
would need to pay out a lump sum for the whole of Miss Ws life.
Miss W says that she can get cheaper life cover than the plan Santander sold. That may well 
be the case, but that doesnt make the guaranteed life plan unsuitable for the needs Miss W 
and Santander agreed in 2011. The plan Santander recommended had a fixed premium, 
provided guaranteed life cover for family protection and funeral cover for the whole of Miss 
Ws life.
Miss W says that the monthly premium was unaffordable at the time she took out the plan 
and is unaffordable now as she is not employed. As Ive mentioned earlier in my decision, I 
havent been able to review the fact-find completed at the time so I can be sure what was 
discussed at the time in this regard. However, Ive seen that Miss W was sent a plan 
schedule and cancellation notice in the post, and as these clearly explain what the premium 
was that Miss W had committed to, I think its more likely than not Miss W and Santander 
agreed that the premiums were affordable at the time. I think this is supported by Miss W 
and Santander agreed to set the death benefit at the maximum level for the plan of £25,000, 
as if Miss W had given an indication the monthly premium for this level of cover was 
unaffordable, its more likely than not a lower level of cover would have been selected. 
Ive seen that Miss W has paid the premiums since the start of the plan, and when payments 
have been missed, she quicky paid them after a reminder letter. Im aware that this had 
happened on three occasions in the 11 plus years since the plan started. Of course, it may 
now be that Miss W can no longer afford the premiums  due to a change in circumstances - 
but I can only consider whether the premiums were more likely than not affordable at the 
time the sale took place, and on balance I think they were.
Miss W is upset that shes found out she gets no cash-in value if she cancels the plan, and 
she feels the premiums shes paid to date are a loss to her. I cant see anything in the 
testimony from Miss W or the evidence provided that suggest Miss W agreed a need for 
savings. And, the documents Santander supplied at the time of the sale, and shortly after, 
makes it reasonably clear that the guaranteed life plan doesnt have a cash-in value at any 
time - and that depending how long she lived, Miss W may pay more in premiums than the 
death benefit provides. Regardless of this, the plan has been providing £25,000 of life cover, 
and will do so for the rest of Miss Ws life, and Im persuaded Miss W agreed this is what she 
needed at the time it was sold.
Miss W has asked that any decision takes into account that she was suffering with mental 
health issues at the time of the sale. Santander says that when Miss W complained about 
the sale of the plan, she confirmed she wasnt suffering any health issues at time she took 
out the plan. I cant say whether Miss W made Santander aware of any health issues at the 
time of the sale as there is no evidence either way and the application form doesnt ask any 
medical questions. However, although Miss W took out the plan in branch, Santander did 
provide details of the plan separately by post shortly after the sale. I think this would have 
given Miss W time to reflect on the plan  its benefits and her commitment to a long-term 
premium  and I thinks its more likely than not that if Miss W had felt forced into taking out 
the plan when at the branch, the cooling-off notice would have provided an opportunity for 
Miss W to cancel the plan if she felt it had been forced on her. As Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Miss W attempted to cancel the plan up until she made her complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude the plan was forced on Miss W. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint against Santander UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman