DRN-2643034
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him a whole of 
life insurance policy in 1993. He says it wasnt suitable to protect the mortgage he was 
taking out at the same time; that he wasnt offered any other type of policies; and he wasnt 
told he would have to continue to pay for the policy until death.
What happened
In 1993 Mr G was buying a property and at the same time as setting this up he was 
recommended he take out some life insurance to protect that borrowing.
He and his then partner were sold a joint whole of life policy, known as a Flexiplus plan, with 
an initial sum assured that matched that of the mortgage.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Mr G was given the options of taking a different type of policy such as a 
term assurance at the time of the sale. He also felt that from the information provided and 
the annotations on these documents from the time of the sale that Mr G had thought about 
the protection he needed and made his own choice to take the whole of life policy  mainly 
for the flexibility aspect of it.
Mr G didnt agree with the assessment. He commented that the annotations were not made 
by him and said the adviser had described the policy incorrectly. He said he was led to 
believe the policy was more flexible than it was and the ongoing costs or the difference in 
costs of the other policies over a longer period of time were not explained to him.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
Its important to first make clear that my role is to look at all the evidence provided and 
decide based on balance what I think is more likely to have happened. I wasnt at the 
meeting where the policy was sold to Mr G so I cant know for certain what was discussed 
but I must weigh up what is in front of me and decide what I think is fair and reasonable in 
the given circumstances.
Mr Gs primary complaint is that the policy wasnt suitable for his mortgage. And at first 
glance I would agree. Usually if all a consumer wanted was protection for their mortgage, I 
would expect a term assurance policy to be recommended. This is usually set up over the 
same term as the mortgage and the same amount and therefore when the mortgage term 
ends so does the policy - this ensures the policyholder isnt over insured. And the policy is 
designed to pay out if the policyholder passes away during that term and then it ends.
In contrast, a whole of life policy will run until the life assured passes away, whenever that 
may be, and remains in place until this time or until it is cancelled. There is an investment 
element to these types of policies which means there is a chance the premiums would have 
to increase at various points in the life of the policy if the original sum assured/death benefit 
is to be maintained.
Both are useful policies but if, as I have said, the only objective is to protect the borrowing 
and no other protection is required past the term of the borrowing then the term assurance 
policy is the most suitable.
However, one of the only exceptions to this would be where it is clear the consumer decided 
to take another type of policy than what was recommended to him  and this must be 
ascertained by looking at anything that was documented from the time of the sale.
In this complaint I can see that Mr G was provided with details and illustrations of a number 
of term assurance policies and the whole of life policy. The illustrations for the term 
assurance policies set out what the monthly premium would be for the total death benefit Mr 
G wanted. It also explained how long the policy would be in force for.  The whole of life 
illustration sets out the initial costs and also details that the sum assured could be set at 
between £12,000 and £55,000. It also says the business will periodically reassess whether 
the sum assured can be maintained until the next period of reassessment.
Therefore, in light of this information it appears to me that Mr G was presented with a 
number of policies that he could have taken at that time 
Further to this there are hand written notes on the whole of life illustration concerning, 
amongst other things, the units within the policy. And the document even confirms that the 
Flexiplus was accepted due to actual flexibility of the product ad advantage of some 
savings. Therefore, it would seem to me that Mr G chose to take the whole of life policy over 
the term assurance policies that he was presented with.
I know Mr G has said the annotations werent made by him and whilst that may be true its 
clear this document was completed with him being present so I think it unlikely the adviser 
would have written anything on the papers without Mr G agreeing to it.
I appreciate that Mr G has said the policy wasnt described accurately to him and the 
flexibility was overstated but I havent seen anything in the information provided to me by 
both parties that supports this. And given I know he received all the information about the 
policy I think he was in a position to know what the policy was when he agreed to take it out.
Overall, therefore, in light of all the evidence provided, I cant see that Aviva has done 
anything wrong. And while its usually unsuitable to have a whole of life policy protecting a 
mortgage, in this specific situation it was recorded why this happened and I am satisfied this 
is reasonable. I am also satisfied that Aviva gave Mr G information about the other policies 
available to him but despite this Mr G decided to take the whole of life policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman