DRN-3382084
The complaint
Mr M complains Ageas Insurance Limited pre-populated incorrect details about his car when 
he was applying to take out a motor insurance policy. Hes unhappy it later charged him to 
change these details when it identified they were wrong.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy in August 2021.  He initially spoke to someone over 
the phone and later filled in an online form to apply for the policy. Ageas has said during the 
online application, it automatically pre-populates answers to some questions based on the 
records held by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA). 
During Mr Ms application, the details which were filled in already were the date of purchase 
and the value of his car. Although Mr M had bought his car that day, the DVLAs records of 
the last date of sale were from around August 2016 so thats what was pre-filled. 
The value of the car was set at £3195 but Mr M changed it to £5,000. He also changed the 
month of purchase to July but he didnt change the year. The following month, Ageas wrote 
to him to ask for more details about when he purchased the car. Mr M replied the same day 
with the evidence requested. 
As the purchase date recorded on the application form was incorrect, Ageas updated it and 
charged Mr M an additional £56.14. Its said this amount was made up of an additional 
premium and an administration fee of £25. Ageas has said the additional premium wouldve 
been charged if the quote was based on the correct sale date from the beginning. 
Unhappy with Ageas response and the service received, Mr M raised a complaint. In its final 
response letter, Ageas accepted it took too long to respond and initially gave incorrect 
information about what happened. So it offered Mr M £75 as compensation. But it said he 
couldve changed the data in the application and he was made aware of the importance of 
checking the details were correct. So it disagreed it needed to do anything more. 
As things werent resolved, Mr M asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought the offer Ageas had already made was fair and he didnt 
think it was responsible for the incorrect details. Mr M agreed the premium would be affected 
by the incorrect details on the application form but he didnt accept our investigators view 
that it was his error. So the complaints been passed to me to reach a final decision on. 
Both parties have given us copies of the point of sale documentation including the statement 
of fact which was sent to Mr M following the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ive been given. And whilst I see Mr Ms point of view, 
Im not upholding this complaint, I know hell be very disappointed. Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute whether the price of the policy depended on the date of purchase of the car 
so Ive not looked into that. What Ive looked into in this case is whether its fair for Ageas to 
charge Mr M for changing the incorrect details. Both parties accept the incorrect information 
was pre-populated by Ageas. Mr M thinks Ageas is responsible for the information being 
wrong  whereas Ageas thinks it was Mr Ms for not checking it carefully. 
Its not unusual for motor insurance applications to take pre-fill parts of the application to 
assist customers in completing the form. And it seems to me Mr M was aware he could 
change the pre-populated details on the form as he changed some parts of it. So I think its 
more likely he realised he needed to check this information  and change it where it wasnt 
quite right. As Mr M changed the month of purchase, Im satisfied he checked over the date 
and realised it was wrong  but just didnt notice the year wasnt correct either. And I can see 
how that could happen. But it was Mr Ms responsibility to make sure the information given 
during the application was correct, including the details that had been pre-populated  and 
there doesnt seem to be a dispute that the application asks customers to check their details 
carefully. 
Even if I did think it wasnt Mr Ms fault that the information on the application was incorrect, 
following the sale of the policy, he was sent a statement of fact which showed all of the 
details of his policy and the insured vehicle. Next to Date of Purchase, the statement of fact 
says 06 August 2016. And under a notice marked Important, it asks the policyholder to 
check the information carefully and notify Ageas if anything is incorrect. Mr M took out the 
policy around the time he bought the car. So I think the date of its purchase wouldve been 
fresh in his mind. And when he received this document, I think its reasonable to expect he 
wouldve noticed this incorrect information and let Ageas know. 
I appreciate Mr Ms said before completing the online application, he spoke to someone over 
the phone about his circumstances. And they were aware he was purchasing the car that 
day  and how much he was buying it for. So he thinks its unreasonable the pre-populated 
data on the online application form was wrong. From what hes said, I dont think Mr M 
completed his application over the phone but instead received a quote and then took the 
policy out online. And this seems likely as hes said the price of the insurance changed at 
that point. So its possible his online application was separate from the phone call. But even 
if it wasnt  and for example he was completing an application hed started over the phone  
I still think it was up to him to ensure the details were correct, and he had the opportunity to 
let Ageas know after receiving the statement of fact. 
Mr Ms unhappy with how long it took Ageas to get in touch about the incorrect information. I 
can see the application was completed on 28 August 2021 and Ageas contacted him the 
following month around 17 September 2021  so just under three weeks. And I dont think 
thats an unreasonable amount of time considering the checks that are required. 
I understand Mr Ms unhappy with the wrong information Ageas gave him when it first looked 
into his complaint  and the time it took for it to respond to him. But Ageas has already 
offered him £75 to make up for this. And I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman