DRN-2142168
The complaint
Mrs J complains that she has lost money as a result of the way St James's Place UK plc 
(SJP) dealt with her instruction to encash her investment. 
Background
Mrs J held an investment in an ISA wrapper with SJP. On 27 February 2020, on her behalf, 
her husband gave an instruction by email to their advisor to encash her investment and send 
the proceeds to her bank account. They chased the advisor on several occasions over the 
next few days as the funds hadnt been received. When the funds arrived in the account Mrs 
J received less than she was expecting based on the valuation available before giving the 
instruction to encash. 
On her behalf, Mrs Js husband raised concerns with SJP about how the transaction was 
completed. SJP responded by saying that the encashment was completed at the earliest 
possible time. It said that Mrs J had a direct debit in place to fund her ISA each month and at 
the time she gave the instruction a payment was pending. It said only once this payment was 
complete could a valuation and encashment take place. The direct debit was fully processed 
on 2 March 2020 and the funds were encashed the next day. 
Mrs Js husband responded and said they were unhappy that they werent informed of the 
delays caused by the direct debit despite him chasing the encashment. SJP investigated the 
complaint but didnt think it had made any errors in completing the transaction. Mrs J was not 
satisfied with SJPs response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. In his opinion, SJP 
acted fairly when encashing the funds in the ISA and in line with Mrs Js instructions. Mrs J 
didnt accept the investigators view. Her husband responded on her behalf and said they 
were never told that the existence of a direct debit could affect their ability to encash this 
investment. They say they would have given a different instruction had they known of this 
issue. They asked for Mrs Js complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the conclusion that the complaint should not be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs J wanted to encash the funds in her ISA and gave a clear instruction. SJP said it 
completed the transaction as soon as it could and without delay. This was on the third 
working day after Mrs J gave her instruction, so Ive considered whether SJP caused an 
avoidable delay when acting on the instruction. 
The transaction did take longer than Mrs J expected. But I find the explanation given by SJP 
for the time it took to encash the investment as reasonable in the circumstances. SJP says 
Mrs J had a pending direct debit at the time she gave the instruction. The terms of her ISA 
account say if a withdrawal requests is received it will happen at the next valuation point 
after it receives the request. SJP says the pending direct debit meant that it couldnt 
immediately value the ISA and it could only do this when the direct debit process was 
complete, and the new units were applied to the ISA.  As soon as the direct debit was 
complete the new units were purchased and SJP encashed the full ISA value with no delay.  
So, I havent found that SJP caused a delay. 
I accept that SJPs advisor could have provided more information to Mrs J or her husband 
about the effect of the pending direct debit had on the encashment. But I dont think this 
means that Mrs J has lost out. They were told the reason for the transaction not completing 
as quickly as they expected within a few days. And there was little more that could be done if 
they found out sooner given the timing of the instruction. So, while I do appreciate their 
frustration about not being given more information, Im not going to be asking SJP to do 
anything further here. 
I have noted Mrs Js husbands comments about not being made aware of the impact of 
having a direct debit set up would have on their ability to encash the investment. They raised 
concerns that at no time during their association with SJP did it tell them anything about this. 
They say they would have acted differently if this would have been explained to them. They 
say they would have given an instruction before the end of the month to avoid any problems 
with completing this transaction. I understand the point being made, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs J was considering encashing her investment at a specific early 
point. In the complaint referral to this service Mr J explained that on the evening of 26 
February 2020 he reviewed both his and his wifes ISA holdings and decided to liquidate 
their portfolios. So, it seems most likely this was the point that the decision was made to 
encash Mrs Js ISA. So even if she was aware of the issue of the pending direct debit, she 
still would not have been able to encash her investment sooner.  
From the information available, I havent found anything to suggest SJP acted unfairly or 
made mistakes when following Mrs Js instruction to encash her investment. I appreciate      
Mrs Js disappointment with the value she received but that doesnt mean it was as a result 
of errors by SJP. Im satisfied SJP completed the encashment as soon as practically 
possible, as per Mrs Js instructions. I havent found that SJP is responsible for any financial 
loss Mrs J believes she has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman