DRN-3521176
The complaint
Mrs W complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact (Transact), 
caused her loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
What happened
Mrs W held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call X. Transact was 
registered as the legal owner of the shares.
X was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands.
On 16 August 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice of a pending corporate 
action, saying it intended to restructure X by merging it into a new company. According 
to the notice the final merger plan and documentation for this corporate action were 
expected in one to four weeks with it completing within a further four weeks. The notice 
said the redemption period for shares in X was being immediately extended to almost a 
year. Transact passed this notice to Mrs Ws adviser it had on its records on 17 August 
2012. 
On 2 October the operator of X wrote again to Transact with the notice of special 
meeting of shareholders with plans of and to approve the merger, as well as an investor 
letter. As a result of the merger Mrs Ws shares in X would be exchanged for bonds 
issued by the new company. Transact did not pass this notice on. The restructure 
completed in November.
There was a further corporate action in 2013. The bond wasnt redeemed at the end of 
the intended five-year term in 2017 and was further restructured. The bonds value was 
adjusted to near zero on Mrs Ws Transact statements and remains unredeemed. 
In support of her complaint, Mrs W has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary: 
Transact had failed in its duties as a platform provider and as an operator of a SIPP.
The October 2012 notice was news of a potential fundamental change to her investment 
and Transact shouldve passed this on to her.
The restructure left her with a lower value and higher-risk asset, and she believes 
Transact ought to have assessed its appropriateness for her.
Although Mrs Ws shares didnt give her a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law 
gave Mrs W a right to object to it and to receive instead a cash redemption of a fair 
value for her shares. If Transact had done more and earlier to inform Mrs W about the 
restructure and advise her of her options, she wouldve been able to exercise and 
enforce those rights and avoid the loss that arose. And if not in the Marshall Islands,   
Mrs W could have initiated litigation in the English courts.
Mrs W had changed her financial advisory firm in March 2012 but Transact had sent the 
August notification to the email address of her previous individual adviser who was not 
an appointed representative of Mrs Ws new financial advisory firm. Transact had not 
identified the legal entity it was dealing with and couldnt have been sure it was 
corresponding with the correct financial advisory firm.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transacts terms meant it wasnt obliged to inform Mrs W of any corporate action but did 
have to pay due regard to Mrs Ws interests and treat her fairly. The notification received 
by Transact in August 2012 gave details of the restructure and the timeline, so when it 
was sent onto Mrs Ws adviser  rather than to her directly  it was reasonable for 
Transact to have expected Mrs Ws adviser to have discussed it with her. 
The investigator said that Transact had emailed the adviser as recorded on its records. 
Mrs W had notified Transact of a change of advisory firm (which operated within the 
same group of companies) in March 2012 but her individual adviser at both advisory 
firms been the same since 2011 and used the same email address. So, Transact had 
acted fairly and reasonably in sending the August notification to the email address it did 
hold. 
Transact had acknowledged that it should have passed on the 2 October 
communication. The investigator concluded that as it contained important information 
Transact ought reasonably to have sent this on. 
The investigator went onto consider the impact of this and concluded that even if 
Transact had passed on the information the investigator wasnt persuaded that it was 
more likely than not that Mrs W would be in a different position so it wouldnt have made 
any difference to Mrs Ws current position. 
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate what options were available to Mrs W in 2012 
or any legal implications regarding the corporate action. That would have gone beyond 
the scope of what was expected of a nominee. And the corporate action didnt invite a 
response from B class shareholders  the shares Mrs W held  so Mrs W wasnt denied 
an opportunity to vote on the merger.
Even if it was agreed that Transact should have gone further, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded it was more likely Mrs W would have received her investment back. Mrs Ws 
shares were non-voting and the investigator couldnt be sure that Marshall Islands law 
would have provided Mrs W the opportunity to exit the investment or that a claim would 
have been successful. And at the time there was no indication the new holding was likely 
to result in the losses incurred so the investigator couldnt be certain that Mrs W would 
have pursued that route in any event. 
The bonds resulting from the restructure werent a new holding Transact was accepting 
onto its platform, but a change to an existing holding. So, Transact didnt have to assess 
the appropriateness of the bonds. Mrs W had referred to a court case about a SIPP 
operator and that it was relevant to her complaint. But the investigator didnt agree as 
that court case concerned the actions of a SIPP operator when accepting an investment 
into a wrapper which wasnt the case here as it was a corporate action impacting an existing investment. 
Mrs W didnt wish to accept the investigators opinion. She provided a personal account of 
the impact of what had happened to her investment and raised concerns about a conflict of 
interest between parties who advised, operated, and distributed the investments. Mrs W felt 
let down by the financial services industry. 
Mrs W suggested this service consider mediating between the parties and also requested 
that the ombudsman dealing with her complaint speak with her. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
I should first say that I appreciate Mrs W wished to speak with me before I issued my final 
decision and also suggested that I considered mediating between the parties. However, and 
I dont mean any discourtesy to Mrs W by not speaking with her, but I have to be fair to both 
parties to the complaint and allow them equal opportunity in making their submissions for me 
to consider. And Id like to reassure Mrs W I am satisfied that the submissions I have 
received from both parties to the complaint give me sufficient insight and understanding for 
me to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
And with regard to mediation of the complaint, that is not the role of the service. Rather it is 
to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion taking into account the particular and individual 
circumstances of the complaint. So, I wont be considering any of the wider issues Mrs W 
has raised, and my decision relates solely to the restructure that took place in 2012. 
Id mention Ive not considered what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, 
when Mrs W made the investment or its due diligence in accepting it onto its platform at that 
time  so if Mrs W has concerns about those events, shed have to raise them with Transact 
separately and Ive not considered whether that could fall within our jurisdiction now. 
Ive not considered any of that here because, from how shes described her complaint,     
Mrs W isnt complaining about her initial investment into shares of X and Im being asked to 
decide matters solely related to the 2012 restructure.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mrs W relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. Mrs Ws 
complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment onto its platform but about the 
restructuring of an investment already held on its platform. 
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mrs Ws interests, treat her fairly, pay due 
regard to her information needs and give information to her in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The August 2012  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was sought 
and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within the next 
1-4 weeks and that the restructuring process should be complete within four weeks after 
that. Like the investigator, I think when Transact sent this on to Mrs Ws adviser it was fair 
and reasonable for it to have expected her adviser to discuss it with her. 
Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though Mrs W didnt have a right 
to vote on the restructure, I think Transact wasnt being unreasonable to decide to pass this 
on, bearing in mind its obligations. 
Transact didnt send on the notice it received in October 2012. That notice  a Notice of 
special meeting of shareholders  which was to take place on 16 October, was to inform 
shareholders of the plan of the merger and the bond for share swap. This notice contained 
important information about Mrs Ws investment, and I think Transact should reasonably 
have sent this onto Mrs Ws adviser firm.
Taking this into account I have gone on to consider the impact of that on Mrs W and whether 
she could have done anything differently if she had been fully informed. 
The notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for Mrs W to avoid her 
investment in X exchanged for the bonds through the restructure, and she didnt have a vote 
on whether it went through. Mrs W has referred to the lack of opportunity of other rights or 
legal options that her or her adviser could have explored. 
But I have gone on to consider what other options were open to Mrs W and what she could 
have done if she had been made aware of the October 2012 notice. If Mrs W had been told 
of the restructure proposals by Transact Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been 
her either successfully redeeming her investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall 
Islands law, securing in the UK courts an award by virtue of which she was likely to 
successfully recover a payment to reduce her losses. 
However, I dont think that notice offered Mrs W the opportunity to respond nor did it offer 
Mrs W the opportunity to vote on the planned merger. So, Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Mrs W would potentially have been in a different position than she is now if she, or her 
adviser, had had sight of the notice. 
I should make clear that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact to 
have investigated, considered, or advised Mrs W about wider rights of that kind upon receipt 
of the October 2012 notice. 
Mrs W doesnt agree Transact informed her, through her adviser, of the August notice. But 
from what Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using the email address 
it had for Mrs Ws adviser. I say this having carefully considered all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In short, I dont agree with what Mrs W has said about those 
interactions indicating that the business behind them was not the adviser business that 
Transact thought it was. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to do what it did 
in August 2012 and forward information about the potential corporate action notice to the 
email address it used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mrs Ws individual adviser at 
the time wasnt aware of the potential restructuring of the fund outlined in that notice.
So, I think by doing what it did Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mrs Ws adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to communicate with 
Mrs W about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the adviser  and using the 
email address  she had registered on its system.
The notice was information about a potential substantial change to Mrs Ws investment  a 
merger and reversing of both the Fund and of our management operations into a new 
holding & subsidiary company structure. But I dont think Transact needed to do more than 
it did. It had no obligation to provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. It 
was for Mrs W, and her adviser, to consider the implications, decide what to do and look into 
it further if needed.
So, I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investment or for Mrs W as an investor. Nor do I think that 
Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the investment Mrs W was to 
potentially receive as a result of the merger, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment 
but an alteration to an existing one.
In saying this I note the August and October notices about the restructure didnt outline or 
offer any way for Mrs W to avoid having her investment in X exchanged for the bonds 
through the restructure, and she didnt have a vote on whether it went through. So, I dont 
think Mrs W is in a worse position if her adviser had been sent both notices and not just the 
August one. 
Other rights or legal options Mrs W might have had in relation to the restructure, that arose 
from her status as a shareholder rather than from the restructure proposals themselves  for 
example as a result of the company law governing the fund in the territory in which it was 
legally based  were rights or options that it was for her or her adviser to explore and 
consider. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact to have 
investigated, considered, or advised Mrs W about wider rights of that kind. 
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mrs Ws investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of the shares, it was safeguarding Mrs Ws investment by acting as custodian. So, Transact 
had to keep Mrs Ws investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
her on how to get out of the investment if she wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So, with the exception that Transact didnt pass on the October notice  which to be clear I 
think it should have done  I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the 
notices it received  to the extent that it needed to do more than it did in considering the 
implications of the restructure for Mrs W. It follows that I dont think any losses Mrs W 
suffered on her investment were losses caused by failings by Transact in how it dealt with 
things at the time of the notices and the restructure.Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs W or her adviser, upon becoming aware 
of the potential merger in August 2012 , raised any points about Mrs W having lost rights by 
virtue of not having been able to dissent in the way Mrs W has since described. Also, theres 
no suggestion Mrs W requested a redemption upon having been made aware of the 
restructure in November. So, its not at all obvious that Mrs W or her adviser were aware of 
any such legal rights and Ive nothing to suggest Mrs W wouldve been likely to attempt to 
enforce those rights at that time. 
Overall, I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mrs W wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of Mrs W investment and 
the losses she says arose as a result of that conversion. 
So although, given what happened here and the losses she suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mrs Ws situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in connection 
with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman