DRN-3236774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc wont extend their mortgage and convert it 
from interest only to a repayment basis.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a mortgage with Santander which is split into two elements. Part is on a 
repayment basis which ends in 2026. And the other part is on an interest only basis which 
expired in 2020. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs A applied to convert the entire mortgage to a repayment basis and 
extend the term. Mr and Mrs A say this was agreed in principle, but, when they submitted a 
full application, this was declined. Santander said that as Mr As income comes, in part, from 
self-employment, they required accounts which are certified by a qualified accountant, which 
Mr As accountant isnt. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Santander. Santander wasnt willing to change its decision 
regarding the mortgage application. But it offered £50 compensation for not telling 
Mr and Mrs A about its decision. Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs A referred the 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He was satisfied that Santander was 
entitled to ask for Mr and Mrs A to provide accounts by a qualified accountant. He thought 
that because Mr and Mrs A hadnt done, Santander was entitled to decline their application.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
So, its been passed to me to review and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points explaining why he thinks Santander should accept his 
accounts as they are and why he shouldnt need them certified by a qualified accountant. I 
wont repeat all of his reasoning here and I may not respond to each point directly. I want to 
reassure him I have thought about each point hes made, but the informal remit of this 
service means I can focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint. That is that 
Santander should accept his accounts, regardless of the fact that his accountant is 
unqualified. 
Lending decisions such as this one are subject to the criteria of individual lenders. And, 
whilst the industry regulator does set out minimum standards (such as that income must be 
proven and verified), its generally for lenders to decide what evidence they will or wont 
accept as evidence when assessing and underwriting an application. 
I do understand Mr As points about why his accounts are right, and Im not suggesting they 
arent. However, I can also understand why Santander would put its confidence in accounts 
produced by a qualified accountant, rather than an unqualified one. Santander has provided 
a copy of its lending criteria to show this is its policy. So, its not just Mr and Mrs A who have 
been asked for this  its Santanders standard practice for those who are self-employed.  
I know Mr and Mrs A say that the changes they wish to make to the mortgage are easily 
affordable to them. That may be correct. But they would need to satisfy Santander of this. 
And without engaging a qualified accountant, it seems they wont be able to do so.
Mr A has said he is aware that other lenders will accept accounts from unqualified 
accountants. This may well be the case. However, that doesnt mean that Santander must 
act in the same way.
Ultimately, Im satisfied this is a decision Santander is entitled to make. Mr M has the option 
of either engaging a new accountant  though I understand he is reluctant to due to the 
costs and his existing relationship with his current accountant. Alternatively, he can look to 
another lender who may be able to help him. Again, I realise this isnt Mr and Mrs As 
preference for a number of reasons, but they may need to if Santander cannot assist them. 
It's unclear what actions Santander may now take given that the interest only element of 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage has expired, and the repayment part hasnt. I havent considered 
that as part of this complaint. If Mr and Mrs A do keep their mortgage with Santander, they 
would need to discuss this with Santander. And Id remind Santander of its obligations to 
treat them fairly in the circumstances and to consider various options such as harmonising 
the end dates of the mortgage. 
I note that Santander offered £50 for its delay in communicating its decision to Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A havent raised this issue specifically with us. But, for completeness, I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Overall, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about this matter, Im satisfied 
Santander is entitled to make the decision it has and Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman