DRN-2001136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt allow them to port their mortgage 
product and so they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they took out a 
mortgage on a new property. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a new fixed rate mortgage product with Lloyds on their existing 
property in April 2019. The mortgage was repayment with an outstanding balance of 
£117,955.00 on a property valued at £325,519.00. The remaining term was 11 years and 9 
months. The term of the mortgage product was fixed until 31 July 2021. Section 7 of the 
mortgage offer contained a section Early Repayment which specified an ERC of 1.5% if the 
mortgage was paid off before 31 July 2021. Section 8 has a section Additional features 
which included a part headed Taking your product to a new mortgage . This is known as 
porting and that section describes how such applications are processed.
Mr and Mrs S decided on moving to a new house and got a verbal agreement in principle for 
a loan of £509,000.00 although they required less - £390,000.00. But the application was 
declined on affordability grounds. Mr and Mrs S went to another lender and secured a loan 
without any difficulty in respect of affordability but had to pay an ERC to Lloyds which they 
consider to be unfair. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as he felt that Lloyds acted within the terms of the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed saying in summary that Lloyds made an error and that they shouldnt have to pay 
for this error. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out a fixed rate mortgage product in early 2019 and later in 2019 moved 
to a new house. Like most fixed rate products, this had an ERC for early repayment. The 
product offer had a section which said that if Mr and Mrs S applied for a loan on a new 
property and Lloyds agreed to the loan, they could transfer over the mortgage product, but 
the application would be subject to Lloyds terms and conditions at the time of application.
Mr and Mrs S, in their letter to Lloyds of 14 November 2019, whilst accepting that an ERC 
may be payable say the contract also states that the mortgage was fully portable. I know 
thats the impression Mr and Mrs S may have formed but I cannot discover these words in 
the relevant section of the mortgage offer and indeed the sections Ive read indicate that it 
isnt fully portable. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds misled them to take out the product offer 
on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs S could port but entirely subject to the success of their application for a new 
loan. Their application wasnt a like for like by which I mean they werent looking for a similar 
amount of borrowing. The new loan amount was over three times higher than the existing 
borrowing. Lloyds assessed the application. It didnt meet their lending criteria and it was 
turned down. Mr and Mrs S refer to a number of errors by Lloyds in its assessment. But it 
has made available to us its lending criteria and my view is that the application was 
assessed fairly within that criteria. I do understand that Mr and Mrs S are annoyed as their 
application was accepted by another lender. But different lenders will have different 
processes, and, in my view, Lloyds hasnt acted unfairly within its own criteria, So, on that 
basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman