DRN-3101920
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) shouldnt have charged him interest on 
repayments to his credit card, following a conversation he had with them.
What happened
Mr W was on a debt management plan from around October 2019 and he says he was 
paying no interest on his credit card at the time. Mr W holds a credit card with HSBC, who he 
says was his biggest creditor that he repaid through the plan. His financial circumstances 
began to improve and so he says he was considering leaving the debt management plan 
and making his credit card repayments directly to HSBC. Mr W says he was told that if he 
started to make payment directly to HSBC, there would be no change to interest being 
applied. But when he left the plan he was on and began making direct payments to HSBC, 
interest charges accrued.
He believes it would have been better to stay on the debt management plan and pay no 
interest to help clear his balance quicker on his debt. 
HSBC wrote to Mr W and apologised for the confusion about his repayment arrangement. As 
a gesture of goodwill, they refunded interest amounts totalling around £70, along with some 
additional compensation of £25. Mr W believes the interest amounts totalling around £70 
was around one month of interest payments.
Mr W remained unhappy with HSBCs response and so referred his complaint to our service.
He says that when considering exiting the debt management plan, his decision was largely 
based on HSBC not charging him ongoing interest as the largest portion of his debt was with 
them. He says he was told explicitly on a call with HSBC that everything would remain the 
same and no interest will be charged. He says that had he known he would be charged 
interest, he would have continued on the debt management plan. Mr W says he is currently 
paying to HSBC directly and interest is being applied.
HSBC say they were unable to listen to the call where Mr W says he was given incorrect 
information, so they refunded the sums above as a gesture of goodwill. But they believe their 
terms make it clear Mr Ws contractual position on paying interest and that the full balance 
needs to be paid by the statement due date to avoid interest. On some occasions they say 
they may be able to suspend interest as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator felt that HSBC hadnt done enough to put things right. He felt that, while he 
hadnt been able to listen to any recording, Mr W says he was told the incorrect information, 
he was persuaded by what he said and believes the incorrect information led him to exit the 
debt management plan at an earlier stage than was necessary. He found that it was likely Mr 
Ws debt management plan would have been reviewed at around 12 months after he started 
the plan. He felt that it is likely at that stage Mr W would have exited the plan, given his 
financial circumstances had improved and had he not been given incorrect information in a 
call with HSBC. So, he felt that HSBC should refund all interest payments and charges he 
paid since exiting his debt management plan to before November 2020s interest charges 
being applied.
HSBC responded saying they accepted the investigators view. Mr W responded saying he 
disagreed with it. He believes that at the next review of the debt management plan he would 
not have been advised to make the payments directly to HSBC, but rather remain in the plan 
and pay an increased amount, given his financial circumstances had improved. He believes, 
crucially, these increased payments would not have been subject to interest and charges.
The case has now been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and my thoughts are broadly similar to that of 
our investigator.
HSBC say that their terms make it clear Mr Ws contractual position on paying interest on his 
credit card and that the full balance needs to be paid by the statement due date to avoid 
interest. They also believe it was Mr Ws choice to leave the plan. While the terms of Mr Ws 
credit card do make it clear when interest will accrue and when it needs to be paid, Ive 
considered what is fair in these circumstances.
Mr W says he was in a debt management plan from around October 2019. He says he was 
considering exiting the plan to build up his credit score. So he says he discussed his options 
with HSBC as they were the largest creditor he owed money to. He wanted to understand 
whether interest will begin to be charged again if he started to pay them back directly rather 
than through a debt management plan. Mr W believes he was told in a call with HSBC that 
interest wouldnt be charged if he made payments directly to them. So, he left his plan and 
began to pay HSBC back directly, resulting in interest charges.
HSBCs notes show that Mr W called and asked if he could start paying directly in August 
2020. But their notes arent clear or detailed, and HSBC is unable to locate a recording of 
the call. While I cant know exactly what was said, Im persuaded by Mr Ws testimony that 
the interest payments were discussed. HSBC has already paid Mr W around £95 and its 
agreed with our investigators recommendation to remove any other interest that was applied 
before November 2020. Mr W doesnt think this is enough. He thinks HSBC should remove 
all the interest it charged from the end of the plan and stop charging any further interest until 
hes cleared the debt.
A business doesnt have to stop charging interest even if someone is on a debt management 
plan. But they do have an obligation to act positively and sympathetically if they are aware 
that their customer is experiencing financial difficulties. In this instance, HSBC agreed not to 
charge interest when the plan was in place. But Mr W decided to end the plan after around 
ten months as he says HSBC told him it would continue not to charge interest. I dont know 
exactly what was said in that call and as Ive said above, Im persuaded by what Mr W has 
said. So its possible he was given misleading information. But HSBC has agreed to refund 
any interest applied before November 2020. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im pleased that Mr W has had the benefit of the debt management plan to help with his 
financial circumstances and help him to get back on track with his repayments. But I dont 
think it is fair for HSBC to be expected to allow Mr W to continue to pay no interest charges 
indefinitely or for a further period of time past its original debt management plan. The website of the debt management organisation the plan was arranged with says it must 
review the plan at least once a year. Mr W says his financial circumstances improved to the 
point where he was no longer paying back some of his other creditors through the plan. So I 
think its reasonable to assume he was in a position to leave the plan at the end of its review 
after 12 months and pay back directly to HSBC.
In these circumstances I cant say HSBC needs to do anything further other than what Ive 
asked them to do below.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund any interest or charges applied to Mr Ws credit card 
account from when he left the plan up until the end of October 2020. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
have already refunded some interest charges to Mr W. So their further refund should be 
minus what theyve already refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman