DRN-3662338
The complaint
Mr V says esure Insurance Limited acted unreasonably when he sought a quote for motor 
insurance from it by asking him for information that he thinks wasnt relevant. He thinks by 
doing so it treated him less favourably than others on the grounds of his national origin. 
What happened
esures sales advisor asked Mr V whether hed been resident in the UK since birth. When he  
said no, the advisor said he needed the month and year Mr V became resident here. Mr V 
estimated that it was 30-40 years ago. The advisor said Mr V should check his residency 
paperwork or contact the Home Office for the precise details. 
Mr V queried why the question was being asked, as hed been insured with esure previously 
and said it wasnt asked then. He also said other insurers only asked if a consumer had 
been resident here for a specific number of years or more. The advisor said Mr V would 
have been asked the same question before buying a policy or getting a quote from esure - 
and that it was asked so esure could decide whether a consumer had knowledge of UK 
roads and the Highway Code. Mr V thought that explanation wasnt credible and that the 
question was asked so esure could charge more to consumers who were born abroad.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Vs complaint. She said it was for the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to set the rules for insurers and that we 
cant tell an insurer what questions to ask consumers. The investigator said the question 
asked by esure was commonly used on comparison websites, and that esure was entitled to 
ask it, to assess risk. She said esure had confirmed that not being in the UK at birth didnt 
affect the price of cover, just a consumers eligibility for it. She thought esures advisor was 
trying to be helpful in signposting Mr V to the Home Office. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision along the following lines:
I said I didnt think the advisor who spoke to Mr V had handled the call well  and it seemed 
he didnt keep strictly to esures standard script. I said the question in the script, according to 
esure, was  How long have you been resident in the UK? But the advisor asked Mr V if hed 
been resident in the UK since birth. That made Mr V suspicious about the reason behind the 
question. I thought it was akin to asking, Were you born here?  
I noted that the advisor then asked about the length of Mr Vs residency and required the 
exact date he became a UK resident, and that later said hed accept an informed guess 
about the month and year. I said Mr V had lived here for so long he couldnt hazard a guess, 
and that according to the information esure had provided recently about its residency 
requirement, there was no reason for the advisor to be so specific. esure had provided 
evidence to us to show that it only requires consumers to have been resident here for a short 
time. Mr V had already told the advisor that hed held a UK driving licence for more than 15 
years  and that he had nine years current, UK-earned, no claims discount. I think that 
information showed hed been resident in the UK for far longer than esure required.
I said I didnt think it was helpful for the advisor to say Mr V should check his residency 
paperwork or contact the Home Office. I thought the suggestions came from the advisor 
rather than from esures guidance or script. And although he may have been trying to be 
helpful, I didnt think he was sensitive to the reaction his comments might provoke in 
someone who wasnt born in the UK. 
I noted that Mr V made it clear during the call that he thought he was being treated less 
favourably than others. He said the advisor was turning it into a race issue. I said I 
thought Mr V based that partly on his belief that the advisor had asked him where he was 
born. I noted that Mr V was mistaken (as the question the advisor asked was limited to 
whether he was born in the UK). But I thought that question, plus the reference to the Home 
Office, were always likely to have an impact on a consumer who was born abroad.
I said I thought the advisor seemed unconcerned that Mr V wasnt happy. And when Mr V 
asked to speak to a senior person, the advisor just said hed get call from the complaints 
team in four working days. I said I could see why Mr V was so unhappy with that.
I pointed out that we cant instruct an insurer what questions it should ask, but I said I didnt  
think a question about whether a consumer was born in the UK was relevant to their 
experience of driving here. I said it seemed esure doesnt require advisors to ask that 
specific question, and the fact that the advisor did so led Mr V to suspect that esure wanted 
the information for unlawful, discriminatory reasons. I said I could see why he reached that 
conclusion - although I didnt think he was right to assume that esure wanted to charge 
consumers not born in the UK more for insurance, as there was no evidence of that.
I said I thought it was reasonable to ask a residency question if an insurer was trying to 
establish whether a consumer had any driving experience on UK roads  and that most 
insurers did so. I noted that Mr V had said hed have had no objection to a reasonable 
question  and that hed answered such questions when buying insurance before. Mr V also 
thought a question about how many years a consumer had held a UK driving licence should 
provide all the information esure said it needed. I said that question may have been sufficient 
in his case, as hed lived continuously in the UK for a long time. But it might not work in all 
circumstances, as if a consumer had held a UK licence for years - but had lived outside the 
UK for most of that time - they may have little experience of UK roads.  
I said the law that applied was the Equality Act 2010. National origin is a protected 
characteristic under the Act, but we arent able to say whether an insurer has broken the law 
- only a court can do that. So we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I said I thought Mr V got poor service from the advisor, but I didnt think hed shown that it 
was due to his national origin. I thought the residency question in esures script was 
reasonable, and it was asked of all consumers. I said other insurers also ask for residency 
details. I noted that Mr V doesnt recall being asked the question before by esure, but as the 
residency question is in its script, I thought it may have been asked in a different way.
 
I pointed out that Mr V was upset by what the advisor said and by his attitude. He was then 
inconvenienced by having to find quotes elsewhere when he may otherwise have settled for 
esures quote. I said I thought esure had failed to appreciate the effect the conversation with 
the advisor had on Mr V  and that it should have been handled better  so it would be fair 
and reasonable for esure to pay Mr V £100 for distress and inconvenience.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings.
esure said the most common residency question across the industry is How long 
have you continuously lived in the UK? and the first option provided is to tick Since birth. It said Mr V wasnt unhappy about being asked if he was resident here from 
birth, but about being asked for a precise residency date. esure said it wasnt enough 
to ask for driving licence details. It didnt think it was unreasonable to ask for a 
residency date or an educated guess about it. It said Mr V had been asked a 
residency question by it previously and had given esure a specific date then.
esure also said Mr V was vague about other issues during the call and in its opinion 
he was intent on being upset about one thing or another. It disagreed with my 
comment that asking a question about residency since birth reasonably led Mr V to 
suspect the information may be wanted for discriminatory purposes. esure thought 
the advisor had handled Mr Vs expectations about a call back to address his 
concerns satisfactorily. It didnt agree that he should be awarded compensation.
Mr V thought the sum Id proposed in compensation was derisory. He didnt think the 
points hed asked the investigator to ensure were addressed by an ombudsman had 
all been covered. He queried whether wed seen all the correspondence. He said 
esures advisor had created a consequential loss for him by restricting his ability to 
shop around for other insurance. Mr V also said the poor service wasnt only due to 
the advisor, as esures management had fully supported his approach.
Mr V noted that the question esure had told me was in the script was different to the 
one it had emailed to him previously. He also asked if Id have thought it fair if esure 
asked all consumers if they were white. He wanted to know on what Id based my 
comment that esure only required a short period of residency - and he said if that 
was the case, why the question asked didnt reflect the relevant requirement.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr V that we have all the correspondence we need from esure. And Ive 
covered the points he put to the investigator that I think are relevant to the complaint. I dont 
agree that the advisor restricted Mr Vs ability to shop around for other insurance. In my 
opinion, his actions had the opposite effect  Mr V had to look elsewhere for cover, as he 
couldnt get a quote from esure. And I appreciate that esure supported the advisors 
approach, otherwise it would have upheld Mr Vs complaint. Thats why Mr V complained to 
this service and asked us to review what happened. 
 
esure has confirmed that the extract it sent to Mr V about residency was from its website, as 
opposed to from its script, which is what was sent to me. But it said it doesnt require 
advisors to read the script verbatim anyway. It says it doesnt ask a question about a set 
number of years residency in sales calls as that relates to its underwriting criteria (which it 
provided to us). And to answer Mr Vs query, I dont think a question about what colour a 
consumer is (as opposed to a reasonable residency question) would be acceptable, even if 
all consumers were asked the question, as it would be entirely irrelevant.  
It isnt clear on what basis esure asserts that the most common question asked about 
residency is How long have you lived continuously in the UK?. Even if it is, I think the most 
important issue is what options are then available to choose. For example, the next box to 
tick after Since birth? might be More than x years? Without doubt, a number of insurers 
simply ask whether consumers have been resident in the UK for a certain number of years. I 
think its quite possible to do that without revealing confidential underwriting criteria.
 
In my opinion that sort of question isnt likely to lead anyone to wonder whether esure may 
be trying to identify those who werent born here. As I said in my provisional view, I think a residency question is reasonable, and we cant dictate what question to ask. Mr V asked if 
wed be contacting the FCA about the issue, but its for him to decide if he wants to do that.
I disagree with esure that Mr V was happy to be asked if he was resident here from birth. 
When he complained to esure about the sales call, he said he thought the question was 
asked so esure could charge more to people not born here. I agree that he was frustrated 
with the sales advisors insistence about the precise length of his residency. But Mr V 
already suspected that there was an underlying reason for the question about residency 
from birth and was troubled and upset by the implications of it. I dont think its surprising that 
- if the explanation for that question is that its to assess a consumers experience of UK 
roads and the Highway Code - from birth - its credibility is likely to be challenged. 
Having listened to numerous calls in which consumers have become angry or distressed and 
having heard most advisors deal with those situations well, I still think the advisor in this 
case didnt do so. In my opinion he showed no empathy with someone who was genuinely 
convinced that he was being treated less favourably due to not being born in the UK. I dont 
think it was good service for him to appear to be unconcerned about such a sensitive issue. 
esure seems to have assumed that I think the advisor should have been able to refer Mr V to 
a manager immediately, but that isnt the case. And it may be that  despite Mr V having 
been insured with esure before (when apparently, he gave it a precise date of residency)  
the advisor had no way of accessing that information. But I think if hed recognised Mr Vs 
concerns, appeared to take them seriously, and offered a call back to discuss them at some 
point, it may have gone some way towards diffusing the situation. Instead, the service he 
provided meant Mr V became increasingly upset during the call. 
After considering all the comments from esure and from Mr V, I still dont think Mr V has 
shown that he was treated less favourably on the basis of his national origin. But I 
understand why he believed that was the case - and he had to look elsewhere for insurance, 
when that may have been avoidable. In my opinion, it would be fair and reasonable for esure 
to pay him £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr V £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service I must ask Mr V to accept or reject my 
decision before 20 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman