DRN-3561568
The complaint
Mr A complained because Metro Bank PLC:
- refused to refund him for transactions he said he didnt authorise, and 
- it then closed his account.
What happened
On the morning or 1 April 2021, Mr A went to a cash machine. He said that he put his card 
into the machine, but the buttons on the machine werent working, and he didnt get either 
his cash or his card. Mr A said someone then approached him with an instruction about what 
to do, but Mr A shouted at him to go away, because he didnt feel safe with him getting too 
close. 
Mr A rang Metro. He said he hadnt received his cash, and his card had been retained by the 
machine. Mr A also said that while he was on the phone to Metro, he had an alert about two 
transactions, one for £572.47 and another for £529.39. Mr A said he hadnt authorised these, 
which with the disputed cash withdrawal totalled £1401.86. Mr A also went to a branch to 
report his complaint. 
On 19 April, Metro declined Mr As dispute, saying the full amount of cash had been 
dispensed. Mr A didnt agree. Metros final response letter said that it had contacted the 
machine owner, which had said that the full amount of cash had been dispensed and Mr As 
card had been returned. Metro explained that it had also declined Mr As claim that the other 
two transactions had been fraudulent, because the PIN had been used for them.  
Metro also told Mr A that it had decided to terminate its relationship with Mr A because hed 
submitted numerous fraud disputes over the last 6 months. It sent him a letter on 11 May 
confirming it was going to close his account, giving him 60 days notice. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She didnt think it was likely that the 
machine had been tampered with, or that the money had been dispensed after Mr A walked 
away. She thought Mr A had received the cash, and had also authorised the two later chip 
and PIN transactions for £572.47 and £529.39.
Mr A didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations about disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place on 1 April 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Metro) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen evidence that Mr As 
genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations go on to say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised 
the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them.
Who authorised the disputed transactions
The computer records from the cash machine owner show that the first disputed transaction, 
the £300 cash machine withdrawal, was started at 11:38 am on 11 April when the card was 
put into the machine and Mr As PIN was correctly entered. At 11:39 am, the card was 
dispensed and taken. Then the cash was immediately presented and taken. 
Immediately afterwards, the card was put in the machine again, and PIN entered, but this 
second attempted withdrawal was declined with the code for Limit exceeded.  The card 
was dispensed again, a second before 11:40 am.
So the electronic records show that there was no delay in the card or cash being dispensed. 
This means that the card and cash couldnt have been dispensed after Mr A had left, 
because Mr A told our investigator that hed waited for five minutes afterwards. Both the card 
and money were dispensed before that. And the electronic records also show that other 
customers successfully used the machine, with their own cards, immediately afterwards. 
Mr A suggested to our investigator that the cash machine had been tampered with, meaning 
cash and card were retained by the machine until a fraudster could retrieve them. I think this 
is unlikely, because the records show that other customers successfully used their cards to 
withdraw money successfully, within a few seconds. So there was no long gap when a 
fraudster could have retrieved any device and Mr As card and money. 
So I consider its more likely than not that Mr A carried out the £300 cash withdrawal 
successfully, and both his card and cash were dispensed.
Ive gone on to look at the other two disputed transactions, for £572.47 and £529.39.  The 
computer records show that these were completed using Mr As card, with its chip, and Mr 
As correct PIN was entered. The chip in a card cant be cloned, so the card used for these 
transactions was genuine. And there are 10,000 combinations of a four digit number. So its 
unlikely anyone who might have stolen Mr As card from him after he took the cash and card 
and left the cash machine, would have got this number right. 
I also dont think its likely that anyone looked over Mr As shoulder at his PIN when he was 
at the cash machine  because he told us he shouted at someone to go away when they 
came up to suggest how to deal with the difficult machine buttons. And anyone who might 
have managed to shoulder surf Mr As PIN as he entered it, would also have had to steal 
the card as Mr A left the cash machine. I think thats unlikely, especially when the next 
transaction took place only five minutes later.
Taking these factors into account, I find its most likely that Mr A carried out all three 
disputed transactions himself.
Account closureBanks are entitled to close a customers account  just as a customer is entitled to close 
their account. And they dont have to give a reason, though here, Metro did, saying in its 
letter of 11 May that it had done so due to receiving numerous fraud disputes over the last 6 
months.
I have checked whether Metro gave Mr A sufficient notice of the closure in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. In Metros letter of 11 May, it gave Mr A 60 days notice, 
and it wasnt required to give more.
So I find that Metro didnt act wrongly when it closed Mr As account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman