DRN-2671761
The complaint
Mr N complains of poor customer service and security concerns with NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
What happened
Mr N had been logged out of Aquas mobile phone application so he contacted them to 
update his mobile number on their records. Mr N was told that as he wanted to update his 
personal details that he would need to complete enhanced security. He was asked about 
transactions in the last 14 days but as Mr N usually used the online facilities with Aqua he 
wasnt able to pass the enhanced security.
Mr N told the call handler he wanted to pay off the balance and close his account as he was 
not satisfied with the call handler. The call handler explained that as he failed security, she 
would put him through to another operator at customer services as she was unable to 
continue the call. The call handler said another handler would be able to ask him different 
questions.
The call handler transferred Mr Ns call into the customer services automated queue. Mr N 
says he was waiting for approximately 15 minutes before he spoke with another call handler. 
Mr N told the new call handler that he wished to make a complaint about the previous call 
handler and wanted to make a payment to clear the balance and close the account. The call 
handler took a payment over the phone and informed Mr N of how the complaints procedure 
worked. The call handler raised Mr Ns complaint.
Aqua didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. They said they listened to the call Mr N had with the 
original call handler and Mr N. Aqua said the original call handler handled the call as they 
would expect, she was polite and professional and had gave him a high level of service. In 
regards to security, Aqua said that the correct security procedures were followed as Mr N 
hadnt passed the enhanced security. 
Mr N disagreed with Aquas findings so he brought his complaint to our service. He said that 
he thought the second call handler dealt with him appropriately. Mr N said that the second 
call handler did not ask enhanced security. He also wanted to know if his account had been 
fully closed.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. The investigator explained that enhanced 
security is needed when someone is updating personal details but as Mr N told the second 
operator he wanted to make a payment and close his account then thats why he wasnt 
asked enhanced security questions on the second call. The investigator explained that Mr 
Ns account was fully closed. Our investigator also explained to Mr N why the original call 
handler needed to transfer his call back into the automated queue as he had failed the  
security procedure.
Mr N said he was very disappointed in the investigators findings. He again raised security 
issues with Aqua and said his issue was the fact the original call handler didnt pass him to 
another department, she just put him back in the automated queue which wasnt acceptable 
customer service, so he wanted an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill address the security concerns Mr N has. Before I do so, I need to explain that its 
not the role of this service to say how a business should run their security processes, 
however, Ive looked to see if Aqua have followed their own security process and Im 
satisfied they have and that they treated Mr N fairly, even if he doesnt see it this way. Ill 
explain why below.
On the initial call Mr N wanted to update his mobile number on Aquas systems. Ive listened 
to this call and the call handler explains why she needs to ask him enhanced security 
questions  because hes wanting to make changes to his personal details. While I know this 
has frustrated Mr N, I dont think what Aqua asked Mr N was unreasonable. The call handler 
was following Aquas processes and its reasonable for a business to want to verify that they 
are talking to the right person when dealing with requests and accounts. Unfortunately, Mr N 
didnt answer these correctly and so Aqua couldnt proceed with that particular request. But 
that doesnt mean Aqua acted wrongly or unfairly here.
Mr N has said on the second call that the call handler he spoke to only asked him his name 
and address and didnt complete enhanced security with him. But, as our investigator 
explained to Mr N, this was because on the second call that he wanted to do something 
different on the second call as opposed to the first.
As Mr N told the second call handler he wanted to make a complaint about the first call 
handler, make a payment and close his account, then Aqua say enhanced security is not 
needed to do any of these things as they arent changing a customers details on the system. 
So Ive not seen any evidence that Aqua have made an error or not followed their own 
security process here.
Ive thought about what Mr N has said about the first call handler and how she didnt pass 
him to another department but just placed him back in the automated queue. He thought that 
this was poor customer service. Mr N said she was lazy and couldnt be bothered to take 
ownership of his call.
Ive listened to the call and the call handler does explain to Mr N that she cant continue the 
call as he hadnt passed the security questions and would be transferring him to another call 
handler in the customer services department. I can see why Mr N thinks this might be 
strange or unprofessional, but thats Aquas process and I dont think its led to Mr N being 
treated unfairly. If the original call handler had continued the call and updated Mr Ns mobile 
number then she wouldnt have followed Aquas security process. 
This is why she passed the call to another agent through the automated queue. So while Mr 
N wanted the original call handler to take ownership of the call, resolve the situation for him 
and not place him back in the automated queue, the call handler was unable to do this as Mr 
N had failed the enhanced security questions. 
Mr N has acknowledged that the second call handler he spoke to was lovely and dealt with 
(him) accordingly. So Im persuaded that he was transferred to the correct department, even 
it is was the same department as the original call handler. The second call handler was able 
to complete everything Mr N instructed her to do. Mr N was concerned his account hadnt been fully closed but the second call handler closed this and Aqua have confirmed his 
account is now showing as settled.
While I can understand why Mr N is frustrated that he had to wait approximately 15 minutes 
to speak to a new call handler and was placed in the automated queue again, Im not 
persuaded that theres much more that Aqua couldve done here for the reasons Ive already 
given. So it follows I wont be asking Aqua to do anything further.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman