DRN-3841497
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) failed to notify it 
about a chargeback. This left F unable to dispute the chargeback.
F is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr P.
What happened
Mr P says that in November 2021 a person posing as a customer of F was able to by-pass 
the chip and pin security on its payment terminal. And that this resulted in a chargeback of 
over £570.
Mr P says that F never received any notice of the chargeback. If it had, Mr P says he 
wouldve had access to high quality footage of the person accessing the payment terminal. 
Mr P is unhappy with the security of the terminal which he says is what allowed the fraudster 
to carry out the transaction. 
When Mr P first complained to this service, hed been in contact with another business I will 
refer to as P. But as this complaint relates to a chargeback, P said it didnt have access to 
the relevant information which would be held by First Data.
This service asked First Data to supply its business file but this wasnt received. As the 
investigator had limited information to consider he relied on the evidence provided by F and 
recommended that the complaint be upheld.
The investigator asked First Data to refund the amount of the disputed chargeback together 
with interest.
After First Data received the investigation outcome, it said that it had already refunded half 
the amount to F. Mr P has confirmed that F has received this partial refund.
As First Data hasnt provided any further information to consider, the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of how things work with First Data is that it partners with P as a merchant 
acquirer. This means that First Data acts as Fs banking partner, allowing it to accept credit 
and debit cards. And First Data deals with any chargebacks or disputes on behalf of F. 
Despite asking First Data several times we havent received any information about the 
chargeback process that it used. This makes it difficult to say that First Data gave F notice of 
the chargeback. 
I dont know what, if any, attempts First Data made to defend the chargeback on Fs behalf. 
It may be the case that even if First Data had notified F about the chargeback, First Data still 
couldnt have defended it. But without having further details from First Data, its difficult for 
me to assess this all properly, so I cant be sure that First Data treated F fairly.
First Data has recently told this service that it already refunded half the amount of the 
chargeback but hasnt explained why it did this. Considering the limited information we have 
and as First Data seems to think it had something to put right by giving the partial refund, I 
consider it reasonable to uphold Fs complaint.
I want to make it clear that my decision is about First Data, not P so I havent considered Fs 
concerns that its terminal wasnt properly secure. However, I can see P has since removed 
the manual facility from Fs terminal, so I hope the security problem wont happen in the 
future. If F accepts my decision, it will receive a refund of the balance of the amount of the 
chargeback. As F has been without the benefit of the money since the chargeback was 
raised, Ive also ordered First Data to pay interest on the refund. I hope this will bring 
everything to a close for F. 
Finally, although I can see that Mr P found the experience very stressful and damaging to his 
health, the complainant is limited company F which is its own legal entity. This means I cant 
consider the stress that Mr P has felt personally. I can only consider the impact that any 
mistake or unfairness may have had on F.
Putting things right
To put things right First Data Europe Limited should:
Refund F the remaining balance of the amount of the chargeback; and
Add simple interest of 8% a year, calculated from the date the chargeback was 
debited to the date of settlement, taking account of the partial refund already made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require First 
Data Europe Limited to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman