DRN-4436730
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt notify him that a third party 
would remain on his account when it changed from a childrens account. Hes also unhappy 
with the service received when trying to remove the third party.
What happened
Mr D opened an adapt account in 2010 when he was a minor, which required a responsible 
adult on the account to act as a third party. So, Mr Ds father was added as the third party.
In January 2023 Mr D became aware of a PIN reminder request that he didnt make and 
upon enquiry discovered his father was still a third party on his account. Concerned by this 
Mr D made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest explained that a third party remains on the account until the account holder 
requests for them to be removed. They acknowledged Mr Ds concerns with this and said 
they have provided internal feedback so they can review how it works when a child with a 
parent as third party reaches 18. Whilst they felt the correct process had been followed, they 
accepted it hadnt been a straightforward experience for Mr D in trying to get the third party 
removed and offered him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr D remained unhappy so referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
NatWest had done anything wrong in terms of the third party remaining on the account. But 
noted that when Mr D asked for the third party to be removed it wasnt handled very well. 
She felt the £250 offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision on 11 September 2023 which said: 
Having looked at NatWests processes I can see a third party on an account can be removed
at any time once requested by a customer. However, this wouldnt have necessarily been
clear to Mr D given that the account was opened when he was a child and he wasnt aware a
third party remained on the account.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions from the time of the account opening I can see
they say:
Adapt Account  You should review the Conditions that apply to your account with a
parent or guardian. Adapt Accounts are only available to individuals aged 11 years to 18
years. When you reach 18 years we may change your account to a Step Account or a
Current Plus Account or a Student Account or another account. We will notify you
personally at least 30 days before we do this at which time we will provide you with up to
date copies of Personal and Private Banking  Terms and Conditions and Personal and
Private Banking  A Guide to Fees and Interest.
It doesnt specify any other changes such as removal of third party which supports
NatWests point that it isnt something that changes as part of the account change process.
There are circumstances where it may be appropriate to retain a third party on the account
during account changes so I can understand why this may remain until the account holder
requests removal.
However, in this case it is an important piece of information as a third party isnt a
requirement of a general current account. So, I think Mr D should have been made aware so
he could make an informed decision if he wanted his father to remain as third party.
Especially as his father as third party couldve carried out transactions without Mr Ds
authorisation.
From what I can see NatWest have followed their process in leaving the third party attached
to the account. It isnt my role to tell NatWest to change its process. However, given that the
account was moving from one that required a third party to one that didnt I think they should
have at least made Mr D aware of the new account set up, so he was aware there was a
third party still attached to his account.
I understand that when Mr D discovered his father was a third party on his account for a long
period of time without his knowledge it has caused him distress. He feels it is a breach of his
personal privacy and the knowledge that his father had access to his financial information
has added to this and exacerbated his existing health concerns. Whilst Mr Ds father was
attached to the account this wasnt something Mr D was aware of until January this year. He
then removed his father from the account in February 2023. I recognise this has had an
impact on Mr D but Im not aware of any concerns around Mr Ds fathers conduct throughout
the years he was attached to the account that would suggest NatWest should have done
more during that time.
NatWest have accepted their service fell short of expectations when Mr D sought their
assistance in removing his father from the account, they offered £250 for the distress and
inconvenience caused. Theyve taken on board Mr Ds points and are looking to review the
way they communicate third party links when changing from a child to adult account in the
future.
Mr D doesnt think this fairly compensates him for the distress caused in relation to his father
having had access to his account over the years. Its clear this has had really impacted Mr D
and I dont doubt will continue to do so given what hes told us. However, I think the £250 
NatWest has already offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it adequately
compensates for the distress and inconvenience caused when Mr D became aware of the
issue and for the inconvenience caused when he was trying to remove his father from the
account. I understand the instructions NatWest provided to remove his father didnt work
initially and he ended up having to go to branch to submit the request, but once this was
done the third party was removed in line with his instruction. This coupled with their proactive
review of their process and as it doesnt appear that anything untoward happened during the
years his father had access to his account, I consider it to be a fair and reasonable
resolution to the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest didnt have any further comments or representations. Mr D has provided some 
comments in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused. Specifically in relation to his 
fathers access to his account, which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling regarding his complaint. Id like to reassure him that 
whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less detail and in 
my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Im satisfied Ive captured 
the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail he would like, in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr D has expanded on the impact this experience has had on him. Hes told me that 
knowing his father had access to his account and couldve seen his statements and 
transactions has caused significant distress, especially in light of the family situation. 
Whilst I dont underestimate this, when I said in my provisional decision that I couldnt see 
anything untoward had happened, I meant that I wasnt aware of any financial impact 
whereby Mr Ds father had utilised his funds. I take Mr Ds point that his father even just 
having sight of his account has caused him distress, we dont know for sure that Mr Ds 
father accessed the account during that time. And even if we could see he had, theres 
nothing to suggest this had an impact on Mr D. I say this because Mr D doesnt know that it 
happened, he only became aware that his father was even on the account in January 2023. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr D is distressed over the thoughts of what couldve happened. Hes 
told me that without proof that his father didnt access his accounts, hes going to think the 
worst and I can understand that. But my role is to ensure NatWest put things right based on 
what actually happened and the impact that caused, not what couldve happened.
Taking into account what did happen, based on the evidence available, Im satisfied 
NatWests offer to pay compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr D has said that NatWests actions in reviewing the process shouldnt have any bearing on 
his case or devolve any responsibility. And I agree. Whilst NatWests decision to reconsider 
their process around third party links to childrens accounts is a positive step for customers, 
they still have to take responsibility for what went wrong for Mr D. And as Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied theyve done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr D £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman