DRN-4036463
The complaint
Ms D complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly closed her credit card account. 
What happened
Ms D held a credit card account with Lloyds for some years. Around November 2020, Lloyds 
considered the account to be in persistent debt. Over the next couple of years, they sent 
correspondence to Ms D saying she needed to increase her monthly payments otherwise 
further action would be taken.
As the monthly payments werent increased, Lloyds closed the account around August 2022. 
Ms D complained. She said she had been a loyal customer who had paid the minimum 
amount each month and she wasnt made aware the account would be closed. To put things 
right, she wanted the account to be reinstated and for the interest to be waived. 
Lloyds said they had identified Ms Ds account as being in persistent debt as defined by the 
rules of the financial regulator and they sent letters confirming the same. They asked that 
she pay more than the minimum payment but as that hadnt happened, they closed the 
account. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator said 
Lloyds had fairly applied the rules related to those in persistent debt and their letters made it 
clear the account would be closed should Ms D not increase the payments.
Ms D disagreed. She maintained her stance. She also commented she had changed 
address  so she hadnt received Lloyds letters. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2018, the financial regulator (The Financial Conduct Authority) issued rules for financial 
businesses to follow where a customer is in persistent debt. The rules say persistent debt is 
when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve repaid towards 
the capital they owe over the previous 18 months. I must stress the purpose of these rules 
was to ensure consumers (especially those in financial difficulty) pay less in interest overall 
and lower their overall indebtedness. 
As a result, businesses were required to assess whether a customer falls within this 
definition at least once a month. The rules also say where persistent debt continues to apply, 
they should write to the consumer at 18, 27 and 36 months. 
Having carefully reviewed Ms Ds statements, the amount she was paying and the interest 
charged, I find Lloyds correctly identified her account as being in persistent debt. In line with 
the above rules, they sent their first persistent debt letter around November 2020 (18 month 
stage). Ive read the contents of the letter Ms D wouldve received. Having done so, Im 
satisfied it made it clear they considered the account to be in persistent debt. It explained by 
increasing the monthly payments the balance would clear sooner meaning less interest paid. 
It said Lloyds would be in contact in nine months time to see how things were going but if 
after 18 months it remained in persistent debt, they may stop the card or lower the credit 
limit. Lastly, the letter said there would be more reminders and suggestions to help. 
Based on the evidence presented to me, I can see that happened. Lloyds sent a number of 
further letters about the account being in persistent debt in September 2021, April 2022, 
June 2022, July 2022 and August 2022. Similar to the initial letter, Im satisfied Lloyds was 
clear about what Ms D needed to do. On each occasion, it reiterated if the payments werent 
increased, they may close the account. On that basis, I cant say Lloyds didnt outline the 
potential consequences to Ms D should she not take the relevant action. The letters also 
invited her to contact them to discuss how much she would need to pay to get the account 
back on track. However there is insufficient evidence she did so. I can see the last letter sent 
in August 2022 confirmed she could no longer spend on the card.
I note Ms Ds comments that she hadnt received these letters as she had moved address. 
Its unclear when exactly she moved but from my understanding it was a couple of years 
ago. However Lloyds system records show they were notified of a change of address in 
November 2022 which was after the account was suspended. If Ms D had moved earlier, I 
find it was her responsibility to let Lloyds know her up to date contact details. I cant say 
Lloyds did anything wrong by sending the persistent debt letters to the address they held for 
her at the time. 
Moreover, from around July 2022 I can see the monthly statements, which were made 
available online and via the app, not only outlined the minimum payment (approximately £40 
to £50) but they also provided a recommended payment amount (around £70). The 
statements explained what this meant and if paid each month over approximately 40 
months, the balance would be cleared. So in addition to the above letters, I find the 
statements also made it clear the account was in persistent debt and provided reminders for 
Ms D to take action.
Having reviewed Ms Ds payment history, although I accept she paid a little over the 
minimum amount (usually around one or two pounds more), its evident this was a lot less 
than the recommended payment amount as suggested by Lloyds. So I can understand why 
they continued to identify the account as being in persistent debt. 
Its unclear whether Ms D couldnt pay more because she couldnt afford to do so or there 
was any other reason. Therefore Ive also thought about whether Lloyds was told by Ms D or 
ought to have known she may have been struggling financially and needed support. 
However based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded there was enough evidence to 
indicate she was struggling financially. I also note when Ms D complained to Lloyds, she told 
them she wasnt experiencing financial difficulty and she was up to date with her bills.
As Ms D didnt increase her monthly payments enough to take the account out from being in 
persistent debt, I find Lloyds took a fair course of action by stopping use of the card. This was in line with what they said they may need to do and the terms allows them to do so. I 
cant say they did anything wrong. Lloyds sent a further letter confirming the same and said 
the account may close once the balance was cleared by Ms D but in the meantime, the 
interest rate will be lowered. I find this was another fair measure by Lloyds to reduce the 
amount Ms D owes. 
In summary, Im satisfied Lloyds correctly applied the relevant rules applicable to accounts in 
persistent debt. They acted fairly by sending letters and statements to Ms D about it and the 
action she needed to take. As this wasnt followed by Ms D, I find they acted reasonably by 
making the decision to stop Ms Ds use of the card and they are entitled to say she needs to 
repay the outstanding balance. 
I appreciate Ms D will be disappointed by my outcome but I hope she accepts my reasons 
for doing so. If she hasnt done so already, I strongly encourage her to work with Lloyds to 
determine how much she can afford to pay each month in order to clear the balance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman