DRN-2575651
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr W. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Mr W was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr W has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr W says he doesnt remember there being any mention of PPI. But this did happen almost 
20 years ago, and so it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt remember every detail. Ive looked 
at a copy of Mr Ws form and this does set out the PPI as a choice, and Mr W signed for it in 
the relevant a box. 
Overall, without stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that AXA did something 
wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Ws 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr W to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Mr W clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mr W. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mr Ws circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. I say 
this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. Also its not clear he had many alternative means to pay his living expenses and credit 
account for long, if he lost his income; and even if he did, he could have kept that in reserve 
for longer. Also it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, 
and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mr W 
took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman