DRN-2215157
The complaint
Mr G believes Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr G took out a £2,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 24 months with 
repayments of £212.94 a month.
Mr G has complained that Everyday didnt act responsibly when approving the loan, and that 
it wasnt affordable when all of his circumstances were taken into consideration. This has led 
to him experiencing financial difficulties and being unable to repay the loan.
Our investigator initially thought the loan wasnt affordable when Mr G applied for it and that 
Everyday hadnt done proportionate checks before approving the loan. This was because Mr 
G had said he was a full-time student on a zero hours contract. The investigator didnt think 
Everyday had taken adequate steps to verify Mr Gs income and employment. And, because 
of the zero-hours contract, she didnt think loan repayments wouldve been sustainable. 
So the investigator recommended Everyday refund Mr G any payments hed made, less the 
amount hed originally borrowed, plus interest.
But Everyday didnt agree with the investigator. They felt theyd fully considered all of Mr Gs 
circumstances when approving the loan and that the loan was affordable. And they provided 
call recordings of when they questioned Mr G about his income and student status, and for 
when they independently verified Mr Gs employment.
Based on this additional evidence, the investigator changed her view. She thought Everyday 
had done proportionate checks before approving the loan. So she didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Everyday have provided the documents they checked at the time they approved Mr Gs loan. 
They did a credit check which confirmed Mr G had a credit card with a £595 outstanding 
balance, a £20 a month loan with his mobile phone provider and had £159 outstanding with 
a mail order company. He had no other regular outgoings, and the payments on all of his 
current lending had been made. The electoral role also confirmed that Mr G lived at home 
with his parents.
Everyday also checked Mr Gs bank statements for the period 3 April 2017 to 17 May 2017. 
These showed 2-weekly salary payments of £500.71, £638.19 and £495.85. Based on this, 
Everyday calculated Mr Gs income to be £1,227.59 a month. I appreciate there are many 
ways of calculating an average monthly income. And Everyday have supplied the formula 
they used to do their calculation. But Ive calculated Mr Gs income to be £1,180.26 a month. 
While this differs from Everydays calculation by £47.33 a month, I dont think Everydays 
calculation is so unreasonable that it cant be relied upon.
The bank statements also show Mr G was generally operating his account within his 
overdraft limit. And they show payments to his credit card, the mail order company and to 
the loan with the mobile phone provider. Everyday considered all of these as regular 
outgoings. The bank statements also showed two credits from the Student Loan Company.
Everyday called Mr G about the student loans, and Ive listened to this call. In the call Mr G 
explained he did two days a week at university, had another year left on his course, and that 
he worked full-time as well. Mr G also confirmed he wouldnt need to start repaying his 
student loans until he earned over £22,000 a year. At no point during this call did Mr G make 
Everyday aware he was actually a full-time student and employed on a zero hours contract.
Despite Mr G saying he didnt need to repay the student loans until his income reached a 
certain threshold  and the income showing on his bank statements showing he hadnt 
reached that threshold  Everyday still calculated the student loan payments and included 
these within Mr Gs regular outgoings.
Mr G has also said that, despite him telling Everyday that he wanted to use the loan for 
consolidation and general expenses, they put the reason for the loan down as a motorbike 
purchase. The recordings of the original conversation Mr G had with Everyday arent 
available, so I cant confirm what was said. But I have seen that, in their calculations, 
Everyday have taken into consideration that Mr G was consolidating the loan with his mobile 
phone provider. So Im satisfied that the loan was, in part, for consolidation.
Everyday calculated that, after paying all of his regular outgoings (including his mobile phone 
and student loans), paying their loan payment; and allowing £575 a month for living 
expenses, and for the consolidation of the loan, Mr G would have £338.25 disposable 
income each month. So they determined the loan was affordable. 
Even allowing for the lower income figure Ive calculated; Mr G would still have had £290.92 
disposable income each month  around 25% of his net monthly wage. Given all of this, Ive 
seen nothing to show me that this loan wasnt affordable at the time Mr G took it out. Ive seen a copy of Everydays system notes. These show that, on 18 May 2017, they 
independently verified the phone number of Mr Gs place of employment from an internet 
search. The copy of this search theyve provided matches with Mr Gs declared place of 
employment. Everyday have provided a copy of the call to this verified number. The person 
they spoke to identified themselves as an assistant manager and confirmed Mr G was an 
employee. At no point during this call were Everyday made aware that Mr G was on a zero 
hours contract.
Because of all of this, Im satisfied the checks Everyday did when approving Mr Gs loan 
were reasonable and proportionate.
Mr G has since provided a letter from his university, which confirms he was a full-time 
student at the time he applied for the loan. But this letter contradicts the information Mr G 
told Everyday when they called him about his student status  Mr G had clearly said he was 
a part-time student and a full-time employee. And the letter from the university is dated 15 
March 2019, so it couldnt have been available to Everyday at the time of the application. 
I appreciate that Mr G believes the evidence hes provided shows Everyday shouldnt have 
lent him any money. But Everyday made their decision based on the information available to 
them at the time. And I cant say Everyday did anything wrong by not taking into 
consideration something they were unaware of at the time they made their original decision. 
And I dont think the discrepancies Mr G has said exist in the reason for the loan, or the 
amount he originally asked for, make a fundamental difference. Everyday did proportionate 
checks which showed Mr G could afford a £2,000 loan at the time he applied for it. 
Regardless of what he intended on using the money for. So I wont be asking Everyday to 
refund any payments, charges or interest.
But Mr G is in financial difficulties and struggling to repay the loan. So Id expect Everyday to 
deal with these circumstances fairly and sympathetically, and look to arrange a payment 
plan thats affordable for Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman