DRN-4433299
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) handled 
things when he entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with it to buy a device. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, Mr L entered into a fixed sum loan agreement 
with VMMF to pay for a device (mobile phone) for his son in October 2022. The device cost 
£1,332 and was to be paid back with £37 repayments for three years. Mr L says as part of 
the deal, VMMF offered to extinguish a previous fixed sum loan agreement. This previous 
agreement was taken out in July 2020 for two devices (mobile phone and ear buds) totalling 
£1,476 with £41 repayments for three years. I understand the old phone was faulty, which is 
why Mr Ls son needed a new one. Mr L says there were some issues with the order paid for 
under the 2nd agreement in relation to the devices colour and storage, but he came to an 
agreement with VMMF, and his son kept the device. 
Mr L says a few months later he noticed VMMF was still taking the £41 repayments for the 
old agreement. He was surprised and contacted VMMF to complain. VMMF said it had no 
noted confirmation of what Mr L was claiming. It said it didnt retain the relevant call as it took 
place over six months previous. But it offered to refund the final two repayments due 
totalling £82.
Unhappy with the response, Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said 
she couldnt see what went wrong with regards to the model that was ordered. She noted 
VMMF had applied a £4 discount to the associated airtime agreement and said Mr L 
accepted the 2nd device so thought that part of the complaint was resolved. 
She said with regards to the complaint about the cancellation of the first agreement there 
was little to go on. She said the repayments continued for about seven months after the 
upgrade and shed have expected the complaint raised sooner if Mr L thought the agreement 
had been cancelled. She thought the £82 offer from VMMF, which it agreed to reinstate even 
though the final two repayments had been made, was broadly fair. 
Mr L responded and didnt agree with the assessment. He clarified what happened with the 
upgraded device and said the £4 discount was essentially an apology for VMMF ordering the 
wrong phone. Mr Ls son didnt want to return the phone he was sent because he needed it 
for work. The phone hed actually ordered was a different colour and with a higher storage. 
But he accepted the discount for the phone that he received. 
Mr L said he only agreed for VMMF to contact his son about the upgrade on the 
understanding the original agreement would be cancelled as part of the upgrade. He said if it 
wasnt, he wouldnt have given permission for the upgrade. He says he recalls several 
conversations which were clear, and he had no reason to doubt the original agreement 
would be cancelled. 
Mr L said he continued to pay for the first agreement while he was trying to ascertain why he 
was paying something he didnt think he owed. But that this was stressful. Mr L said hed 
been a customer of VMMF for a long time. He has several accounts with it, and he raised the 
complaint as soon as he noticed the error. He also said he didnt receive any bills and if he 
did it would have come to light sooner. 
Moreover, Mr L said the overall price was the key factor for him (and his son). Mr L and his 
son had another option to repair the original phone and that Mr L was induced into the 
second agreement. He would not have bought the recent device if the old agreement wasnt 
due to be cancelled. 
As things couldnt be resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr L and VMMF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr L bought both devices using regulated fixed sum loan agreements and our service can 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. But I dont have the power to 
consider what happened in relation to the airtime agreements.
Ive listened to what Mr L said about the sale of the second phone. He says the wrong phone 
was delivered, but in order to resolve things he accepted a £4 discount towards the 
associated airtime agreement. Seeing as though this was accepted, Im not going to go over 
everything again because its not required. 
The main thing in dispute is whether (or not) Mr L was misadvised prior to entering into the 
second agreement. Mr L is alleging VMMF induced him into the second agreement by 
misrepresentation. Hes said he was told the first agreement would be ended, but this didnt 
happen. 
On the one hand, Mr L has been consistent with his testimony. Hes said either he or his son 
were told over the course of various calls that the original agreement would be cancelled. He 
said his son couldnt increase his outgoings (his son was covering the repayments for the 
device) so would not have taken on a second repayment at the same time the first one 
remained active. And Mr L has offered an explanation for why he didnt notice two 
repayments being made straight away. 
But on the other hand, because the complaint wasnt raised straight away, the evidence that 
would be key is no longer available. Moreover, Mr L owed over £400 towards the original 
agreement when he took the upgrade. It seems unusual that VMMF agreed several times to 
write off such a large amount. I take Mr Ls point that he thought VMMF did this to keep him 
as a customer. But from experience in these matters, it does seem like a very unusual step 
for VMMF to have agreed to take considering the amount that was left owing. And given it 
would have been so unusual, Id have expected there to have been some sort of notes 
recorded by at least one of the agents. But theres nothing to indicate there was a special 
arrangement. Ill never know exactly what happened. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I 
need to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. While I know Mr L will be 
disappointed, I dont find Ive seen enough to determine, on balance, that VMMF agreed to 
pay off the original agreement. So I dont have the grounds to direct it to refund Mr L the 
repayments made since the upgrade. 
VMMF offered to refund the final two repayments that were due when it sent its final 
response letter. When Mr L made those two payments that offer couldnt be actioned. But 
our investigator asked VMMF if it would reinstate it by offering an £82 refund direct to Mr L. 
This has been accepted by VMMF as a way to resolve the complaint. I think this is fair of it in 
all the circumstances, and Ill leave it up to Mr L if he now wishes to accept the offer.  
My final decision
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited offered Mr L £82 to resolve the complaint and I think 
this is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited should pay Mr L £82. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman