DRN-3605513
The complaint
Ms G complains about investment advice she received from Executive Benefit Consultancy 
Limited (EBCL). She feels the investments she made as a result havent performed as well 
as they could have with more reasonable advice.
What happened
Ms G set out the key points of her complaint in a 22-page letter to EBCL, in November 2019. 
That letter covered her history with EBCL since April 2013.
A lot of the details of that relationship will be familiar to both sides. So while Ive read and 
considered those details, Im not going to repeat them at length here. In keeping with the 
informal nature of our service, Ill focus on whats steered my decision the most.
Ms Gs relationship with EBCL began in 2013, after shed inherited a significant amount of 
money. She met EBCL for advice about investing her money to get an income from it. 
To advise Ms G, EBCL considered what she was trying to achieve with the money, and how 
she would manage if her investments lost money. They identified her attitude to risk as 
balanced, between taking some risk to get a better return, and being careful not to lose too 
much of the money shed inherited.
Having completed that assessment, EBCL recommended some investments for Ms G. Two 
ISAs were set up  one in Ms Gs name and one in her husbands  to make use of the tax 
benefits they provided. Once the annual ISA allowance was used up, the rest of the money 
went into a collective investment account. All of the accounts invested in the same funds.
Ms G accepted all of EBCLs recommendations. The investments ran for a few years. But in 
2019 there were some problems. One of the funds Ms G was invested in was suspended, 
and then later wound up. And later that same year, another of Ms Gs funds was suspended.
Ms G felt EBCL were responsible for the financial loss she suffered as a result, for broadly 
the following reasons.
The investments EBCL recommended had put her money at too much risk.
EBCL hadnt done enough to monitor the investments and act before losses were 
incurred.
A recommendation EBCL made to put the investments temporarily in cash had 
meant the investments hadnt grown as much as they could have.
Ms G felt EBCL had misled her about the success of her investments.
EBCL responded to the complaint, setting out why they felt their service had been 
reasonable. They also noted Ms Gs feelings that theyd deliberately misled her, and decided 
to stop working for her. Ms G says it then took her a couple of months to move the 
management of the investment to a new adviser.
I provisionally made a decision about this complaint in June 2022. I found EBCLs 
recommendations in 2013 had been too risky for Ms G, given what theyd found out about 
her at the time. I felt that a reasonable level of risk would have seen her money invested in 
line with a lower risk index. So I explained how EBCL should remedy that  with a view to 
putting Ms G in the position she would have been in, if the service had been reasonable. 
I gave Ms G and EBCL the opportunity to consider that decision and comment on it, before I 
made my final decision. 
Ms G accepted the decision, but felt she doubted EBCL would properly carry out the remedy 
Id put forward. She also explained how it had taken until 11 March 2020 for her investment 
to be transferred to a new adviser, after EBCL had decided to stop working for her in 
January 2020. Ms G also said she still had £1,198 in one of the funds frozen in 2019, and 
wasnt keen for EBCL to take ownership of this. 
EBCL didnt accept the decision. They suggested an alternative to the remedy Id put 
forward. And they felt the period in cash in 2016 should be replicated in the remedy, saying 
this was something Ms G had requested at the time. 
Ive considered the comments from both sides, and looked again at the details our 
investigator gathered. And Im able now to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that my provisional decision is the right one for this complaint. So Im going to 
repeat it here for my final decision. But Ill add to it in places to show how the comments Ive 
received have been considered. 
Looking at the initial advice in 2013, I find EBCL took reasonable steps to assess Ms Gs 
objectives, and her attitude to risk. They spoke to her and thought about what she said, in 
line with what Id expect from a regulated adviser. They then recorded that in written 
documentation, and confirmed it with Ms G.
So I provisionally find the level of risk EBCL decided for Ms G  balanced between making 
enough money to provide her with an income while shielding her from significant losses  
was reasonable.
But then I note an issue with the funds EBCL recommended to Ms G in 2013. EBCL 
recommended five equity income funds. That meant almost all of Ms Gs money was used to 
buy shares in companies. That exposed Ms Gs investments to a couple of risk issues. 
Firstly, the value of company shares can change quickly, and by large amounts. And 
secondly, having five funds exposed to that same type of risk amplified its potential impact 
on Ms Gs money.
Now, I can appreciate these funds were in line with Ms Gs wish to generate an income from 
her investment. But the chance of quickly losing a lot of what shed put in doesnt seem to be 
given suitable weight. A mix of different asset classes would have been better, balancing out 
the need for the risks necessary to generate income with the need for lower risks to preserve 
capital.But looking at what EBCL recommended, I find that the overall risk caused by focussing so 
heavily on equities was unreasonably high in Ms Gs case.
Putting things right  Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation for that, my aim is to put Ms G as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.
Here, I find that Ms G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
she would have done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Ms G's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should EBCL do?
To compensate Ms G fairly, EBCL must:
Compare the performance of Ms G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
EBCL should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From To Additional 
interest
ISAs and 
collective 
investment 
accountSome 
liquid/ some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexThe date of 
investment:
19 August 
2013The date 
transferred 
to new 
adviser:
11 March 
20208% simple per 
year until 
settled (if not 
settled within 
28 days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Ive changed the To date from my provisional decision to reflect that Ms G says the transfer 
of the investment to a new adviser took place on 11 March 2020, not in January 2020. For 
clarity  and if theres any debate about what date should be used  my remedy is aiming for 
the date the money or holdings left EBCL and was sent to either Ms G or her new adviser. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ms Gs said part of the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the open 
market). So working out the actual value is difficult. In such a case the actual value should 
be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms G agrees to EBCL taking ownership of the 
relevant part of the portfolio, if they wish to. If its not possible for EBCL to take ownership, 
then they may request an undertaking from Ms G that she repays to EBCL any amount she 
may receive from the illiquid part of the portfolio in future.In response to Ms Gs comments, I can understand she doesnt want to have EBCL involved 
with her ongoing investment. But thats not what Im intending by having the ownership of the 
illiquid part of the portfolio pass to them. Its more like selling something that cant be sold 
more widely. EBCL are to compensate Ms G for the value of the illiquid investment, and in 
return they receive it. 
The alternative would be more of an ongoing connection. EBCL  having compensated 
Ms G for the value of the illiquid fund  would be entitled to contact Ms G whenever the fund 
is able to release money and call on her to pay it to them. 
Im not sure which option will work best for EBCL and Ms G. So Im going to leave this part 
of the remedy to them to work out. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Using a benchmark reflects that I cant say for sure what alternative investment EBCL should 
have recommended, or what Ms G would have agreed to. It represents broadly the sort of 
performance Ms G could have achieved, if shed invested in a range of asset classes  and 
so at a lower level of risk overall.
Any withdrawal from the ISAs and collective investment account should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if EBCL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
In response to my provisional decision, EBCL talked about taking an average value for the 
investment withdrawals and applying that to the remedy. Im not in favour of that for a couple 
of reasons. Firstly, it makes it harder for Ms G to check the remedy has been calculated 
reasonably. She wouldnt be able to simply compare the withdrawals being factored in to the 
remedy against the withdrawals she actually made. 
And secondly, this approach would unduly impact Ms G or EBCL if larger withdrawals were 
made at the end or start of the investment period. It may take some time to work out, but I 
find the fairest outcome here will be for EBCL to simply apply the withdrawals as they were 
actually made at the time.
Ive noted Ms Gs concern that EBCL will handle the specifics of the calculation in a way that 
favours them and not her. That will be something for Ms G and EBCL to take forward, 
possibly through the courts. My power extends to saying what should be done. Where my 
decision is accepted by a complainant, the financial service provider must then do what Ive 
directed. But to enforce my decision  and insist its carried out as Ive said  would require a 
complainant taking the matter to court. 
With that said, it should be possible for EBCL to show Ms G how theyve worked out their 
calculation of this remedy. Ms G can then review that  possibly with the help of a financial 
adviser  and raise any issue with EBCL directly. 
Getting back to the remedy for Ms Gs complaint, the broad approach here makes it 
unsuitable to try to reflect some of the decisions Ms G and EBCL made with her actual 
investment. Specifically, the transfer to cash in 2016, and the reinvestment into new funds in late 2016 and early 2017. The decisions made at the time were for something that was 
invested at a higher level of risk initially. Those wouldnt necessarily match the decisions 
made if the investment had held a lower level of risk.
So the index should simply be applied from the first day of the investment to the day Ms G 
transferred control over it to a new adviser.
EBCL have commented about Ms G wanting to transfer the investment to cash in 2016. But 
the records from the time tell a different story. In their file note from 3 May 2016  just before 
the transfer to cash  EBCLs adviser wrote:
I advised [Ms G and her husband] that we had concerns over the forthcoming 
months regarding the effect that a Brexit would have on markets. We believed there 
would be a period of heightened volatility and if the UK withdrew from Europe then 
this could lead to a major fall in equity markets I advised that it would be prudent to 
take a temporary measure and place this into cash [Ms G and her husband] 
thought that it was a good idea to move to cash.
This tells me it was EBCL  rather than Ms G  that drove the move to cash in 2016. And it 
tells me that move reflected concerns about the equity market. At the time, Ms Gs 
investment had been focussed on equities by the recommendations in 2013. 
But as Ive said, a more reasonable recommendation in 2013 would have seen the 
investment made in a range of asset classes. In that case, the concerns about the equity 
market in 2016 would have been different. So I find it likely the advice in 2016 would have 
been different too. So Ive decided not to try to replicate that advice in the remedy now. 
The index should be applied without replicating the move to cash in 2016, or the decisions 
made when reinvesting in late 2016 and early 2017. 
As Im not identifying a specific investment to have made with Ms Gs money, I cant say 
exactly what the fees would have been in this simulated alternative. In line with our general 
approach, I find itll be reasonable to simply treat the fees Ms G actually paid as being 
generally what would have been incurred if a more reasonable level of risk had been taken. 
Ive thought about simulating an emergency fund for some of Ms Gs money. The idea of 
this would be to ensure some of it was at no investment risk, and would always be available 
if needed. But I can see in the fact-find documents from 2013 that Ms G strongly agreed 
that she had enough money from other sources to cover her expenses for a 12-month 
period. And I can see that before approaching EBCL she seems to have taken steps to pay 
off her major debts using some of the money shed inherited.
That leads me to conclude the absence of an emergency fund in this case wasnt a particular 
issue. So Im not going to complicate the remedy by trying to simulate Ms G having one.
With this finding and remedy, the other points made by Ms G in her complaint somewhat fall 
away. Any finding I made about the reporting of the success of the investment, the 
monitoring of it, and the decision to temporarily transfer everything to cash wouldnt change 
the remedy Ive set out here. So  again in keeping with the informal nature of our service  
Im not going to go over the details of those specific parts of this complaint.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive provisionally chosen this method of compensation because:Ms G wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms G's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out in the table above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman