DRN-4321759
The complaint
Mrs M and Ms M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt credit their savings account with 
money paid in.
What happened
Mrs M says that she went into a branch on 8 November 2021 to pay in £300 in cheques and 
£330 in cash and arrange for large withdrawals later that week. When she went in on 12 
November 2021 to withdraw money she queried the missing deposit. But says she was told 
that this would soon show. As withdrawals are only made once a year she didnt notice until 
November 2022 this hadnt been credited and then raised this.
Lloyds said that no discrepancies had been found at the branch. And that if one had been at 
the time then the funds would have been credited to the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Due to the time that had 
passed some evidence was no longer available. But the branch journal for that day showed 
no record of transactions for this account at any of the tills. And the branch had checked the 
immediate deposit machine journal and there was no record of any card for the account 
been used that day either. The cheques were never cashed. Mrs M doesnt have a receipt 
for the deposit and says she was told that the printers werent working that day. And there 
was no CCTV available after 30 days. But the fact that there had been CCTV could be a 
deterrent to staff misconduct. She was persuaded Lloyds had acted fairly in not crediting the 
amount.
Mrs M and Ms M didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. This was a big 
impact for them, and they stand by what they say happened. They didnt expect the outcome 
to change noting the time that had passed but this was a matter of principle and about their 
integrity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Mrs M and Ms M have given an explanation of the way the account was used by them and 
others to save during the year. And then the money withdrawn in November each year.    
Mrs M is clear she would have gone into the branch on 8 November 2021 to make advance 
arrangements for the cash I can see was taken out on 12 November 2021. And that she 
would have credited this missing money then too and it seems to me planned to take this out 
with the other funds later in the week. She has told this service she isnt sure if this was paid 
in at the counter or using a deposit machine. She said she did raise this on 12 November 
2021 and was told that the money would be credited within a few days. And explained why 
there were remaining funds in the account that werent withdrawn at the time which covered 
the discrepancy. There was little other checking of the account until the time of the 
withdrawals. And thats why Mrs M and Ms M say this came to light again in November 
2022.
The cheques to be paid in - one of which I understand was from Mrs Ms own account  
werent cashed. And clearly the cash of £330 wasnt credited. Lloyds has investigated this 
and provided the evidence it now has to this service. This is no record of any deposit either 
at the tills or the deposit machine that day for this account. And there are no identified 
discrepancies. While I understand what Mrs M and Ms M say about not checking the 
account, they did seem to be reasonably aware in November 2021 that an amount hadnt 
been credited and there was the opportunity to see that the cheques hadnt been cashed. 
There has never been anything showing on the system at Lloyds so any reference by a 
member of staff to a balance showing in a few days could only have been made in general 
terms.
Im afraid that for all the reasons theyve given Mrs M and Ms M dont have anything to 
support their testimony. The fact that the cheques werent cashed does raise a question 
about whether these were presented. The evidence from Lloyds is that there was no cash 
deposit either. I need to balance all these factors in making my decision. Having done so I 
dont have sufficient to find it most likely that Lloyds made a mistake and so should credit 
their account with £330. I fully understand how disappointed Mrs M and Ms M will be by my 
assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman