DRN-3607374
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express didnt provide the service it should have after requesting identification 
documents to be sent.    
What happened
Mr W was contacted by AESEL to provide identification documents for his supplementary 
card holder. He provided documents but received an email saying the information was either 
invalid or unclear but no further details regarding the problem were provided. He says he 
resent the information but got the same response. He contacted AESEL and it wasnt able to 
tell him what was wrong. He then sent the information a third time and again received the 
same response. Given these issues Mr W raised a complaint.
AESEL said that periodically it will require information from card holders to check the 
information it holds is accurate. It said that while validating the information Mr W sent it found 
discrepancies. It said the proof of address provided wasnt considered valid proof. It provided 
a list of acceptable proof of address documents.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the information provided by AESEL 
about which documents could be accepted as proof of address and identity was adequate. 
He noted the statement Mr W provided was from an e-money provider and not a bank and 
so it didnt meet AESELs criteria.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the clarity of information needed to be 
considered from a customers point of view. He said the statement he provided was from an 
institution that presented itself as a bank (with account numbers and sort code). Mr W said 
that AESEL could have placed a statement saying it didnt accept e-money institutions which 
would have reduced the risk of any intercept of his data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL contacted Mr W to provide documents as part of its know your customer checks on 
his supplementary card holder. Mr W has said he didnt find this unreasonable and provided 
documents that he thought met the requirements. 
I have looked at the information provided, and I can see that AESEL set out a list of what 
documents can be used to provide proof of address and identity. In this case the issue was 
that Mr W provided a statement from an e-money provider. This wasnt acceptable proof for 
AESEL. While I appreciate Mr Ws comment about the institution he provided the statement 
from as this wasnt a bank statement (or document that met any of the other allowed 
documents for proof of address) I do not find it unreasonable that AESEL didnt accept it. I 
understand Mr Ws comments about him not realising this wouldnt be acceptable, but we 
wouldnt expect AESEL to necessarily list documents that wouldnt be accepted rather those 
that are acceptable. 
I understand why Mr W was frustrated that he wasnt provide with details of which document 
hadnt been accepted. AESEL hasnt been able to provide copies of the information it sent to 
Mr W in response to his document submission. It has provided template documents and I 
can see these dont detail which document wasnt accepted but instead provide the details of 
what is acceptable. While I appreciate Mr W sent the same information in on several 
occasions, as he had been informed of an issue with his submission, I cannot hold AESEL 
responsible for the time he spent doing this. 
I appreciate he felt he wasnt given clear information on the call and this is disappointing. 
However, I can also see that his complaint was raised, and a clear explanation was provided 
in the final response letter dated 12 May 2022. This was before any action was taken on the 
supplementary card. Therefore, on balance, as I do not find that I can say AESEL has done 
anything wrong in regard to the information gathering process, I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman