DRN-3864768
The complaint
As weve had this complaint for a while, Im going to maintain consistency by referring to the 
consumer as Mrs E although I know her circumstances have since changed.
Mrs E complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
David Stock & Co Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to the business as David Stock.
What happened
In March 2016, Mrs Es employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mrs Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mrs E was concerned about what the announcement by her employer meant for the security 
of her preserved benefits in the BSPS. She was unsure what to do and was referred to 
David Stock which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about her circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mrs E was 46 years old and married (although separated). She was described as 
being in good health and at the time. She had one dependent child.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Es BSPS was approximately 
£326,058. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mrs E had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions. This pension isnt the subject 
of any complaint.
Mrs Es salary upon the closing of the original BSPS had been around £34,000. She 
had around £12,000 in savings.
It seems David Stock had a number of advice sessions with Mrs E throughout the autumn of 
2017 until her pension was eventually transferred in 2018. The business set out its advice 
initially in a suitability report on 1 December 2017. There were discussions about the types 
of investments she might move her funds into. Ultimately, David Stock recommended that 
Mrs E transfer away to a personal pension and use a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to 
manage her funds and fund selection in the future. David Stock said this would allow Mrs E 
to achieve her objectives. Mrs E accepted this advice and so transferred out. In 2022 Mrs E 
complained to David Stock about its advice, saying she shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mrs E then referred her complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, David Stock said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mrs E had at the time. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of David Stock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, David Stock should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mrs Es best interests. I have also carefully considered the final response letter from David Stock. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mrs Es complaint. 
Financial viability 
David Stock referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mrs E was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
David Stock said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
BSPS, was 4.57% if Mrs E took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. Its not entirely clear 
to me if this was benchmarked against the BSPS or the new BSPS2. But I think the BSPS2 
critical yield would have been relatively close to the BSPS yield. 
I have noted that David Stock didnt calculate a critical yield rate for an earlier retirement, 
despite it mentioning an early retirement age of 55 for Mrs E. As this was mentioned, Ive 
taken this to mean that the concept of an early retirement was discussed with her. However, 
as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a long way off for Mrs E and so I very 
much doubt whether retiring early, which is what was recorded, was anything more than 
something she just aspired to rather than being part of a real plan. However, as Ill say more 
about below, David Stock seems to now place some weight on early retirement as being a 
legitimate factor in the overall recommendation to transfer to a personal pension. So, if the 
adviser thought this was a credible part of the transfer rationale, they should have clearly set 
out the critical yields relating to an early retirement at the time. 
I havent calculated what a critical yield for retiring at, say 55, would have been. But in my 
experience it would probably have been higher than the one mentioned above. So, I think 
the failure to provide critical yield rates for retirement ages of around 55 were significant 
failures. This type of information should have been shown to Mrs E as this would have given 
her a much clearer picture and better information with which she could make an informed 
decision.
In 2017 we were in a period of sustained low interest rates and bond yields. And I dont think 
that whatever critical yield figures one uses here, that there was any sound evidence that 
achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, 
was ever going to be achievable over a sustained period. I say this with the following in 
mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.4% per year for just over 18 years to retirement (age 65). If considering an early 
retirement, at the age of 55, the discount rate was only 3.5% (over 8 years to retirement). 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Ive seen there were 
quite similar growth assumptions from the fund provider which was being considered. For 
example, its low-end growth assumption was also 2% and the medium rate was 5%.
At the time, David Stock assessed Mrs Es attitude to risk (ATR) as moderate. However, I 
think Mrs E was a very inexperienced investor. Theres nothing at all showing she owned 
any shares at the time and theres some reliable documentary evidence that she never had. 
She also clearly didnt want to accept much investment risk. Although she held £12,000 in 
savings, it looks to me as if this was in a cash deposit account which I think helps 
demonstrate her general cautious approach to money. Ive therefore seen nothing showing 
that Mrs E had any investment experience at all to draw upon. So, when thinking about 
investing this amount of money, I dont think the adviser categorised Mrs Es ATR correctly. 
Overall, David Stocks assessment of her financial circumstances and wealth seems very 
weak indeed to me as when the recommendation to transfer came, very few references were 
made to her particular circumstances. In short, I think the advice was somewhat generic and 
not personalised enough.
Against this backdrop I think the ATR, if correctly applied, was more likely to be a low 
rating. Mrs E may well have answered some generic questions about risk on a pre-formatted 
form, but the advisers role was to interpret this together with Mrs Es real-life situation. I 
therefore think any reasonable risk assessment of Mrs E  a person with absolutely no 
investment experience or history and who was also going through some relationship 
changes at the time - should have been applied in a much more cautious manner.
These failures by David Stock still wouldnt have changed anything because even someone 
with a moderate ATR shouldnt have been advised to transfer away in these circumstances. 
However, with the above in mind, I dont think the adviser had enough information or 
evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial 
comparison basis. I say this because growth assumptions close to the regulators lower-end 
projections and also to the discount rate were most relevant here in my view. So, I think 
growth assumptions of around 2 -to- 4 % were realistic here. 
This was below the critical yield figure for retiring at 65, which was the only critical yield 
(other than for the PPF) that David Stock published. This was likely below a similar scenario 
if retiring at the age of 55. And because David Stock failed to show Mrs E these different 
critical yield rates in its analysis, there is certainly no clear evidence that by transferring 
away Mrs E would be financially better off. In fact, its very important to remember here that 
the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being 
recommended to Mrs E, would have further reduced the likely growth. Mrs E was being 
charged fees by David Stock  and there were fund and management charges yet to come 
from the recommended DFM. These were all additional and indeed significant costs that I 
think Mrs E would have found very difficult to work out. With a DB scheme she didnt have 
these costs. So, I think all this showed there would be a very real drag on future 
performance if she transferred. To even match the published critical yield rate as set out 
above, Mrs Es investments would need to exceed growth rates that were reasonable, given 
the economic conditions of the time and her true ATR. So overall, I think that achieving the 
stated and unstated critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. David 
Stock did not highlight these issues enough in the advice.In my view, there would be little point in irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme at 
the age of 46 to obtain lower  or even similar benefits  to that scheme. There would be still 
less reason to take that course of action after deducting the fees and charges as Ive 
described above as these clearly implied growth outside the DB scheme would probably be 
lower. So there was a very real risk of Mrs Es pension benefits being lower at retirement 
than they otherwise would be.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, David Stocks own transfer analysis said that even 
in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £429,613. These figures are 
found in David Stocks own analysis based on data the regulator required businesses to 
refer to at the time. To be clear, the sum above was to buy a much inferior pension. And 
because this was far above Mrs Es CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into 
the value of the guaranteed pension Mrs E could be giving up by transferring away to a 
personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, David Stock also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. David Stock said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and I dont think Mrs E would have wanted to 
transfer to this scheme. Again, there were no critical yields for retiring earlier (in the PPF) 
and I reiterate that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such 
as the one being recommended to Mrs E, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, David Stocks 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mrs E would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS2. 
Ive also considered some projections David Stock used to help show that if she transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mrs E well into her retirement. I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were based on past performance and they 
ran out at certain ages. Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What 
David Stock was showing Mrs E were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees 
and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to David Stock, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with her current 
scheme options alone. Rather, David Stock said Mrs E also had other reasons to transfer 
away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer 
was suitable for her, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Other reasons to transfer
David Stock recommended and transacted a transfer to a personal pension plan based on 
wider objectives, not just on financial comparison grounds. I have used all the documents we 
still have from the advice sessions to summarise the following themes as apparently 
supporting the recommendation to transfer away. 
However, I think the suitability report was a poor document. In my view, it lacked clarity; it 
was generic and not specific to Mrs E. And the overall transfer-away rationale just wasnt 
brought out in to the open in a clear way. This was the advisers opportunity to set out clearly 
what the options were and the rationale behind any recommendations that were being made. I should also make clear that it was David Stock that was the regulated party here and Mrs E 
was being substantially charged for its advice. So, the adviser wasnt just there to transact 
what Mrs E  an inexperienced amateur  thought might have been a good idea. The 
advisers role was to fully examine her situation and provide advice that was in the clients 
best interests.
Nevertheless, Ive drawn out the following themes as being significant in the overall 
recommendation for Mrs E to transfer to a personal pension arrangement.
There were discussions about retiring early. The report said her early retirement age 
was 55.
By transferring, she could have greater flexibility and control over her pension. 
The financial security of the DB scheme(s) on offer.
David Stock implied that transferring would ensure the full value of any fund could be 
inherited as a death benefit.
The transfer value was high.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mrs Es relatively young age by pension 
standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mrs E had no concrete plans whatsoever for 
her retirement yet. With over 18 years still left to when shed be actually contemplating 
retiring if using her NRA, theres simply no way that what she might possibly use the money 
for, or how much she thought she might need, should have been major influences in her 
deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk 
which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mrs E probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what she and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on her part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this given her age and the circumstances she was in at the 
time.
I also think David Stocks dealings with this issue are contradictory. To a degree, it is still 
defending the complaint on the grounds of greater flexibility, not least because of a desire to 
retire considerably earlier than the NRA. But 55 is very early to cease working and I think its 
fair to say that substantial planning, backed up by financial resources, is required. However, 
if 55 really was a retirement age being considered here, then the critical yields for that age 
should have been published and there ought to have been a clear pathway explaining how 
such an early retirement was possible. 
These things were not present in this case.
Flexibility 
I also cant see that Mrs E required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by David Stock. I therefore think this was no more 
than a standard objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a 
personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mrs E required changing how her retirement benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still 
so far away from retirement age. She already had a new and more flexible DC pension with 
the new TATA DC fund. This was being contributed towards by both Mrs E and her employer 
and still had up to 18 years left to run (over 8 years if she did eventually retire very early). 
So, this other pension would have afforded Mrs E any flexibility she might have needed in 
the years ahead.
As for the evidence / rationale of transferring at all, I think the suitability report was very 
unclear. It even said at one point that our reaction is to generally dissuade people from 
transferring. I take this to mean that the adviser themselves had some reservations  but 
they went on, nonetheless, to recommend that Mrs E ought to transfer to a specific product 
overseen by a DFM. 
However, Ive seen nothing explaining why Mrs E wouldnt want to continue membership of a 
DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mrs E could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand shed have an existing deferred DB scheme of 
considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant 
indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by 
the PPF. On the other hand, shed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long 
period of time  up to 18 years. So, if Mrs E ever found she needed any flexibility, then shed 
be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mrs E had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over her funds. With her DB scheme, Mrs E was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for her by trustees. 
Mrs E herself had no experience of these types of money market investments. I accept that 
she may have had a basic understanding of pensions and she also had her new DC pension 
with TATA. But Ive seen nothing showing the investment strategy for this pension was 
anything other than an off the shelf mix of investments commonly found in most company 
DC schemes. So, I think she would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of 
managing over £326,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. 
What Ive seen tends to show Mrs E would have required ongoing financial advice and 
support, all of which would cost her money which her DB scheme didnt require from her.
David Stock itself set out the estimated pension shed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income in retirement of £19,203 per year. Of course, Ive already 
explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a 
relatively young age by pension standards. But there was certainly no analysis showing this 
wouldnt have met her needs by the time she had reached retirement.
In my view, this was another significant failure by the adviser because they were advising 
Mrs E to transfer without first determining if it was even necessary.
Mrs E might have even speculated that she might need a certain amount of annual pension 
when she retired, cited in todays money. However, in my view this could only ever be 
guesswork because retirement was still years away for Mrs E. She had a school age child 
and she was quite obviously embarking on a new direction in life. Its fair to say she would 
have faced normal household debts and bills in the years ahead. Mrs E, in my view, 
probably still had career aspirations which were important to her in the coming years. I therefore think Mrs Es circumstances here were much more aligned to her transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when she felt she was ready to do so and her plans were much 
clearer. All the evidence pointed to her being able to build a pathway in the years ahead to 
retiring earlier than 65 if she felt she really needed to. There would have been an actuarial 
reduction involved, depending on her age at the time. And because Mrs E had another 
pension too, there was the capacity for her to increase contributions to this new DC scheme. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mrs E died. Mrs E was still legally married although 
separated. The adviser didnt really record enough details about this situation and what her 
plans were. But I think this area was important.
I think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses 
pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to a future spouse if Mrs E had 
gone onto divorce and then marry again. I accept that predicting this is uncertain  perhaps 
even for Mrs E at the time  but the issue here is that the adviser failed to properly assess 
this situation. At the age of only 46, Id say it was entirely reasonable to say that Mrs E could 
re-marry in the future. And this would then make a spouses pension highly relevant again if 
she predeceased her husband. In any event, there were still some child-related death 
benefits which I think would have been of use to Mrs Es child if something unexpected had 
happened. I dont think David Stock made the value of this benefit clear enough. These 
death benefits were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I think the adviser probably told Mrs E that shed be able to pass on the value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone she nominated and that a DB pension was more 
restrictive in this regard. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mrs E. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs E might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise 
her about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think David Stock explored to what extent Mrs E 
was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for different death 
benefits.
Mrs E was only 46 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw her retirement income. To this end, if Mrs E had lived a long life 
there could be nothing left at all in her personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 55 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy female retiring at 55 would likely have many 
years ahead in which she would be drawing down her pension funds thus leaving very little 
left to pass on to someone.
I cant say to what extent life insurance might have been discussed. But at 46 years old, a 
term life insurance policy would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mrs E really 
did want to leave a large lump sum legacy, rather than an annual pension, for a specific 
relative or someone other than a spouse. But more so, it doesnt appear that David Stock 
took into account the fact that Mrs E could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in her other DC scheme. Its easy to dismiss this because at the time this had only really just started. But this would have seen many years of contributions in the times ahead. 
So, to this end, Mrs E already had plenty of options ensuring part of her pension wouldnt 
die with her. There was no need to transfer.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs E. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mrs Es situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mrs E, like many employees of her company, was concerned about her 
pension. Her employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and David Stock said she lacked trust in the company. Shed heard negative things about 
the PPF and David Stock said she could have more control over her pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mrs E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns she had about her employer and a negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was David Stocks obligation to give Mrs E an objective picture and recommend 
what was in her best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that David Stock 
should have reassured Mrs E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as 
she thought. The income available to Mrs E through the PPF would have still probably 
provided a significant portion of the income she would have needed at retirement, and she 
was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given her ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to David Stocks recommendation to Mrs E to transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Use of a DFM and suitability of investments
David Stock recommended that Mrs E invest her funds in a personal pension and use a 
DFM to manage them. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of 
the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs E and I dont think she wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been given to her, it follows that I dont 
need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because she 
should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mrs E was suitable. 
She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mrs E was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I dont think it was in Mrs Es best interests for her to transfer her DB scheme to a personal 
pension when she had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I think David 
Stock should have advised Mrs E to opt into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mrs E still had 
many more years before she intended to retire and it was far too early to predict what her 
retirement might look like. I don't think that it would have been in her interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits she would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't 
be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. But by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mrs E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to her 
retirement age if she needed to. The annual indexation of her pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mrs E would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that David Stock disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mrs E, and provided her with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mrs E to transfer out, and I think Mrs E relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against David Stocks advice. I say this because Mrs E was likely an inexperienced investor 
and this pension accounted for virtually all of her retirement provision at the time. David 
Stock also couldnt predict future CETV values. So, if David Stock had provided her with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think David Stock should compensate Mrs E for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs E, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for David Stocks unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs 
E would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal 
pension if she'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on her 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. David 
Stock should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
David Stock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
David Stock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mrs E and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Es 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, David Stock should:calculate and offer Mrs E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs E before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs E receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs E accepts David Stocks offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs E for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, David Stock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mrs Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that David Stock should pay Mrs E for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mrs E in her particular circumstances. This pension at the time 
represented all of her retirement provision and it was a large pension. Mrs E had entered her 
mid-40s and although this was still too young to be transferring, I do think the thought of 
losing material benefits in her situation would have impacted heavily upon Mrs E. So I agree 
to an additional payment for this but am upgrading the recommended payment of £200 for 
distress and inconvenience to £300 as this is consistent with other decisions I have recently 
made and also the specific situation faced by Mrs E. David Stock should pay Mrs E this 
amount, £300, in addition to the redress Ive set out below.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct David Stock 
& Co Limited to pay Mrs E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mrs E the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs E.
If Mrs E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman