DRN-2971958
The complaint
Mr L complains that the loan he had from Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr L took out a fixed sum loan with Everyday Loans on 4 January 2018. He borrowed 
£3,500 and was due to repay it over 24 months with monthly repayments of £264.85. The 
loan was repaid on 1 Jan 2020.
Mr L says he took out the loan to repay others, but it kept him trapped him a vicious circle of 
debt as he wasnt earning enough to make the repayments. He says the whole process has 
affected his mental health.
Everyday Loans says it verified Mr Ls income using a bank statement and a payslip and 
confirmed his living arrangements. It says it also carried out a credit search and a job check. 
Everyday Loans adds that it used a statistical average to estimate Mr Ls personal 
expenditure and the calculations, based on the available information, showed the loan was 
affordable to him.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that Everyday 
Loans carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing in the checks that should 
have indicated the repayments were likely to be unsustainable for Mr L.
Mr L responded to say he was stuck in a cycle of high cost lending and that if Everyday 
Lending had carried out a better review of his finances it would have seen he was dependent 
on these loans and was using one to repay another. His representative added that his bank 
statements showed loans and repayments to at least four other high cost lenders, as well as 
returned direct debits and bank charges. It says Mr Ls financial situation continued to 
deteriorate and his dependency on loans started to spiral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Everyday Loans lent to Mr L. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ls case, Ive considered the following:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ls loan application to satisfy itself that hed be able to sustainably repay the loan? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see that Everyday Loans:Used the lower figure it found on Mr Ls bank statement for his monthly income;
Confirmed with Mr L that he was living with his parents and paying no rent;
Carried out a credit check that showed:
oThree outstanding short-term loans
oTwo other loans
Confirmed that Mr L would settle four of these loans with the new loan;
oThis meant that Mr Ls credit commitments going forward were around £36 
per month;
Used an estimate of the higher of 35% of income and £500 for Mr Ls other regular 
expenditure.
The above checks gave Mr L an estimated disposable income of around £850 per month, 
with which to make the repayments of £264.85.
Even though the loan repayments were almost 20% of Mr Ls income and Everyday Loans 
needed to ensure the repayments were sustainable for 24 months, I consider the checks 
were proportionate because:
Im satisfied Everyday Loans verified Mr Ls income;
The calculated disposable income was such that Mr Ls expenditure would have had 
to be significantly higher than the estimates to make the loan unaffordable;
A check of the bank statement that was reviewed by Everyday Loans did not show 
regular expenditure that was significantly higher than the £500 estimate;
I acknowledge that there were a number of returned direct debits in the statements that Mr L 
has now provided, but all the payments were subsequently re-taken without issues. Also, 
there do appear to be transactions that are for monthly rental payments of £250 to £300. 
However, based on the information Everyday Lending had, including Mr Ls assertion that he 
lived with his parents, I cant conclude there were clear indications that the affordability 
calculation may not be a fair reflection of Mr Ls financial circumstances and that further 
checks were required. Indeed, Mr L also provided evidence that he shared his home address 
with that of his mother and so its not unreasonable to accept that he wasnt required to pay 
rent.
Therefore, in answer to the first question Im satisfied Everyday Loans carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
So, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Given that I consider Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks, and these showed 
the repayments were affordable to Mr L, I have to conclude it made a fair lending decision. 
Indeed, I note that even if Everyday Lending had taken into account a £300 monthly rent 
going forwards, I think its more likely than not it would still have found the loan affordable. Ive seen evidence to show Mr L did indeed use the loan money to repay the four loans and 
that he repaid the loan on time with no obvious financial difficulties.
In summary, I find Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks, it made a fair lending 
decision and I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman