DRN-4404639
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by PensionHelp, when it was an appointed 
representative (AR) of Pareto Financial Planning Limited, to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Mr A is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). Except 
where its relevant, Ill refer to all submissions as being made by Mr A.
What happened
In late 2016 Mr A was aged 45, with a wife 3 years older than him, and employed as a
Pensions Technical Consultant for a pension provider. He was introduced to a firm of
advisers by a colleague who had also effected a pension transfer, and that firm of advisers
referred him on to PensionHelp.
Mr As defined benefit pension had been closed to future accrual in April 2016, leaving him
with a pension at that time of £11,902pa. If he took those benefits at the normal retirement
age of 60 they could likely be £16,884pa  or from age 50 after early retirement factors,
£7,982pa. Hes told us that he was aware that the alternative transfer value being offered by
the scheme for these benefits was at an historical high.
PensionHelp recorded that Mr A was concerned about protecting his right to retire at age 50,
which he wanted to do in the event of redundancy - and was aware that he, and a colleague
could transfer together as a buddy transfer. It says Mr A explicitly stated that his income
needs of £12,480pa would be fully met by his and Mrs As state pensions once their debts
were repaid, therefore the concern was bridging the gap until the state pension commenced.
He also wanted to ensure that his wife and then his two dependent daughters (aged 12)
would benefit from the pension in the event of his early death. He would only want to buy an
annuity if forced to do so by circumstances at the time.
The firm who referred Mr A to PensionHelp met with Mr A on 22 November 2016 and
completed PensionHelps fact-find for it, to gather information about Mr As circumstances
and objectives. It showed that Mr A earned £39,000pa and his wife £13,000pa. They were
both in good health. He held £53,000 equity in his main residence, and investments of
£5,000 but debts surpassing this of £12,000. He also had £1,020pm of disposable income.
PensionHelp also carried out an assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it deemed to be
5 (or balanced) on a scale from 1 to 10. As part of this assessment, it said he would be
concerned by a fall in value of more than 10% of his pension in any single year.
In a suitability report dated 6 December 2016, PensionHelp advised Mr A to transfer his
pension benefits into a SIPP. Theres no indication in the document that PensionHelp
actually met Mr A beforehand. The suitability report explained that Mr A didnt want the
restrictive option of a reduced annuity payable to his wife on his death, and wanted to shape
the format of income he received as his needs changed throughout retirement. PensionHelp
noted that if Mr A simply wanted to replicate the format of the scheme benefits, it wouldnt
recommend he transfer on account of the high investment return (or critical yield) required 
to do so. However under the alternative to an annuity of a pension drawdown arrangement, it
had concluded that the transfer represented a fair exchange for the benefits given up.
PensionHelp said that it was recommending the transfer alongside one of Mr As colleagues 
as part of a buddy transfer to preserve the early retirement age of 50. However its report 
went on to say that taking benefits before age 55 is not a priority for Mr A, and was only 
relevant if his circumstances changed (I assume in the event of redundancy). Mr A recalls  
that the buddy transfer was coincidental: the buddy hadnt been selected beforehand. In 
order to preserve the early retirement age, Mr A was also required to opt out of the 
replacement defined contribution (DC) section of his employers scheme which had started 
in April 2016, and transfer the additional sum in this section (£6,798) at the same time. He 
was entitled to immediately re-join a different section for ongoing service which PensionHelp 
said would be on the same terms as the DC section he left.
The advice incurred a 1% initial charge payable to PensionHelp and the transfer proceeds of
£350,827 were paid into a SIPP operated by the pension provider that Mr A worked for, on
24 January 2017. PensionHelp recommended it was invested 25% in an Absolute Return
Strategies fund and 73% in a Multi-manager fund, with a small balance in cash. The SIPP
illustration showed that the total reduction in yield due to charges including initial and
ongoing adviser fees was about 1.7%pa (for example for retirement at age 55)  illustrations
were also produced to other ages. On the application Mr A nominated that 100% of the
death benefits should go to his wife whilst she remained alive.
As part of the transfer documentation, Mr As DB scheme required Mr A to complete a
questionnaire to assess the risk that he might be the victim of a scam, as is good industry
practice. Mr As answers on his questionnaire to the reasons he was transferring were that
he wanted to access benefits before age 60 with no penalty; to have full flexibility in
investment strategy and income drawdown; and to be able to pass the funds on to his wife
and daughters.
PensionHelps report hadnt mentioned the colleague Mr A was doing a buddy transfer with,
but they were mentioned in a covering letter PensionHelp sent to the SIPP provider to
request the transfer, as the expiry date of that colleagues transfer value came a month
sooner than Mr As.
Notes that the adviser in the referring firm made on the day the transfer went through seem 
to support the contention that Mr A was intending to use this sum to repay his mortgage: [Mr 
A] intend [sic] to drawdown a tax free lump sum from his pension in due course to clear the 
mortgage. I explained to [Mr A] that by drawing down a lump sum his future income levels 
may be affected. [Mr A] acknowledges this but is keen to be mortgage free and then has the 
freedom to change his work life balance.
An ongoing advice fee of 0.6%pa was payable to the adviser who referred Mr A to
PensionHelp, which PensionHelp disclosed in its suitability report. It said that Mr A would
approach this adviser and not PensionHelp for regular reviews, and when he was ready to
start taking benefits. PensionHelp was told of the change of adviser in February 2017. That
adviser then seemingly went on to recommend a change of investments, which was effected 
from 8 February onwards. There also appears to be change to a model portfolio in January 
2020, although Im not aware who the adviser was by that point.
In April 2021 two payments totalling £31,595 were made into the SIPP, before Mr A withdrew
a total tax-free cash sum amounting to £117,994. This was a matter of days after he first
became entitled to do so at age 50, suggesting his right to an earlier retirement age had
been preserved. Mr A remains working at the DB schemes employer, and hasnt taken any
other income from his SIPP.Mr As representative complained in January 2022 to PensionHelp about the suitability of the
transfer advice. It raised a number of points including:
- The transfer incurred sizeable establishment fees and the added cost of employing
two advisers, meaning the critical yield calculated was unrealistic.
- The options of partial transfer, or early retirement directly from the scheme were
overlooked.
- Mr A shouldnt have given up the valuable spouses and dependants pensions under
the scheme.
PensionHelp initially responded to the complaint on Paretos behalf and didnt uphold it. It 
said it assessed Mr As complaint using the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s Defined 
Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT), and his objectives were plausible and clearly 
thought through, and could not have been met by remaining in the DB scheme. In particular, 
it said:
- Mr A didnt want to suffer the early retirement penalties on retirement at age 50
directly from the scheme.
- It didnt agree with Mr A that the costs involved represented poor value for money.
- The DB scheme booklet suggested no benefits were payable to Mr As daughters in
the event of his death.
- It had described Mr A in its suitability report as "an experienced financial professional
and [you] felt that you will be able to manage your money in such a way that it will
outstrip the scheme pension".
Mr A referred his complaint to our service, saying that his employment was in technical
processes and not a customer facing or advisory role. So, he wasnt fully aware of the loss of
guarantees hed suffer under the DB scheme or their implications.
Over the course of several submissions, the CMC told this service:
- The reason Mr A sought advice was that he lacked the understanding and
experience of DB schemes himself.
- Mr As DB scheme administrator wouldnt have released Mr As funds if hed received
advice against transferring which he was acting insistently against. That meant the
adviser was strongly motivated to recommend a transfer even if it wasnt suitable.
- Many members of Mr As scheme were targeted by advisers looking to effect
transfers and this service has upheld those other complaints.
- The suggestion that Mr A would take income from age 50 was always a pipe dream,
and the state pension doesnt come close to covering his needs in retirement.
- Mr A had no investment experience or appetite to self-manage his funds, and they
had performed well in the hands of his new adviser more by luck than judgement.
- Mr A didnt use up all of the tax-free cash he took at age 50. £95,000 of this has been
left unused.
- His wife and children would have received sufficient benefits if hed remained in the
DB scheme.
- Mr A had confirmed that the scheme wouldnt have permitted him to continue as an
insistent client. In support of this it provided a document hed received at the time: the
DB schemes own Pension Transfers  Your Guide.
Mr A also provided his own comments. He was clear that he hadnt been involved with DB
schemes at all, and added:
Its fair to say that working in the pensions industry, I had more knowledge than most.
[But] Had I been sufficiently knowledgeable, I wouldnt have paid a fee of 1% on the 
transfer or 0.6% pa fund management charge - I could have saved thousands of pounds. 
In my role as Technical Consultant, my expertise lay with the administration of DC 
schemesand the processes that underpin serviceWhilst I had a clear idea of what I wanted to do, surely the argument is was the advice to transfer in my best interests or 
not?
PensionHelp told us, Whilst [Mr A] may not have been a Pension Transfer Specialist,
he was absolutely aware of the risks of transfer and the course of action recommended. We
find the claim that a pensions technical expert would take a course of action with his pension
that he didnt understand to be very surprising. It said the claim was vexatious, as Mr A
ought to be considering the purchase of an annuity if he now considers he should have been
advised to retain a guaranteed income.
Provisional Decision of 21 September 2023
Our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, and my findings differed from his so I 
issued a Provisional Decision. I will reiterate here the findings I reached in this decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PensionHelp's actions here:
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Im minded to uphold the
complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its guidance COBS 19.1.6G
at the time that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is
unsuitable. However, the section of PensionHelps suitability report discussing a potential
transfer begins by quite comprehensively counteracting this starting assumption. It gives a
list of individuals for whom transfers would be suitable, some of which would be
understandable (such as members in ill health being able to secure higher benefits on an
immediate retirement basis). But others are generalised examples of wanting flexibility or
lump sums which reads more like a list of features a pension drawdown plan can provide,
without regard for the benefits that would be forgone in the DB scheme:
Transfer will not be suitable for all scheme members, but will be suitable for some individuals such
as those listed below:
- Those looking for options that the scheme cannot provide.
- Those who wish to shape benefits in line with their own personal and financial circumstances
- Those who might have a reduced life expectancy.- Single people who can purchase a higher pension on the open market.
- Those who require an immediate lump sum.
- Those who wish to retire immediately.
- Those who have or will have alternative income in retirement.
- Those looking to take benefits in a flexible manner.
- Those with a high appetite for investment risk.
This list is not exhaustive and there are other considerations for transfer for immediate annuity
purchase / pension transfer.
PensionHelp should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mr As best interests. This means having
adequate regard for the benefits he was giving up. And having looked at all the evidence
available, Im not satisfied that it has clearly demonstrated this.
Financial viability
PensionHelp produced a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator)
showing how much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide
the same benefits as his DB scheme by way of an annuity (the critical yield). PensionHelp
calculated this figure to be 5.62% for retirement at age 60. But for retirement at age 50 the
critical yield rose to 7.54%. I can see from the analysis that this was correctly based on a DB
spouses pension after retirement of 67% of the members pension (although the suitability
report refers to this as 50% as well as 67% in different places).
PensionHelp said at the time this critical yield was higher than the average return of 5.6% it
expected for the balanced risk investor it had classed Mr A as, but it provided alternative
analysis on the basis of Mr A transferring into drawdown instead. It said if he did this, a
pension pot growing at 5.6%pa would match the DB pension income, including annual
increases, to beyond age 120 if retiring at age 50; and up to age 110 if retiring at age 60.
However this involved making a forward-looking assumption that Mr A would be a suitable
candidate for income drawdown, because he couldnt take his benefits for at least five years.
Whilst PensionHelp assessed Mr As attitude to risk as balanced overall, there were some
conflicting answers to that questionnaire. In fact, most of his answers fitted in with the
second riskiest of the four (or sometimes five) options offered. They indicate that he could
only cope with infrequent periods where his investments might fall in value, as opposed to
the more likely answer for a balanced investor: I want to achieve higher medium term
returns than inflation. I understand there may be occasional extended periods where my
investments might fall in value. Despite this, PensionHelp went on to assert as reasons for
recommending the transfer in its suitability report that Mr A fully expect[ed] periods where
the value of your investments might suffer extended falls.
These assessments are only as good as the questions asked and the relative weightings
they give to the answers  and from what Ive seen Mr As attitude to risk specifically in
respect of making the transfer and foregoing the guaranteed benefits was somewhat lower
than medium. The suitability report also noted that if the investment underperformed, Mr A
would have to re-assess his standard of living and make cut-backs, because he had no other
savings. Strangely, again, PensionHelp suggested this meant he had a high capacity for
loss  which again I dont consider was plausible given Mr As answers.
I acknowledge that the adviser who referred Mr A to PensionHelp went on to assess Mr A as
a balanced risk investor too. Having transferred his pension, he may well have needed to be
to avoid losing too much ground against the DB scheme. I also accept that when Mr A
ranked his priorities, guaranteeing benefits for himself and his spouse both came last, below
his preferences for flexibility and maximising lump sums and income to better meet his
needs. However I dont find these answers surprising if Mr A was attracted to the flexibility adrawdown plan could offer  and which PensionHelp had already indicated was a good
reason for transferring.
In reality, for Mr A to maximise his income in particular, he would need to get these returns
on a sustained year-on-year basis no matter how the markets fluctuated: so he would need
to get enough growth in the good years to see him through periods where the markets might
be falling, so that he ended up with this average investment return overall. This was not
without significant risk, and Mr A was being asked to start accepting that risk about five
years before he could actually make any decisions regarding drawing his pension.
In Mr As contradictory answers to some of these questions I think there are indications he
would have become concerned if the investments did not perform to plan  essentially
because he didnt have the high capacity for loss that PensionHelp said he had. Whilst I
appreciate Mr A would accrue further benefits in his employers replacement DC scheme,
part of the advice contemplated him leaving that employer in the coming years. And as it
stood at the time, the DB pension was his main asset, calling into question whether would
have had the temperament to manage with that being exposed to risk throughout his
retirement.
As our Investigator noted, the estimate PensionHelp gave (or accepted from the referring
adviser) of Mr and Mrs As minimum income requirement appears over-optimistic.
Notwithstanding that most of their basic income needs would likely still have been met by
both their state pensions combined, the state pension alone isnt generally considered to
provide a comfortable standard of living. I find the comments Ive quoted above from the
suitability report, that Mr A would have been nervous at the prospect of falls in in his
investment and that he and Mrs A would have to make cut-backs, more telling here.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
assessing a critical yield for future annuity purchase.
The relevant discount rate at the time of the advice here was 3% per year for 4 years to
retirement at age 50, or 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement at age 60. Ive kept in mind
that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the
lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and
Mr As attitude to risk which in my view was lower than medium when considering his
attitude to transfer risk: that is, his ability to accept the risks of exchanging guaranteed
benefits for an income dependent entirely on investment returns. I find this makes the critical
yield that is based on purchasing an annuity  which mitigates some of those risks  the
most relevant measure here. And it was, at the time, the measure the regulator required
PensionHelp to use.
There would be little point in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme  so he
would need to have reasonable prospects of targeting higher returns than the rates Ive
quoted. Having considered this, I think Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to
and ability to accept this transfer risk.
So, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As best interests on the grounds offinancial viability alone. But that isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as
PensionHelp has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a
transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits, if they are contemporaneously
demonstrated in a particular individuals case.
Mr As objectives
On the same day that the referring firm completed PensionHelps fact find for Mr A, it made a
meeting note which explained the background to Mr A seeking a transfer in more detail 
and this appears on PensionHelps file. It made the following points:
- Mr A was concerned about redundancy because of his 20+ year career at his
employer.
- He intended to stop working for that employer from age 50 and potentially use tax
free cash from the DB pension to either clear his mortgage or to buy a new rental
property, and then work potentially as a contractor or in a completely different field.
- Mr and Mrs A would seek to reduce their working hours and potentially work part
time.
- Mr A was experienced in the financial services industry and pensions and thought the
transfer value of £345,000 was good value compared to the projected pension of
£11,500pa from the DB scheme (I note this was the unrevalued pension figure).
- Mr A believed he could significantly grow his fund under a SIPP, and provide income
flexibility for himself and his dependants.
-[Mr A] explained that the level of income payable in his opinion was not sufficient for
what he required and that in the event of his early demise he was convinced that this
would not be sufficient for [Mrs A] and the girls.
Mr As knowledge and experience
As some of the referring advisers, and then PensionHelps, comments refer to Mr As
knowledge and experience as a result of working for a financial services provider, Ive
considered these first. Mr A has had an opportunity to respond to his comments which
PensionHelp highlighted from a social media site. It does appear hed worked in roles
connected to financial services for 25 years, but from what I can see this was on the
business development side rather than (say) concerned with the actuarial processes
involved in how pension schemes operated.
PensionHelp described Mr A in its suitability report as a technical consultant as was
recorded on the fact find, which is not entirely the same thing as it now says a pensions
technical consultant. Whilst Mr A did have a financial services background, a full reading of
the online profile suggests that he only began his specific role in workplace pensions in
2018. But either way I accept his evidence that these werent DB schemes. His employer
didnt actually administer DB schemes: even its own DB scheme was run by a third-party
administrator.
It's likely that the prospect of a transfer was highlighted to Mr A because of people he came
into contact with through his role. And he didnt have a free choice about whether to take
advice as he was required by legislation to do so. However, I cant safely conclude in this
case that he had enough expertise to already understand what he was doing before
speaking to PensionHelp. He was just as entitled as the next person to receive suitable
advice. He also wasnt required to take the ongoing advice he was getting from the referring
adviser; and if  as stated  he was confident that he could make investments to grow the
pension pot significantly himself, I dont think he would have needed to take that advice or
use the services of a discretionary manager.
Flexibility and income needs
It appears that Mr As concerns about redundancy were, understandably, prompting him toconsider taking steps that maximised the options he had with his pension fund. However, he
already had an important option under the DB scheme: the ability to take his pension from
age 50. Those benefits would be reduced for early payment, but PensionHelp didnt do
enough in my view to prevent this being viewed as a penalty rather than largely just
reflecting the fact that they would be paid for ten years longer than if Mr A retired at the
scheme retirement age.
In the event Mr A was made redundant, an immediate early retirement pension from the DB
scheme would have provided a useful top up to the income they [he and Mrs A] were 
discussing earning on a part-time basis. In effect, it would already give them some of the 
flexibility they might need. That level of income could be increased by deferring the age at 
which it was brought into payment. Although the right to retire this early was preserved by 
the buddy transfer, employers sometimes enhance early retirement pensions in the event of 
redundancy  and any potential for that would have been lost by transferring.
Thats about as much as I can say about Mr As plans for taking an income, as these werent
at all concrete: they were contingent on things such as redundancy that might not happen.
His CMC says that the prospect of retiring at 50 was purely an aspiration and I agree. The
word potentially was used several times in the referring advisers note regarding Mr As
income and tax-free cash plans. Mr A couldnt know that he would actually be made
redundant, and if he wasnt he might have remained at the same employer for years to
come, with no particular need to think about more flexible income options.
The transfer analysis included basic cashflow modelling for how long a drawdown pot might
sustain the DB scheme income. To my mind this downplayed the risks of drawdown because
it gave the impression the strategy was bound to succeed (as Mr As view of life expectancy 
was likely not as high as ages 110 or 120). It didnt include any indication of the impact a 
downturn in the markets might have, or the resulting risk of these worser case scenarios 
meaning he ran out of income. In any event, the projected illustrations for the pension 
transfer on Mr As file are not based on income drawdown at all: they assume income being 
taken as an annuity from either 50, 55 or 60. I think this underlines that it was simply too 
premature to be making a life-changing decision based on potential and aspirational aims.
Ive also considered the possibility that Mr A would want to access just the tax-free cash
from his pension, which he had the right to do five years before most people can from the
minimum pension age of 55. But again I dont think any plans were concrete here: reference
was made only to the possibility he might pay off his mortgage or buy another property. Mr
and Mrs A werent in particular financial difficulty with their mortgage unless perhaps he was
made redundant or developed firmer plans, as time went on, to reduce his working hours.
Interest rates were at an historic low at the time of the advice, so I dont consider the case
for making a pension transfer five years before Mr A could even access this sum has been
demonstrated.
I know the Investigator suggested that Mr A withdrawing the tax-free cash as soon as he
could in 2021 was evidence of him fulfilling a plan that he had all along. But, having been
advised to transfer for the flexibility of this option, Im not surprised that Mr A went on to do
this. It doesnt to my mind say much about whether that was in fact the right advice. The
CMC has pointed out that Mr A didnt use much of this sum and thats consistent with his
mortgage being under control at the time. I could equally point out that Mr A hasnt gone on
to take any income from the SIPP as suggesting that he hasnt utilised the flexibility of
accessing some income  for instance if Mr A was made redundant. But there was no need
to make a decision to transfer to do that about five years beforehand, and accept the
possibility of significant investment losses in the meantime.
The referring firms note said that the level of income from the DB pension wasnt sufficient
for Mr As needs. So in my view, the income level (which would increase with inflation) wasbest maximised by remaining in the scheme until and unless there was an overriding need to
access benefits in a different form. Ive seen no evidence that such a moment would by now
have arrived or is likely to arrive.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. I can see that the lump sum death
benefits on offer through a personal pension were attractive to Mr A. But a pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So, even if Mr A might have thought it
was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to the SIPP because of this, the priority for
PensionHelp was to advise him about the most suitable way of providing retirement income
for him (and Mrs A) whilst he remained alive.
I dont think PensionHelp did enough here to explore to what extent Mr A was prepared to
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits  and more
importantly to explain the risks he was accepting. Ive already highlighted above that the
basic cashflow modelling undertaken didnt highlight that there could be worse case
scenarios where Mr A potentially ran out of income during his own lifetime.
According to the notes the referring adviser made, Mr A didnt just think the DB scheme
income was insufficient for his dependants. He also thought it was insufficient for his own
needs, meaning I think it should have been PensionHelps priority to ensure that Mr A wasnt
put in a position where he could have ended up with less income than the DB scheme before
his dependants were even considered. Notably this is also at odds with PensionHelps belief
that state pension levels were sufficient for Mr and Mrs A in retirement.
The spouses pension on death after retirement from the DB scheme (when statistically,
Mr A was most likely to pass away) was 67% of the pension he would have been entitled to
take before commutation of tax-free cash, with annual increases added up to the date of
death. This makes the benefit very generous indeed  such that even in the event of his
early demise his wife would be able to make significant provision for their children from it.
I dont think PensionHelp made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum
remaining on death in a personal pension was. Furthermore, the suitability report correctly
said The scheme rules allow for the provision of a children's pension however the child
must be under age 18 or under age 23 and in full time education. The subsequent pension
would stop at age 23 or when the child leaves full time education whichever is earlier.
I accept that a beneficiarys pension under drawdown wouldnt be taxable if Mr A died before
age 75, whereas any spouses DB pension would be subject to Mrs As marginal rate of
income tax. However a potentially higher pension that was then taxed could be seen as
preferable to having to accept the risk of Mr As beneficiaries ending up with lower benefits if
he died later in retirement. Indeed if he died after age 75, which was most likely, there would
be no difference in terms of taxation. So Im not persuaded that there were sufficient grounds
here to persuade Mr A to relinquish these potentially valuable benefits.
If Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which didnt depend on
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think
PensionHelp should have instead explored life insurance, so that Mr A could compare the
costs and risks. Whatever remained of his pension was likely to be relatively small compared
with the initial transfer value by the time he died, and inexpensive to provide through an
insurance policy given that he was in good health. In any event, the very generous spouses
pension from the DB scheme would likely prove more valuable because it would be paid for
Mrs As remaining lifetime.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But
PensionHelp wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The
advisers role was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his
best interests. If PensionHelp had conducted a full meeting with Mr A rather than relying on
fact-finding and notes completed by the referring adviser, I think its more likely it would have
established this.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was likely to obtain lower
benefits for the rest of his and/or Mrs As life with the attitude to risk he held. In my view,
there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr A
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to access a potential lump
sum in future when his mortgage was affordable, or to give the possibility of drawing income
that he didnt yet need. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the
guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
PensionHelp recommended that Mr A invest in funds which appear to have only been a
holding position before the referring adviser went on to give further investment advice. So I
havent considered these in any detail. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments PensionHelp or the referring
adviser recommended wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
If given suitable advice, would Mr A have acted insistently?
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against
PensionHelp's advice not to transfer. PensionHelp argues that this is the case, saying that
Mr A was convinced of the case of transferring when the transfer value was particularly high
and was confident he could grow the pension pot further. But Mr A says that the scheme
wouldnt have permitted a transfer to be made on an insistent client basis.
Firstly I should say I think Mr A is mistaken here. Under the Pension Schemes Act 2015, the
DB scheme only had to check that Mr A had received advice from an appropriately regulated
firm; not what that advice was. If it had refused to release Mr As funds because of the
nature of the advice, that would have run contrary to the law. But I dont think matters would
have come to this in any event: Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring
out of the DB scheme, against PensionHelps advice.
I say this because Mr A was not, contrary to what PensionHelp suggests, experienced in
how DB schemes work and what value to place on the benefits he would have been giving
up. Yes, transfer values had got to a historical high because of how low interest rates were,
but that simply meant that the cost of providing the pension with guarantees outside the DB
scheme had also increased.
Although I accept Mr A would have been more familiar than many consumers with the
concept of investing the transferred funds on a defined contribution basis, his subsequent
actions have shown that hes still reliant on advice and is happier to delegate investment
decisions to others. From what I can see, in 2017 he wanted to take at most a medium risk
approach with this pot once transferred, and would still have been concerned by moderatefalls in value.
Whilst its fortunate that the pot has benefited from good investment returns, Mr A couldnt
know at the time that this was certain to be the outcome. And as Ive said above,
PensionHelp should have explained clearly to Mr A why the objectives of flexibility and
potentially better death benefits shouldnt override the importance of protecting his main
source of income in future retirement. So, if the advice which he was reliant on from
PensionHelp wasnt in favour of transferring, Im not satisfied that Mr A would have had the
appetite to proceed against its advice.
Even if Mr A had some concerns about redundancy, he wasnt losing any options by leaving
his pension in the DB scheme: he could still transfer at a later date. I note that a partial
transfer was even available from the scheme, which may have remained a relevant option
later if redundancy took place closer to age 55 (as it wouldnt have preserved the protected
retirement age). Lastly, its apparent that Mr A wasnt closely connected with the buddy he
was transferring with  so it would have been a matter for PensionHelp to address and not
Mr A, if he chose not to transfer and this affected the position of a colleague.
If PensionHelp had explained that Mr A could meet all of his objectives, or leave enough
options open, without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant
weight. So, I dont think Mr A would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
Pareto Financial Planning Limited (as PensionHelps principal) should compensate Mr A for
the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress
methodology.
PensionHelp argues that Mr A should be demonstrating his preference for a guaranteed
income now by purchasing an annuity, and his failure to do shows that the complaint is
vexatious. I disagree. Mr A is still working for his original employer and evidently not in need
of a guaranteed income stream at this time. Whether he buys one in future is a matter for
him to decide, in light of the changed position he is now in as a result of a transfer I dont
consider should have taken place. Ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be
appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Potential responsibility the referring adviser may have for any losses
I dont know if Pareto Financial Planning Limited will consider that the referring advisers firm
has also separately caused some of Mr As loss, but its possible that it might think so. For
the avoidance of doubt, in these circumstances I think it fair to make an award for the whole
loss against Pareto Financial Planning Limited.
PensionHelp shouldnt have recommended Mr A transfer out of his DB scheme. And it was
only as a result of PensionHelps involvement that Mr A transferred to the SIPP.
PensionHelps role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the
funds being transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr A couldnt have invested as he did.
So, in my view, the entirety of Mr As loss stems from PensionHelps unsuitable advice to
transfer away from his DB scheme.
The FCA has also made it clear that in order to give suitable advice on a transfer or switch of
pension benefits, the advice has to include the suitability of the underlying investments.
Should Pareto Financial Planning Limited now consider that there are any aspects of the
referring firms investment recommendations it wouldnt have agreed with, it wasnt
prevented from establishing this at the time and explaining to Mr A that it would affect the
suitability of its advice. PensionHelp needed to do enough to ensure that the two firms
worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to Mr A.So, for these reasons, I think holding Pareto Financial Planning Limited responsible for the
whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Responses to the Provisional Decision
Mr A accepted the Provisional Decision. Pareto did not. Ive considered everything that it 
said. In summary, it made the following main points:
Mr As background
No reasonable person would consider that Mr A is not a professional pension 
technical expert and it was equally clear that he knew exactly what he wanted to do.
I had dismissed his professional LinkedIn profile using the misleading term social 
media when its an accurate reflection of his role and expertise. That involved 
advising FTSE 100 companies who would surely be in the process of restructuring 
their DB schemes and therefore required someone with that knowledge. 
His CMC has avoided any mention of what Mr As job actually involves, and has 
covered up his expertise in a deliberate, ridiculous and obvious way. 
There is no way that aspecialist in Workplace Pensions would be unaware of how 
money purchase funds convert into income at the end of the journey.
I should name Mr As employer in my decision so that it is aware of his professed 
ignorance of DB pensions.
The situation at Mr As employer
Members of the DB scheme had been in the privileged position of obtaining unlimited 
recalculations of their transfer value, during a period where they were rising to 
historically high levels. The employer then limited them to one further value for the 
next 12 months.
Suitability of the transfer
PensionHelps assessment of Mr As attitude to risk has been ignored and claims that 
he was risk averse are false.
[D]uring discussions Pareto have been involved in with our trade-body and the FCA, 
we were advised of FCAs confidence that the Ombudsman approach would be 
consistent with their approach on DB transfer advice. This provisional decision also 
seems to be out of touch with the FCA causation training that we have seen. We 
therefore request that you reconsider you view on this.
This service had not used the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool 
(DBAAT), which is the tried and tested industry tool to give consistency of reviewing 
defined benefit advice. Pareto invited the comments of a skilled person on the FCA 
panel for reviewing such advice, who considered PensionHelps advice to have been 
suitable.
Causation
In terms of causation, Mr A explicitly said to this service that he had a clear idea of 
what he wanted to do, and I had simply dismissed this. The SIPP has met every 
aspect of what Mr A was looking to achieve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Pareto said, I havent been persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings. Before I explain why, I should state that some of Paretos remarks were generalised 
comments about how members of the same DB scheme as Mr A presented as confident investors; frustrated at being required by law to pay for advice at the time PensionHelp 
advised Mr A. I think this is of no more value in deciding, on the facts of this case, how Mr A 
presented to PensionHelp than  as Pareto also notes  the CMCs references to 
widespread mis-selling of pension transfers out of this DB scheme. Its the evidence specific 
to this complaint that I must consider, and I have done that.
Pareto also said that Mr A cancelled the ongoing advice charge after transferring and 
managed his own funds. That is not the case and I set out in the background to this case 
what further fund switches were made whilst an ongoing charge was being collected, 
including the use of a model portfolio (which is largely the opposite of Mr A managing his 
own funds).
The ongoing advice charge was always going to go to the firm who referred Mr A to 
PensionHelp, and the transaction statements for his SIPP provider show that they continued 
to be collected after Mr A moved to that firm. Im unable to comment on whether that new 
firm gave Mr A advice when he later took tax-free cash out of the plan. But Ive said in the 
Provisional Decision that this represented Mr A making use of the flexibility on the basis of 
which the plan had been sold to him by PensionHelp. I have nothing to add on that point.
Turning to those points Pareto made which I summarised above, in terms of Mr As 
background I considered and referred in my Provisional Decision to the evidence which was 
available. This included Mr As LinkedIn profile, because PensionHelp had already extracted 
information from that and highlighted it to this service. Im not going to debate whether this 
technically comes under the umbrella of social media or not. But Id like to assure Pareto that 
I took the information displayed on that site into account. 
This was information that was likely to be visible to Mr As employer (or other employees at 
that company)  and, whilst that isnt in and of itself a guarantee of its accuracy, its likely a 
fair reflection of the type of work Mr A was doing. However, I also weighed this up against 
Mr As submissions (made by his CMC) on this point. I took into account all the evidence, as 
Im required to do. And I dont think there is much in Paretos suggestion that the CMC has 
painted a picture of a completely different role to that displayed online. The nature of Mr As 
role as described is open to interpretation, and where there is ambiguity Pareto and the 
CMC have provided differing explanations.
Paretos view seems to be that Mr A is an expert in all matters relating to pensions (taken in 
its broadest meaning). It also refers in its suitability report to Mr A being an experienced 
financial professional.  However it does concede that, specifically, Mr A claims to be a 
specialist in workplace pensions. As I noted in my Provisional Decision, Mr As employer is 
well-known in the field of DC pension schemes. However Ive looked further into what Mr A, 
through his CMC, has told us  and how this compares to his online profile.
Mr A was candid in saying that he had more knowledge than most, but I agree the point 
hes made that he paid for advice (which wasnt a legal requirement) on the ongoing 
management of his funds, is relevant. This was in the field of DC pensions, which judging by 
his online profile was the main thing he came across in his day-to-day work consulting on 
workplace pensions. Not only are the vast majority of workplace pensions these days 
established on a DC basis, Mr A specifically explains that he had expertise in the 
administration of this type of scheme. Thats supported by his online profile, which names 
three specific types of pension scheme that are all marketed by his employer on a DC basis.
Mr A says that his day to day role was in the technical processes that underpin how the DC 
scheme operates. His online profile suggests that he had a wide role covering all matters 
relating to corporate pensions, particularly covering the impact of legislation and the delivery 
of projects  in other words, crossing into the management/IT side. It wasnt specialised, for 
example, in actuarial work or the provision of the sort of advice Mr A received from PensionHelp. Thats consistent in my view with why he would be paying for ongoing advice 
from the adviser who referred him to PensionHelp. 
In my view, Pareto hasnt established an argument that Mr A would plausibly have known 
enough to advise himself on the even more complex area of pensions which concerns the 
value in a DB pension arrangement and the transfer of risk involved in replicating this in a 
DC environment. (That is, of course, ignoring the fact that he was in any event required by 
law to take professional advice on these matters.) Its point that Mr A being familiar with the 
decumulation process  taking an income from DC pensions  doesnt speak much to his 
understanding of all these risks and the prospects of him benefiting from a DB transfer.
I dont find the CMCs suggestion implausible that Mr A would have valued  and relied on  
the advice from PensionHelp that he was required to seek. Im not disagreeing with Pareto, 
to the extent that even with a role in DC schemes Mr A would have come across and 
understood a fair bit about DB schemes as well  for instance because he was coming into 
contact with FTSE-100 companies that were also likely to have those schemes. But Pareto 
has also made the suggestion that anyone in a DB scheme would have an understanding of 
how it worked. If thats the wider point its making then I think that, also, falls a long way 
short of establishing that Mr A had the requisite knowledge to not be reliant on 
PensionHelps advice.
There is a reason why, for example, the actuarial profession requires professional 
qualifications; or why the FCA at the time of Mr As transfer required those giving DB transfer 
advice to hold the customer-dealing function (CF30) and pension transfer specialist status 
(or for the advice to be checked by someone who did). We wouldnt name a complainants 
employer in an anonymised decision, for obvious reasons. However Im satisfied theres 
enough evidence in this case to demonstrate that Mr A didnt possess the depth of analysis 
that he was entitled to expect from PensionHelp. 
That was the very essence of why the adviser was required to have regulatory approval, and 
qualifications, that Mr A didnt have. I see no basis for short-circuiting the process through 
which Mr A should have been given suitable advice by PensionHelp and then deciding, on a 
fair and reasonable basis, whether he would have followed that suitable advice once given.
Regarding the suitability of the advice, Ive checked the CMCs letter of claim and our 
complaint form and Ive found no claim that Mr A was risk averse. They focus on the 
inconsistencies in PensionHelps risk questioning process as well as its implausibly high 
assessment of his capacity for loss, both of which I agreed with in my Provisional Decision.
Pareto hasnt made specific reference to what comments of the regulator or its trade body it 
considers my decision is inconsistent with. I am of course aware of the FCAs DBAAT tool, 
which is designed to help establish and guide users as to whether DB transfer advice was 
suitable in a specific case. Again, it hasnt provided results of the DBAAT tool in this 
particular case, but I dont need to see these to make the point that the outputs from a tool 
like this are largely dependent on what is input, and/or if the reviewer accepts the answer 
theyre being guided to.
Im considering this advice independently and Im not bound by what another skilled person 
thought of PensionHelps advice. As set out at the beginning of the decision Ive taken into 
account COBS 9 and COBS 19 as well as the Principles, FCA rules and guidance and good 
industry practice. Having done so, I havent been able to fairly conclude that Mr A could have 
been suitably advised to transfer his pension. 
This doesnt mean I applied different considerations to the regulator. However it is my 
weighing up, as ombudsman, of the priority PensionHelp should have afforded to the 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income Mr A was already entitled to from the DB scheme. And the fact that there were no compelling reasons to make a transfer in the face of 
this at the time of advice. I note that much of Paretos response focused on Mr As 
professional background and the situation at his employer - but it has not engaged on the 
points I made that Mr A couldnt yet access funds from this pension or for that matter need 
an income; his mortgage was affordable in an environment of low interest rates; and he was 
entitled to generous death benefits from the DB scheme when they were most likely to be 
payable  after his retirement.
Finally, to return to Paretos closing point about causation, I havent denied that Mr A did 
approach PensionHelp with a seemingly clear idea of what he wanted to do. But 
PensionHelps role wasnt simply to take orders from Mr A. That doesnt of itself show that 
he would then have ignored the suitable advice he should have received. Rather than 
dismissing this point, Ive explained in the Provisional Decision and in this Final Decision that 
Mr A didnt have the skill and experience to conclude that a transfer was in his best interests, 
particularly in the face of advice he should have received that it was not. 
The information about the prevailing situation at Mr As employer is of course relevant, but I 
had already allowed for the potential for group think in my Provisional Decision. That is, 
other people at Mr As employer  including the person he says referred him to PensionHelp 
 encouraging him (by their own actions) to also transfer. But that makes no difference to the 
quality of advice he expected to, and was entitled to, receive  and gives all the more reason 
for PensionHelp to caution him against following the seemingly high transfer value to his 
ultimate detriment. Overall Im persuaded that Mr A would have acted reasonably, and 
ultimately in his best interests, in response to Paretos advice not to transfer his pension. 
And so he wouldnt have transferred.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Pareto Financial Planning Limited to put Mr A,
as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
I consider Mr A would have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if
suitable advice had been given.
Pareto Financial Planning Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, the calculation will need to involve proportioning-out the further contributions Mr A
made to his SIPP, and part of the tax-free cash withdrawn, in line with established practice in
the industrywide Pensions Review. And Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to
do so at present. So, compensation should be based on the DB schemes normal retirement
age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. The regulators methodology
will give credit for the portion of the tax-free cash Mr A has already taken from his SIPP that 
relates to the DB transfer.
This calculation must be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of
notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Pareto Financial Planning Limited must:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment the
SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts Pareto Financial Planning Limiteds offer to calculate how much of the
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented,
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Pareto
Financial Planning Limited may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pareto Financial 
Planning Limited Limited to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Pareto Financial Planning Limited pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Pareto Financial
Planning Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A
can accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman