DRN-2725252
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt open an account for him and hasnt given him 
a valid reason for its decision. He also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr S made an online application on 1 February 2019 to open a current account with 
HSBC. He got an acknowledgment on 4 February 2019. It said hed be contacted by 
HSBC. When he hadnt heard anything, he went to a branch of HSBC.
He says he was told he needed to get a letter from his employer. He brought this to the 
branch a few days later but was told that it didnt contain all the information HSBC needed. 
So, he provided an updated letter to the branch on 14 February 2019. HSBC then told him 
it would take four to eight weeks to process his application.
Mr S says he had urgently required the account so that his first pay cheque could be 
credited to it. He says HSBCs actions caused him financial and mental distress. He 
thought HSBC had discriminated against him on grounds of his nationality. So, he 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated his complaint. It said itd never given any guarantee that an account 
could be opened before his first pay cheque was due to be credited. It also said its policies 
and procedures required it to carry out additional checks before the account could be 
opened. HSBC said it hadnt discriminated against Mr S. It said Mr S had been able to 
open an alternative bank account. So, he would be able to arrange for his salary to be paid 
into it.
HSBC acknowledged it hadnt followed its account opening process correctly. And, it said 
the information the branch had given to Mr S was also incorrect. It offered to pay him £100 
by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr S was dissatisfied with this response. So, he complained to our service. He said he 
hadnt been given proper or timely information about his application; he hadnt been given
any decision about his application or why it was rejected; and hed experienced loss and 
distress as a result of whatd happened. He said he wanted to know the reason for his 
application having been rejected and he wanted compensation for the problems hed 
experienced because of HSBCs inadequate communication.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said HSBC was entitled to carry out 
additional checks as part of its due diligence process. There was no guarantee the account 
could be opened before Mr Ss first pay cheque was due to be paid in. He said HSBC had 
accepted the information the branch had given to Mr S was incorrect. It also accepted this 
had caused further delays. But he thought £100 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr S had experienced.
Mr S didnt agree. HSBC accepted that Mr S had experienced distress and inconvenience 
because it hadnt been able to clarify exactly what had happened. It increased its 
compensation offer to £300 (in total) in order to resolve the complaint. Mr S didnt accept 
this. He said he needed clarity and acceptance by HSBC that it had acted wrongly and 
needed to change its policies towards people of colour and people coming from certain 
countries to reside in the UK. He said hed been discriminated against and this had caused 
mental trauma which he didnt think HSBC would be able to compensate him for.
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the various events which happened after Mr S made his online 
application to open an account with HSBC. He made his application on 1 February 
2019 and it was submitted to HSBC the next day.
Referral to the safeguarding team
HSBC says it had procedures in place which meant that Mr Ss application had to 
be referred to its safeguarding team before the account could be opened.
It is the case that there are regulatory requirements which mean that HSBC, in 
common with all financial services firms, must have policies and procedures to 
minimise money laundering risks. Ive looked at the guidance issued by the Joint 
Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG). This states each firm should 
determine the level of customer due diligence it needs to take when opening an 
account. And, its customer due diligence procedures should be effective and 
proportionate to the degree of risk associated with the firms business and its 
customers.
The guidance also states that the risk assessment should help the firm identify 
whether an application is low risk (which means standard due diligence is required) 
or whether it is high risk (which means that more extensive due diligence is required). 
When making this assessment it must take into account certain factors which include 
country or geographical risks, customer risk and product/service risk.
In this case Mr Ss application was made online. HSBCs procedures identified that 
there was certain information hed provided which meant that additional due 
diligence was required. So, the application was referred to its safeguarding team. 
Its provided evidence that that referral was made on 3 February which was shortly 
after the application was made.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said about why the application was referred to 
its safeguarding team. During a telephone call with Mr S, HSBC said it was referred 
to the safeguarding team because of the country where hed previously lived. 
Subsequently HSBC said it was referred to the safeguarding team because of a number of factors, based on its risk assessment. And its confirmed to our service 
that these factors arose because of information Mr S had provided on his 
application form.
HSBC says Mr S confirmed his nationality on the application form. It says this 
country is classed as a High Tax Transparency country on the Country Risk 
Model. And, as such, HSBC says it was required to complete additional customer 
due diligence prior to making a decision as to whether or not it could open the 
account.
It also says it had questions about the source of Mr Ss wealth and how he had 
compiled the funds he specified he would be depositing. It also says it wanted to 
ask him about the cash deposits hed indicated he would make.
Having read the JMLSG guidance Im satisfied HSBC was required to have 
procedures in place which took into account a number of risk factors including 
country or geography. These risk factors can be impacted by other variables 
such as the level of assets to be deposited.
Mr S says this is discriminatory and indicates race profiling is taking place.
Id just point out that I cant make a formal determination as to whether HSBC has 
breached the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA) by discriminating against Mr S because of 
his nationality  only a court can do that. But I can consider whether HSBC has 
acted fairly and reasonably taking into consideration the laws, regulations and 
circumstances of each case  which here, includes the EqA.
Having done so, Im satisfied HSBC was required to take country and geographical 
factors into account when making its risk assessment about the application. And, as 
Ive mentioned above it was also entitled to take other factors into consideration, 
such as information Mr S provided about deposits he intended to make to the 
account, when deciding whether to refer the matter to its safeguarding team.
It is the case that Mr S had recently moved to the UK. He was not classed as 
domiciled in the UK prior to making the application. And, when he made the online 
application, he didnt have a previous relationship with HSBC. The JMLSG guidance 
indicates that these circumstances can be taken into account when assessing 
whether additional due diligence is required. So, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when, in line with its procedures, it referred the application to its 
safeguarding team.
The service received at HSBCs branch
HSBC has acknowledged that its branch provided incorrect information to Mr S. It 
told him he needed to provide it with a letter from his employer. And, it said it would 
take 48 hours to open the account after it received the letter. When he provided the 
letter, it told him he needed to get the letter amended so that additional information 
was included. Once he provided the amended letter, he was told it would take a 
further four to eight weeks to open the account. All of this information was 
incorrect.
As mentioned above HSBC acknowledged incorrect information was given to 
Mr S. Its apologised for this.The JMLSG guidance requires HSBC to have policies, controls and procedures, 
including staff awareness training. Mr S says HSBC staff in the branch hadnt 
been adequately trained.
HSBC says its branch staff wouldnt have known that additional checks were 
required. And, although that doesnt explain why Mr S was told to get a letter from 
his employer, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect the branch staff 
to be familiar with the referral processes used for online applications. But I 
wouldve expected the branch staff to have enough knowledge about the 
procedures to have escalated Mr Ss concerns to the appropriate team within the 
bank so that he couldve been given the correct information. If it had done that then 
I think Mr S wouldve known earlier that the application couldnt be processed 
within the timeframe he required.
Mr Ss first visit to the branch was 7 February 2019. But HSBC says that even if 
hed been given the correct information at that date his application wouldnt have 
been completed before 20 February which was the date he says his employer 
required the account number.
Ill consider this further below.
The delay in processing the application
After the application was referred to the safeguarding team, I wouldve expected that 
team to consider everything Mr S had told it on the application form and make a 
determination about what additional due diligence it required. But HSBC says that 
the safeguarding team didnt deal with the application as soon as it was referred.
The JMLSG guidance is clear that the due diligence measures should be 
undertaken in a timely basis. HSBC didnt do that here. HSBC now says that its 
safeguarding team reviewed the application on 16 February 2019 and tried to 
phone Mr S at that time. It says it wasnt able to speak to Mr S because he didnt 
answer the phone. So, the application was dropped.
I havent seen evidence that the call took place as HSBC says it did. But, even if it 
did call Mr S and Mr S didnt answer, I dont think thats a reasonable explanation for 
dropping the application. HSBC couldve tried to contact Mr S by other means  
such as email. And, it also wasnt reasonable to have dropped the application in 
circumstances where, at that time, Mr S had already contacted HSBCs branch and 
sent emails to express his dissatisfaction about what was happening. Infact, it 
wasnt until 26 February, after Mr S had raised a complaint, that the application was 
eventually picked up again by the safeguarding team.
When HSBC spoke to Mr S on 27 February it told him hed need to speak to the 
safeguarding team and the onus was on him to make an appointment to do that. 
But I dont agree. I think there was an onus on the safeguarding team to consider 
his application and then contact Mr S to discuss his application and inform him of 
any additional information or documentation it required.
HSBC says it didnt do this because Mr S had told it hed already opened an 
account with another bank and no longer wanted the account with it. Whilst this 
doesnt explain HSBCs failure to process his application when it reached the 
safeguarding team, I can see that Mr S sent an email to HSBC on 14 February 
2019. It said:I do not believe HSBC is the right bank for me anymore but I want HSBC 
to compensate me for my losses and mental stress.
Ive also listened to the telephone call on 27 February. During that call Mr S 
confirmed hed already opened an account with another bank the previous week. 
But he said he hadnt told HSBC he no longer wanted the account. And, he said he 
wanted HSBC to expedite his application.
HSBC told him hed need to speak to its safeguarding team if he still wanted the 
account. It said the earliest date for an appointment with that team was two weeks 
later. After that date the application would still have to go to the approvals team. 
So, it said it would probably be another month before the account could be opened.
Mr S wasnt happy about how long this would take. He said that what HSBC was 
offering wasnt acceptable to him. And, having thought about what Mr S said in 
the email of 14 February and during the phone call on 27 February, I can see 
why HSBC concluded he didnt want it to proceed with his application.
Ive carefully considered what HSBC has said about the delay in dealing with the 
application.
There was a delay before the application was first reviewed by HSBCs 
safeguarding team on 16 February. Its not clear what the reason for that delay 
was  but I can see that when HSBC spoke to Mr S on 27 February it told him 
thered be a further delay, of two weeks, before the safeguarding team could 
speak to him about his application.
Given that there were delays reviewing applications where additional due diligence 
was required, Id have expected HSBC to provide customers with an indication of 
the timeframes involved  especially because these timeframes were well outside 
of what it had indicated was possible on its website. Mr S has also made this point 
in his complaint to our service.
Id also have expected HSBC, on 16 February, when the safeguarding team first 
picked up the application, to have tried to contact Mr S by other means when it 
couldnt speak to him on the phone. I dont think it was fair or reasonable to decide 
to drop the application without making further efforts to contact Mr S. This is 
particularly so, when a review of its systems wouldve shown that by that date Mr S 
had already been trying to find out what was happening with his application.
HSBC had Mr Ss email address. So, I think it wouldve been good service to include 
in the email it sent him on 4 February, a message to explain that there was going to 
be a delay and that further information would be required. That mightve enabled Mr 
S to make an early decision about whether he needed to contact a different bank to 
open an account.
Mr S did make a decision to contact a different bank. He told HSBC on 14 February 
he didnt think HSBC was the right bank for him. And, he confirmed to HSBC on 27 
February that hed opened that new account about a week ago.
Having considered what HSBC and Mr S have said, Im satisfied HSBC did delay 
processing Mr Ss application. And, as mentioned above I think it provided him with 
very poor service when it didnt tell him that the application would take longer to 
process because of the referral to the safeguarding team.But, on balance, I think the reason why the application wasnt progressed, after 14 
February 2019, was because Mr S told HSBC hed made alternative arrangements 
and HSBCs process was going to take too long. And, thats why, in the end, the 
account wasnt opened.
Loss suffered as a result of HSBCs delay
Mr S told us he needed to have an operational bank account so that his salary 
could be paid into it by his employer. He says, because the account wasnt opened, 
he had to use his credit card for day to day expenses. He says hes incurred 
additional charges and currency exchange fees as a result of this.
As Ive stated above, HSBCs safeguarding team didnt action his application when 
it shouldve done. But it is the case that Mr Ss application had been referred to that 
team because it was identified as an application where additional due diligence was 
required. This wouldve required HSBC to discuss his application with him and may 
have required additional information or documentation to be provided.
Mr S was given conflicting information about how long this process usually took. 
He was initially told by the branch it would take 48 hours. He was then told by 
the branch it would take four to eight weeks. He was told during the call on 27 
February that because of the volume of referrals, the safeguarding team couldnt 
speak to him until mid-March, and it would be a few more weeks after that 
before the account would be opened.
Having thought about what HSBC has said, Im not persuaded on the balance of 
probabilities that even if the safeguarding team had actioned the referral when it 
received it, the account opening process wouldve been completed before 20 
February. For that reason, I agree with what our investigator said. There was no 
guarantee the account wouldve been opened within the timescale required by Mr 
S. But, as Ive mentioned above, that doesnt mean HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably when it didnt tell Mr S thered be a delay.
Mr S was able to open an account with another bank. He said hed opened that 
account around 20 February. Hes told us that that was too late for his first salary 
payment to be made on time. And, as a result, his first payment wasnt made to him 
until 5 March 2019. He says he had to use a credit card account hed held in his 
previous country of residence during this period. And, this meant he incurred 
additional charges such as costs associated with foreign exchange. Because of the 
passage of time, he hasnt been able to provide specific details of the costs he says 
he incurred.
This delay in being able to get his first salary payment needs to be considered in a 
context where Mr S and his family had only recently arrived in the UK. He had also 
commenced a new job. So, it was a particularly stressful time as he was trying to 
settle into a new country and a new job. Hes told us that because of the problems 
with HSBC he was also worried about how and when he was going to get his first 
salary payment  which he needed to help him pay for his set up costs in the UK. 
So, I can understand how the actions of HSBC, and the uncertainty those actions 
caused, wouldve added to the stress he was experiencing at this time.
In addition to the delays that happened here Mr S also received very poor service. 
He had to visit the branch several times, request unnecessary documentation from his employers  on two occasions, and then go through the process of opening a 
new bank account with another bank. He also had to contact HSBC on several 
occasions before it provided him with any explanation for what had happened. And, 
he wasnt given a clear explanation.
Conclusion
Given everything that happened here, I think it is fair and reasonable that HSBC 
should pay Mr S compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when it referred Mr Ss 
application to its safeguarding team. But, after that referral was made, as set 
out above it provided poor service. He was given incorrect information, 
experienced long delays and wasnt kept informed in a timely way about what 
was happening. As a result, Im satisfied this caused Mr S to experience 
significant distress and inconvenience. HSBC has accepted this and has 
recently increased its offer of compensation to £300.
When considering whats an appropriate level of compensation Ive taken into 
account the impact of HSBCs actions on Mr S. As Ive said hed just recently 
arrived in the UK with his family. He needed a bank account to have his salary paid 
to him. He had a reasonable expectation that this would take a few days to 
complete. But, despite making several phone calls and several visits to the branch 
he wasnt given the correct information about how long it would take or what he 
needed to do to expedite the matter.
Mr S hasnt been able to tell us exactly what additional banking charges he 
incurred. So, I havent been able to recommend an award of compensation for that. 
But I have taken the fact he had to use his credit card account, into consideration 
when determining what is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience, he experienced here. So, Ive provisionally decided that HSBC 
should pay Mr S £500 by way of compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint, in part, about HSBC UK Bank plc.
So, my provisional decision is that HSBC UK Bank plc should pay Mr S £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of the poor service he was 
provided with.
I dont intend to uphold any other part of Mr Ss complaint.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision. It said it accepted the decision and would pay 
£500 by way of compensation.
Mr S also responded. He didnt accept the provisional decision. He said:
oThere was insufficient evidence to support some of the points that had been 
made 
oHSBC staff had assured him that the dates he was targeting to have the 
account opened by could easily be met;
oThere was no evidence to say that his account opening request had gone 
through the risk assessment or that it was marked as high risk as a result 
of that process;oHe queried whether there was evidence to say that applications from 
other people, coming from the same country as him, had taken longer to 
process;
oHe thought HSBC should be referred to the central bank to be penalised 
because it hadnt trained its staff on Anti Money Laundering (AML) and 
Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures.
oBecause thered been multiple failures £500 was not enough to cause HSBC to 
change its processes and a higher penalty was required.
oHe didnt want financial benefit for himself  but wanted HSBC to make changes 
to its processes. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out, at the outset, that our role is not to fine or punish financial organisations or 
to require them to change their procedures. We are not the regulator. Our role is to resolve 
disputes based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an 
individual case.
In my provisional decision I said that, on balance, I was satisfied HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably when it referred Mr Ss application to its safeguarding team. Mr S says theres no 
evidence to show that his application had gone through the risk assessment process and 
that it had been classed as high risk.
Mr S has queried whether other applications from persons, coming from the same country as 
him, had taken longer to process. In this decision I can only consider how Mr Ss application 
was processed by HSBC and whether it applied its policies and processes fairly when 
dealing with his application. And, it is the case that HSBC takes account of a number of 
factors, not just the country that a person is coming from, when determining whether the 
application should be referred to its safeguarding team for additional due diligence checks.
Before issuing my provisional decision, I considered all of the information thatd been made 
available to me. This included a copy of Mr Ss application form, details about HSBCs 
internal procedures and notes about how Mr Ss application was processed by HSBC. 
I also considered the factors which the JMLSG guidance indicated could be taken into 
account when assessing whether additional due diligence was required for a new account. 
So, for example, I noted that at the time he made his application, Mr S had recently moved 
to the UK. He was not classed as domiciled in the UK prior to making the application. And 
when he made the online application, he didnt have a previous relationship with HSBC.
It was also the case that on Mr Ss application form he had given information about deposits 
he intended to make to the account. And the JMLSG guidance stated that this information 
could also be taken into account when assessing the risk level. 
I was satisfied, on the basis of the information and evidence provided, that HSBC assessed 
his application as high risk - which was why it was referred to the safeguarding team. And, 
having considered everything, I remain of the view that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
when, in line with its policies and procedures, it referred the application to its safeguarding 
team.As I said in my provisional decision, after the referral was made to its safeguarding 
team Mr S did experience poor service. He was given incorrect information, 
experienced long delays and wasnt kept informed in a timely way about what was 
happening. Thats why I thought HSBC should pay him £500 by way of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
I understand Mr S thinks HSBC should be fined or penalised for what happened. And, he 
thinks it should be referred to the central bank because of issues with how its trained its 
staff. But as Ive set out above, thats not our role. I have considered the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened to him. I remain of the view that 
£500 is fair and reasonable compensation for that.
So, having considered everything, I have not changed my view that for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision this complaint should be upheld, in part.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about HSBC UK Bank plc. I 
now require HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Pay Mr S £500 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of the poor service it provided to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman