DRN-3454900
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax cancelled his mortgage 
Standing Order.
What happened
Mr W says his mortgage Standing Order (SO) was cancelled by Halifax in February 2022. 
He says it was usually paid on the first of the month and realised on 7 February 2022 that it 
hadnt been paid. Mr W says the SO disappeared from his online banking and says Halifax 
told him he had cancelled the SO when he hadnt. He says the mortgage agreement 
requires him to pay interest on missed payments and that amount is increasing. Mr W would 
like Halifax to pay for that interest owed.
Halifax says its records show that Mr W set up the SO and amended it online on 24 
February 2021 to end in January 2022. It says that Mr Ws online address and password 
were used to make the amendment and that it sent Mr W a message to his mobile telephone 
on the same day to tell him the SO had been set up.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it likely Mr W had set up the SO end date as his online address and 
password were used. The investigator also thought Halifax had sent Mr W a message about 
the SO and so hadnt made a mistake.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he hasnt been asked for his screenshots. He 
maintains that he hasnt made a mistake and should not be responsible for the daily interest 
fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Halifaxs records about the SO and have considered what it says 
about Mr Ws online address and password being used to change the SO details. I cant see 
how the SO end date could have been set or amended without Mr Ws password and online 
security details being used and can see that Halifax told Mr W that at the outset of this 
complaint. I can also see from Halifaxs records that it sent Mr W a message on the same 
day about the SO which is recorded as delivered on those records. So, I think on balance 
that Mr W changed or set the SO details to end in January 2022. I accept that is not what he 
may have intended to do but equally I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for that. It follows 
that I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the SO not being paid in February 2022.
I appreciate Mr W says we have only considered Halifaxs records and that we have not 
considered his own screenshots. I dont think it clear what Mr W says those screenshots 
would show. And in any event, Im satisfied that Mr W hasnt provided us with them or any 
evidence from his own computer that it wasnt him that used online banking in February 
2021 when the SO end date was recorded.
I also appreciate Mr W says he didnt receive the message from Halifax on 24 February 
2021. Im satisfied the message was sent and to the correct telephone number.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I cant see any 
evidence that it incorrectly changed the SO end date and so I cant fairly order it to repay the 
interest Mr W says he owes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman