DRN-4127219
The complaint
Mr R complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) decision to decline 
his claim under his car insurance policy. 
Mr Rs complaint has been brought by a representative  who Ill refer to as Mrs R.  
What happened
Mr R was involved in a car accident for which he accepted responsibility. He made a claim to 
Admiral, but this was declined on the grounds that he was above the legal limit of alcohol. 
Mrs R complained about Admirals decision as she says no charge of drink driving was 
brought against Mr R. She also complained about the delay in progressing the claim and 
also about other issues relating to Admirals handling of the claim. Admiral responded and 
upheld Mrs Rs complaint about delays in the claim and the length of time to deal with the 
complaint. Admiral paid £125 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Admiral 
accepted there had been delay in updating Mr R about the third partys claim costs, but they 
said theyre unable to provide a total figure until the claim is concluded. 
In relation to the decision to decline the claim, they said, although Mr R wasnt convicted of a 
drink driving offence, theyve based their decision on the evidence provided by Mr R and the 
third party which confirms Mr R provided a breath reading at the scene which was above the 
legal limit and was subsequently arrested. Admiral say, for an insurer, the standard of proof 
required is lower than that of a court. They said a court will convict when the evidence is 
beyond reasonable doubt, whereas they consider evidence on the balance of probabilities. 
They said they believe on the balance of probabilities Mr R was over the prescribed limit of 
alcohol at the time of the accident. They said this means they wont deal with any damage to 
the car as a result of the accident. They also said their claims department may contact Mr R 
regarding any reimbursement of any costs they incur as a result of the third partys claim.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought Admiral hadnt acted unreasonably 
in declining the claim, and their compensation of £125 was fair. Mr R disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Claim decision
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions. Under a heading General conditions and sub-heading Drink and drugs clause it 
says, if an accident happens while any insured person is driving and is found to be over the 
legal limit for alcohol then No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your 
policy. 
Information provided by Admiral shows, when Mr R notified Admiral of the claim, he 
accepted fault for the accident and also confirmed the police were called to the scene and he 
was being charged with the offence of driving without due care and attention. Claim notes 
provided by Admiral show the third party claimed Mr R was arrested at the scene for drink 
driving. The claim notes show Admiral then spoke with Mr R and Mrs R and queried this. 
The notes say Mr R explained the only charge being brought is careless driving. Admiral 
asked about the roadside and station readings and Mr R explained he believes the roadside 
test produced a reading of 36 micrograms (mg) but the two station readings were 30mg. 
Admiral then requested a copy of the police report. Ive looked at the police report and this 
confirms the details of the parties involved in the accident and notes that Mr R was convicted 
of driving without due care and attention  but it doesnt refer to any breath test readings. 
The legal limit for alcohol is 35mg of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath. The police report 
doesnt specify what Mr Rs roadside breath reading was  and whether this was over the 
legal limit. So, Ive carefully considered the information I do have. Firstly, Mr R informed 
Admiral he believed he provided a reading of 36mg. Mrs R has provided a timeline of events 
in which she notes the reading as 37mg. Both of these readings are over the legal limit. 
Theres no dispute that Mr R was arrested for a drink driving offence and driving without due 
care and attention - and this is also consistent with the third partys testimony. Theres also 
no dispute that the police then carried out further breath tests at the police station. Mr R and 
Mrs R say these produced a reading of 30mg  which is below the legal limit. Im persuaded 
the police station readings were below the legal limit as Mr R wasnt then subsequently 
charged with any drink driving offences. That said, I do believe the roadside reading was 
above the legal limit on the basis of the testimony provided by Mr R, Mrs R, and the third 
party. Im further persuaded this was the case as I believe its fair and safe to conclude that, 
had the roadside breath reading been below the legal limit, then its unlikely the police 
wouldve asked Mr R to provide further breath specimens at the police station.    
While I accept no charges were brought against Mr R for any drink driving related offence, 
Mr R did still provide a reading at the roadside which was above the legal limit. I agree with 
Admirals point about the standard of proof being higher in criminal proceedings compared to 
civil proceedings  the latter being the standard of proof they use. And just because no 
charges were brought against Mr R for any drink driving offences this doesnt mean Admiral 
should disregard other information which shows evidence of a reading which is above the 
legal limit. 
I think Admiral have acted fairly in taking into account information from a range of sources 
and then applied an appropriate standard of proof to reach the view that, on the balance of 
probabilities, its more likely than not Mr R did provide a roadside breath reading above the 
legal limit. That being the case, I dont think their decision to decline the claim is 
unreasonable. And given that the terms and conditions allow them to cancel the policy in 
such circumstances, it follows that I dont think them cancelling the policy is unreasonable. 
I note Mrs R questions the accuracy of roadside breath testing and says its commonly 
known that there are issues with this method whereas the evidential breath testing which 
takes place at the police station is established as being more accurate  and this is why 
theyre used in a court of law. Mrs R says the balance of probabilities argument being used 
by Admiral isnt fair in the circumstances here due to the known margins of error in roadside 
breath testing devices. I can see Mrs R has also provided a Home Office guide to Breath 
Alcohol Screening Devices. I have carefully considered Mrs Rs points and the information she has provided but Im not persuaded Admiral have acted unfairly in taking the roadside 
breath reading into account. While I dont have detailed knowledge about the technical 
specifications which might make an evidential breath test more reliable than a roadside 
breath test, I dont believe that changes what I believe is fair and reasonable here. Roadside 
breath testing is an established procedure used by the police so I cant say Admiral should 
disregard the reading this produced. As mentioned above, I agree two later breath test 
readings were under the legal limit, but that doesnt change the fact that, at the scene of the 
accident, a roadside reading was produced which was above the legal limit.  
Premium refund  
I understand Mrs R says its unfair for Admiral to not reimburse any part of the premium 
despite cancelling the policy. I note Mrs R feels, at the very least, the refund should apply 
from the date the policy was cancelled. Mrs R says that a decision on the claim shouldve 
been made sooner and, had it been made earlier, then the cancellation would also have 
been applied earlier. Mrs R says they havent been able to benefit from the policy since the 
accident date so she feels theres an argument that Admiral should refund the premium from 
this date.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy sets out Admirals cancellation rights. This says 
Admiral can cancel a policy if you break any of the following General conditions It then 
lists the Drink and drugs clause as one of those conditions. This section then goes further 
to say, If a claim has been made during the period of insurance, you must pay the full 
premium and no refund will be given. Given that Admiral have cancelled the policy based on 
a breach of one of the listed conditions, and based on there being a claim, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Admiral to not provide a refund of the premium.   
Third party claim costs
I understand Mrs R is concerned that, despite Admiral informing Mr R they may contact him 
regarding any reimbursement of costs they incur as a result of the third partys claim, they 
havent updated Mr R or Mrs R on the position with this claim. 
The terms and conditions say, under the heading Right of recovery, If an incident occurs 
which is not covered by this policy and we are required by the law of any country to make a 
payment, we can recover that amount from you or any other insured person. Admiral have 
explained, while theyve declined to provide cover for the damage to Mr Rs car, they are 
obliged to deal with the third partys claim. And, in view of this policy term, its not 
unreasonable for them to seek recovery of any payment from the policyholder. Admiral 
accept there has been delay in providing Mr R with information about their outlay. But, they 
say theyre unable to provide a total figure until the cost of the total claim is completed. They 
say, once the claim is complete and the total cost is known, theyll be in contact to discuss 
this. So, taking this into account, while I acknowledge Mr R and Mrs R will want to know 
what the outlay is likely to be, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to wait until the total 
costs are known before informing Mr R. 
Claim delays and complaints handling     
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Admiral have admitted they 
got things wrong with delays in deciding how to proceed with the claim and delay caused in 
dealing with the complaint. The only issue I have to decide is whether their payment of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. I think its right that Admiral should compensate Mr R 
for the frustration and upset caused by their delays. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Admiral and what the 
impact of that error has been. 
The claim notes provided by Admiral show things couldve been progressed sooner. For 
example, Admiral acknowledged the need to have sight of the police report, but this doesnt 
appear to have been requested until over a month later. While I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to want to see this report, its clear there was delay caused by them 
in requesting this  and this led to Mr R being frustrated at the length of time things were 
taking.   
Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in 
line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we 
can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. 
In this case, I agree the issues which Mr R and Mrs R raise about the complaints handling  
in this case the delays caused by Admiral - are an extension of the issues which relate to 
regulated activities. I can see this caused further frustration and upset to Mr R. 
Taking this all into account, I think the £125 paid by Admiral is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr R and Mrs R, and Im sorry to hear about the impact this event 
has had, and continues to have, on Mr R. I wish to reassure Mr R and Mrs R Ive read and 
considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman