DRN-2861734
The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of P, a limited company, that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down 
a claim P made on its professional indemnity policy.    
What happened
In April 2019 Mr T became aware an employee of P had been committing fraud over a 
number of years leading to a significant loss. He contacted his broker in June and was 
advised a different broker was now dealing with the matter. Mr T contacted them and was 
told his insurance wouldnt cover what happened. 
In August Mr T contacted the original broker again. Following that he made a claim on the 
legal expenses section of his policy. That was unsuccessful because an insured event under 
that section hadnt take place. After receiving renewal information from his new broker Mr T 
had a further conversation with them on 24 October and was told he did have fidelity 
insurance cover. Mr T contacted Aviva the same day and provided written details of what 
happened the following month.  
Aviva turned down the claim because it said it was a condition precedent to liability that the 
circumstances giving rise to a claim should be reported in writing as soon as practicable. 
And that also needed to take place within the Period of Insurance. In this case it didnt think 
P had contacted it as soon as practicable and written notice wasnt provided until November 
2019 which was outside the relevant policy year. 
Our investigator accepted Aviva hadnt been told about what happened until 24 October. But 
even if that meant P was in breach of the notification condition he didnt think it was fair to 
turn down the claim because it hadnt shown the late notification caused it any prejudice. 
And Aviva was told about the circumstances within the relevant policy year. Although written 
notification wasnt provided until the following month our investigator wasnt persuaded Aviva 
had been prejudiced by that either. He thought it should consider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
P provided some further information on what led to the delay in Aviva being notified of the 
claim. But it agreed with the outcome our investigator reached. Aviva didnt agree. In 
summary it said:
P hadnt provided written notification of the circumstances that met the policy terms until 
15 November. That was outside of the relevant period of insurance and didnt meet the 
requirement to do so as soon as practicable. In addition, the contact in October 
contained no detail about what had happened such as information about the loss;
P hadnt met the terms of the policy and as this was a condition precedent to liability the 
question of whether Aviva had been prejudiced by this was irrelevant (with reference to 
section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015);
This was a commercial policy and Mr T was an experienced businessman who should 
have been aware of his responsibility to comply with the policy terms. It would be unfair 
to prevent Aviva from relying on the policy term in this case. And it thought his complaint 
should be directed against the broker who told him cover wasnt in place.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
First, I recognise P has a separate claim against the broker who advised it. But the complaint 
Im considering is against Aviva. So I need to consider whether it got anything wrong in 
considering the claim P made. In thinking about that Ive looked first at the terms and 
conditions of Ps policy. I can see P does have Professional Indemnity insurance and that 
section of the policy includes cover for:  
any loss of money or property owned by You (other than Employees money or property) as 
a result of any dishonest or fraudulent act committed by any Employee acting alone or in 
collusion with others with the intent to cause You to sustain the loss and to obtain Improper 
Gain, first discovered by You and notified to Us during the Period of Insurance
The total liability under this section is £50,000. The policy goes on to set out general 
conditions applying to claims under this section. It says if during the period of insurance you:
become aware of any circumstance that might give rise to a Claim, You shall give written 
notice to Us of such circumstance as soon as practicable. Any Claim subsequently arising 
from any circumstance notified to Us shall be deemed to have been made during the Period 
of Insurance in which the notice of such circumstance was first received by Us,
The policy says if the requirements imposed by the condition are not met then the 
policyholder will lose their right to indemnity or payment for the claim. It also says the written 
notice must be received during the Period of Insurance. Aviva says this is a condition 
precedent to liability meaning no cover will be provided if the term isnt met. And it says the 
question of prejudice is irrelevant when considering whether it should be applied. 
Ive thought first about whether its reasonable to regard this term as being a condition 
precedent. It isnt described as such in the policy whereas other conditions are specifically 
described in this way. I think if Aviva had wanted to make clear this was a condition 
precedent it could have described it in the same way. But I also accept that while labelling is 
important it isnt always determinative and the term in this case does have the features 
normally associated with a condition precedent
However, even if it is reasonable to regard it as such, I dont think that affects the outcome of 
this complaint. I accept Mr T was clearly aware of circumstances that might give rise to a 
claim in April because thats when he became aware of the fraud by Ps employee. But the 
term doesnt require him to tell Aviva about that immediately; the requirement is as soon as 
practicable. Theres no further definition within the policy of what that means so Ive thought about what a 
reasonable interpretation of that would be. I think it would be fair to say it means Aviva 
should be told as soon as that could reasonably be done (taking into account all relevant 
circumstances). In this case Mr T contacted his broker in June 2019. I appreciate that was 
two months after he became aware of the fraud but Mr T has explained during this period he 
was dealing with the significant loss of a large sum of money from P which threatened its 
future, was at the same time dealing with the police and had taken on extra responsibilities 
at the business to ensure its survival. 
Given that I think notification in June 2019 would reasonably have met the as soon as 
practicable test. I recognise Mr T didnt contact Aviva at that time but he says thats 
because he was told he didnt have cover for what happened. Aviva says as an experienced 
businessman Mr T should be aware of the terms of his policy. But while Mr T may well be 
experienced in business that doesnt mean hes an expert on insurance which is presumably 
why he contacted his broker for advice. Im not sure why Mr T would then have contacted 
Aviva having been explicitly told cover wasnt in place for the claim he wanted to make. And 
immediately after he was given correct information he did contact Aviva. I think it likely he 
would have done so earlier if hed been told that from the outset. On that basis, and taking 
into account the relevant circumstances, Im not persuaded P was in breach of the term to 
notify as soon as practicable. 
However, Aviva also says the October notification wasnt in writing, contained no details of 
the loss and when written notice was provided this fell outside the relevant policy year which 
is also a breach of the term. I accept the policy requires that written notice must be received 
during the Period of Insurance. Thats defined in this section of the policy as from the 
effective date until the expiry date shown in The Schedule. The expiry date in the relevant 
schedule was 27 October and while P did contact Aviva prior to that date written notification 
of the claim wasnt provided until the following month. So regardless of the requirement to 
notify as soon as reasonably practicable P is in breach of this condition of the policy. And the 
policy says cover wont be provided if this condition isnt met. 
But that isnt the only issue I need to consider. I understand the legal position as it applies to 
a condition precedent and what the Insurance Act says about this. However, our remit is 
wider than that and requires me to also take into account whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Aviva says the issue of whether prejudice has been caused by the delay 
is irrelevant. That might be the strict legal position but I think the question of whether Aviva 
has been caused prejudice by any late notification is relevant when considering whats fair 
and reasonable.
In thinking about that I do appreciate Aviva would want to know about a potential claim at an 
early stage so it could have some control over what then happens and any liability it might 
be responsible for. But in this case the loss caused to P had already taken place at the point 
Mr T became aware of it in April 2019. No further loss took place following that because the 
employee in question had no further access to Ps financial systems (and was subsequently 
arrested). 
That liability is in any case capped by the policy at £50,000. I dont see any earlier reporting 
of the claim would have made a difference to the position here. And Aviva was told about 
what happened within the relevant policy year. It says that October notification contained no 
details of the loss but the requirement in the policy is to give notice of any circumstances 
that might give rise to a Claim. Theres no requirement for this to detail what losses have 
actually been incurred. I also note the email Aviva sent Mr T following his call to it in October asked him for further 
information about what had happened and noted he was currently dealing with the renewal 
of his policy. However, it didnt provide any timeframe by which a response needed to be 
made or make any reference to the need for written notification to take place within the 
relevant policy year.
If Mr T had sent an email with the same information he provided over the phone in October 
2019 in my view that would have met the requirements of the policy. I dont see how Avivas 
position has been adversely affected because P didnt provide written confirmation of what 
happened until two weeks later. And despite a number of requests Aviva hasnt provided any 
other information to demonstrate how its position has been prejudiced by this.
So theres no basis on which I could reasonably conclude it has. I think Aviva would have 
been able to consider the claim in the same way when it received written notification as it 
would if it had been reported in writing in October 2019 (or prior to that). So I dont think its 
fair, in the particular circumstances of this case, for Aviva to reject the claim on that basis 
given its position hasnt been prejudiced by any breach of the notification clause 
Putting things right
Aviva will need to reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman