DRN-3455496
The complaint
F, a limited company, represented by its director, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) continued to communicate with it using a method of contact it had requested 
HSBC not to use.
What happened
HSBC contacted F about arrears on its account with them.
F complained to HSBC about the number of calls, text messages and emails it received 
about the arrears it has with them. F believes any arrears on its account was as a result of 
how HSBC managed the account.
F says it is unwilling to communicate with HSBC over the phone or by text message, and 
only by face to face meetings or post. F says it issued a legal notice to HSBC in January 
2021 informing them why it would not communicate with them by phone or text message. It 
says it asked HSBC to remove its number from their systems.
F believes HSBC hasnt followed this notice as it continued to receive calls, texts and emails 
instructing it to contact HSBC. F complained to HSBC and referred its complaint to our 
service as it believes it should receive compensation for being contacted.
HSBC say Fs preferences on its business profile is text message and email and no 
telephone contact. They say they sent messages to F each time a card payment had been 
missed and they did not receive responses to these. As a result, the balance on the card 
remained outstanding, but Fs business account had been closed due to dormancy.
HSBC also say that the director representing F has requested phone calls to stop on their 
own personal profile. But in this instance, as F is a separate legal entity, they cant see that a 
specific instruction was made by F to remove its contact number.
In June 2021, HSBC emailed Fs director and asked whether the mobile number associated 
with Fs account should also be removed.
Our investigator found that HSBC had followed their processes correctly and acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Fs account. She explained that Fs contact 
preferences were set to emails and text messages and that she couldnt see a request for no 
contact by phone or text message was received on its business account. She explained 
having looked at the communication HSBC had sent to F, it was in line with its recorded 
contact preferences.
F disagreed with the investigators view and the complaint was referred to an ombudsman to 
make a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. There are aspects of 
Fs complaint I havent commented on  and thats deliberate. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair 
outcome. What follows are my comments on what I believe to be the main points to resolve 
this complaint in a fair way. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
HSBCs business banking terms say that they will contact their customer and provide notices 
by using the most recent address, email address, telephone and mobile number given to 
them.
HSBC has shown me an internal memo which suggests F contacted them in October 2019 
explaining it didnt want to receive any phone calls. However, the same memo says that F 
didnt go through verification and it is unlikely the changes were successfully made. HSBC 
also say they hadnt received a legal notice from F in January 2021 in relation to calls and 
text messages.
From what I have seen, it is likely that any request made to not be contacted by phone has 
been made by Fs director in their personal capacity, rather than in its separate legal entity, 
as F. So, I cant fairly say HSBC is at fault in the way they have communicated with F. HSBC 
communicated with F in line with its recorded contact preferences. It just so happens that Fs 
contact details are also those of Fs director in their personal capacity.
F is also unhappy that HSBC has requested it to call them, rather than giving another option 
for it to contact HSBC. While some messages from HSBC has only suggested for F to call 
them, I note that F has told our service that it has visited a HSBC branch on at least one 
occasion. And Ive also noted that some previous letters sent to F for payments due, also 
suggest it can visit a local branch to make the payments. So, while there is an argument to 
say that HSBC should have given F other options to get in contact with them, I also think 
there is an argument to suggest F ought to have reasonably been aware there were other 
ways it could contact HSBC.
If F would like confirmation of its contact preferences with HSBC, or would like to amend 
them, it should get in touch with HSBC directly.
F has told our service that it is awaiting information to provide to us. However, I think I have 
enough information already to reach a decision on this complaint. It is also worth noting that 
F is a separate legal entity to the director that runs it. It isnt within my remit to ask HSBC to 
compensate the director or shareholder personally, or for them to pay F for any distress 
theyve incurred personally.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman