DRN-3414498
The complaint
Ms W complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
held her at fault following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants the claim 
recorded as non-fault and an apology. 
What happened
Ms W was involved in a collision with another driver. Ms W said the other driver had been in 
the wrong lane. But the other driver said he had swerved to avoid directly hitting Ms W and 
so had hit her passenger side wing. NFU held Ms W to be liable before it received her 
evidence. But this didnt later change its decision. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought NFU 
had investigated the claim reasonably and decided to accept liability on Ms Ws behalf, as it 
was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
Ms W replied providing further explanations of what had happened. She thought NFU had 
offered to help the other driver without questioning him about the collision. She said she had 
spoken to the other driver and he had confirmed that he was speeding at the time and on the 
wrong side of the road. Ms W said NFU had assumed that the other driver had swerved to 
avoid her. She provided information that she said showed the collision couldnt have 
occurred as NFU said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms W is adamant that she wasnt at fault for the accident. I can also see that 
she has an excellent driving record and I can understand she feels frustrated that she is 
being held liable for the collision. 
Ms W has provided detailed descriptions of the accident circumstances. But the Investigator 
has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Ms W 
the same as someone else in her position. 
Im satisfied that NFU is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms W to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms W has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
I can see that NFUs agent decided from Ms Ws description of the event that she would be 
held liable for the accident. This was before Ms Ws photographs at the scene had been 
viewed. NFU accepted that it should have waited to accept liability until Ms W had provided 
her evidence. And it apologised for this.  
But NFU said this error hadnt made any difference to the claim outcome. From its file I can 
see that it reviewed Ms Ws version of events and the photographs she sent in two days 
after the accident. And it still thought it would have to accept liability. So I cant say that 
NFUs early decision caused Ms W any prejudice. 
There were no independent witnesses and CCTV and dashcam footage wasnt available. 
NFU reviewed the damage to the vehicles and images of the scene of the accident. It 
thought it wouldnt be able to defend the matter successfully if it went to court. And so NFU 
accepted liability on Ms Ws behalf. 
Ms W said the other driver had told her that he was speeding and on the wrong side of the 
road. But unfortunately this wasnt confirmed by an independent witness. And the other 
driver hadnt told NFU or his insurer this. So this isnt evidence that NFU should consider. 
So I think NFU reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making its decision on liability. I think it reasonably reviewed the claim several times 
when Ms W complained, but this didnt change its decision. I think its entitled to decide to 
accept liability on behalf of Ms W this by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that 
NFU has done anything wrong or needs to investigate the claim further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman