DRN-2262020
The complaint
Mrs G complains that the Co-Operative Bank PLC trading as Britannia shared her personal 
information when they shouldnt have, and that they didnt recall it. 
What happened
Mrs G opened two Britannia Manchester United Junior Savings accounts in 2005. She 
named a child beneficiary on each account, but Mrs G was the only signatory. In 2009 she 
withdrew the money and closed the accounts. In April 2019 the beneficiaries made 
complaints that the accounts were closed without their knowledge.
 
Britannias terms and conditions said they didnt have to investigate a complaint about a 
payment if they were told about it more than 13 months after the payment was made. But on 
this occasion Britannia agreed to look in to the beneficiaries complaints. On 25 April 2019 
Britannia sent information to the beneficiaries about the accounts - they enclosed a copy of 
Mrs Gs original application form. The application form included personal information about 
her.
 
In November 2019 Mrs G complained to Britannia that theyd disclosed her personal 
information without her consent  and that their staff were vague and wouldnt justify their 
refusal to answer her questions about this. She wanted to know what restrictions or warnings 
Britannia placed on the use of her personal information when they shared it, and what theyd 
done to restrict any further use of it. 
In December 2019 Britannia responded to Mrs Gs complaint saying theyd done nothing 
wrong by sending the information to the beneficiaries. But Britannia agreed their customer 
service fell below the standard they would expect when she raised a query  they offered her 
£75 as an apology for this. Mrs G was unhappy with this response - she returned Britannias 
cheque. 
Mrs G also complained to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). In June 2020 the 
ICO gave its view on what had happened - they said Britannia hadnt complied with data 
protection laws. This was because they retained Mrs Gs personal information for longer 
than they needed to and didnt keep it secure. 
One of our investigators looked in to things for Mrs G. He agreed Britannia were wrong to 
disclose her personal information, but he didnt think there was any way that they could 
recall it. Our investigator thought Mrs G should receive £150 compensation for the distress 
shed been caused. 
Mrs G felt our investigator hadnt fully looked in to all aspects of her complaint, in particular  
that Britannia hadnt complied with their own terms and conditions by allowing her to 
open these accounts when she didnt claim to be the childrens parent, guardian or 
grandparent
Britannia hadnt complied with their own terms and conditions by looking into the 
beneficiaries complaints more than 13 months after she withdrew the money from 
the accounts.
The case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator in this case. I can see Mrs G didnt 
think hed properly considered all the issues, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
These accounts were specifically designed for childrens savings. Britannia set up the two 
accounts with Mrs G as signatory, naming the children as the intended beneficiaries. Im not 
going to look in to whether Britannia should have allowed Mrs G to open these accounts, 
because she hasnt raised this with the business.
Mrs G is unhappy that Britannia didnt follow their own terms and conditions by agreeing to 
investigate the beneficiaries complaints more than nine years after the accounts were 
closed. Im not able to comment on the way Britannia handled those complaints  but for 
completeness Id say that I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of Mrs Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Britannia has a duty to consider the interests of all their customers. Their decision to 
investigate the beneficiaries complaints didnt change Britannias duty to follow data 
protection laws in the way they handled Mrs Gs personal information. 
I can see Mrs G feels very strongly that Britannia shouldnt have been holding personal 
information about her over nine years after she closed her accounts with them. Its not our 
role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats something the ICO 
decides. In this case the ICO decided Britannia were wrong to share Mrs Gs personal data 
in the way that they did, and that Britannia had retained the information for longer than 
necessary.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to punish a business for getting something 
wrong  thats not something we can do. Our role is to consider whether its fair and 
reasonable to tell the business to pay compensation - or take some other action - because of 
the impact of what went wrong for the customer. Mrs G wanted Britannia to recall the 
personal information they had wrongly disclosed and be responsible for the financial 
consequences if its used or misused fraudulently. I agree with the investigator that there 
isnt any meaningful way that Britannia can take that information back now, nor is there any 
indication of the likelihood of it being used inappropriately in the future.
Mrs G was entitled to receive answers to her questions about the disclosure of her personal 
information. Although Ive seen no evidence that the staff were rude or dismissive, I 
understand that having to make her enquiry several times would have been frustrating for 
Mrs G. Britannia have acknowledged that their customer service fell below what theyd 
expect here. Ive also carefully considered what Mrs G has told us about the effect 
Britannias wrongful disclosure of her personal information has had on her - that it led to a 
distressing and stressful situation between herself and the beneficiaries. I agree that 
Britannia should compensate her for the distress shes been caused. 
Putting things rightI understand Mrs G feels very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. But Im not 
persuaded on the evidence Ive seen that a higher amount of compensation would be 
appropriate here. So, although I know Mrs G will be disappointed with this decision, I find a 
total sum of £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for Britannias wrongful disclosure of 
her personal information and poor customer service.  
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint, and I direct the Co-Operative Bank PLC to pay Mrs G £150 
compensation for the distress shes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman