DRN-3961598
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts without notice or 
explanation, and held on to the closing balance held within them.
What happened
Mr A was a longstanding customer of Barclays, holding a personal current account and 
savings account as well as a personal loan with the bank. 
In addition to his personal accounts with the bank, Mr A also had a relationship with Barclays 
in his capacity as director of a company (which Ill refer to as M). M held a business current 
account with Barclays.
Following a review of its relationship with Mr A, Barclays decided to withdraw its services 
from him and his company in October 2020. The bank wrote to Mr A on 16 October to advise 
that all his accounts had been closed with immediate effect. The personal loan wasnt 
affected. The banks actions in relation to Ms account are the subject of a separate 
complaint.
At the time of their closure, Mr As current account had a debit balance of around £1370 and 
his savings account had a credit balance of around £2290. Barclays transferred the savings 
balance to the current account, leaving a closing balance of just under £880 due to Mr A. 
Mr A complained to Barclays about the closure of his accounts, of which the bank had given 
no notice or explanation, and that the bank hadnt yet released the money hed held with it. 
In response, Barclays said it wasnt possible to provide its rationale but was satisfied that its 
decision was correct. The bank also said it was entitled to close an account at any time in 
line with the terms and conditions. And it said that the closing balance had only been 
retained until 21 October, when they were released to Mr A after he visited a branch. But the 
bank accepted that it shouldve given Mr A notice of its decision to close his accounts, so 
that he could make alternative arrangements. It offered £200 by way of apology.
Mr A didnt accept Barclays offer, so he referred his complaint to us. He said the bank hadnt 
actually released the account balance to him, despite his various attempts to obtain it. He 
also said the immediate closure of his accounts and retention of his money left him 
struggling to cover essential expenditure for a couple of months, including his personal loan 
with Barclays that had in turn impacted his credit rating. And all of this, he said, had taken a 
toll on his health and relationship.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. While she didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong in deciding to withdraw its services, she thought it ought to have given more 
notice to Mr A so that he could make alternative arrangements. And she found that Barclays 
hadnt released the closing balance to Mr A as it had suggested when responding to his 
complaint. So to put things right, she recommended that Barclays provide the closing 
balance to Mr A along with 8% interest for the period hed been without it. She also 
suggested that the bank pay Mr A an additional £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors (on the basis that its initial offer of £200 was sufficient 
only to cover the inconvenience caused to Mr As company).
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr A didnt. He maintained that 
the bank had acted unfairly in closing his accounts immediately without explaining why, 
particularly in view of his longstanding relationship with it. He also said he had to borrow 
money from friends and family to get by, and he didnt think that the proposed compensation 
award fairly reflected the impact that the matter had on him. And so with no resolution, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, in which I set out why I thought Barclays needed 
to do more to put things right. I said:
Following a review of its relationship with Mr A, Barclays decided to withdraw its banking 
services from him. That was a decision it was entitled to make and Ive not seen 
anything that suggests it was unreasonable. 
I understand Mr A is unhappy that Barclays hasnt shared the reasons for its decision. 
But there is no requirement for it to do so. Such decisions are subject to some legitimate 
confidentiality, and I cant fairly compel the bank to share any more information about its 
decision than it already has. All I can do is reassure Mr A that Barclays has explained 
and evidenced its rationale to us and  having reviewed this  I dont think the bank 
reached its decision incorrectly or unreasonably.
However, although the terms and conditions of Mr As accounts gave Barclays the 
power to close them without notice once the bank had reached its decision, Im not 
persuaded that it was reasonable to do so in the circumstances here. And Barclays has 
already accepted as much. Instead of closing Mr As accounts immediately, the bank 
ought to have given him at least the two months notice provided for within the terms 
and conditions. 
Barclays made a further error in failing to release the closing balance to Mr A. It was 
entitled to apply the credit balance in the savings account to repay the debit balance on 
the current account. But the remaining amount ought to have been made available to Mr 
A immediately thereafter. It seems the bank was initially asking Mr A to provide proof of 
his entitlement to the funds, which doesnt seem to have been warranted in the 
circumstances. Barclays then made a further mistake when advising Mr A that it had 
already released the money to him, when in fact it still held the funds (and has continued 
to do so).
Ive thought about how Mr A has been impacted by Barclays errors. Its hard for me to 
assess the effect of the immediate closure of the account, as Mr A hasnt confirmed 
when he managed to open a new account. It seems he opened one for his company 
within a week, so I assume he did the same for himself. From what Ive seen, then, it 
doesnt look like the account being closed immediately  rather than with two months 
notice  had a significant impact on Mr A. He would have always had to open a new 
account, and make arrangements for his direct debits and the like. But I can appreciate 
that it wouldve been more stressful and inconvenient to have to make such 
arrangements without notice, so its right that hes compensated for the trouble and 
upset this caused  which Ill come on to below.
Rather, it seems to me that the bigger impact came from Barclays failure to release the 
account balance to Mr A. This means that Mr A has been unfairly deprived of the use of these funds, for which it is right that he is compensated. Our usual approach to 
problems like this is to award 8% interest on the amount in question for the period that 
the funds were unavailable. Barclays has agreed to pay this, and I think it should do so. 
Mr A says that he suffered other financial losses as a direct result of Barclays errors. He 
says he had to borrow money from friends and family to get by and that, in the 
meantime, he was unable to pay certain bills  including his loan with Barclays  that 
meant he incurred additional charges and interest.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said and provided in this respect, but I dont think 
many of the amounts hes claiming are losses. The money he borrowed from friends 
and family isnt a loss  as its money he had the benefit of, and I cant see that hes 
incurred any extra costs in borrowing the money in this way. Mr A has also itemised 
some bills that he says he was unable to pay for a couple of months after Barclays 
closed his account, meaning his direct debit instructions failed. But those are amounts 
that he would always have had to pay  and so none of these are losses either. 
The only losses would be any additional charges he incurred for paying these 
commitments late. In that respect, I can see only one late payment charge of £7.50 that 
he incurred. I think this was most likely a result of Barclays errors  in that, had the 
bank not held on to Mr As funds, he wouldve made this payment on time. So I think it 
would be fair for Barclays to reimburse him for this. 
Ive also looked at the impact of these matters on Mr As personal loan with Barclays, 
which hed been paying by direct debit. A payment was successfully made on 1 October 
2020, but then no payments were made until 30 December 2020  when Mr A made a 
payment to bring the account up to date. I can see from statements for the loan account 
that this meant Mr A incurred some additional interest. While it remained Mr As 
responsibility to ensure he made the required payments on time, I can see how the 
immediate closure of his account (and therefore the termination of the direct debit 
instruction) and withholding of his funds wouldve made this very difficult. So given the 
circumstances, I think Barclays should remove the additional interest that Mr A incurred 
as a result of the late payments to the loan in November and December 2020, and 
ensure that he is not charged anything more in respect of these missed payments 
moving forward either. It should also instruct the removal of any record with credit 
reference agencies of these two payments having been made late.
Mr A also says that the issues with Barclays and the stress they caused led directly to 
the breakup of his relationship and that, in turn, he was left with sole responsibility for 
the payment of rent under what had been a shared tenancy agreement. While Im sorry 
to see the difficulties that he and his partner went through, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence for me to say that the banks actions were a significant factor in causing them. 
So I dont think it would be fair for Barclays to compensate Mr A for the consequences of 
this.
Finally, Ive considered the distress and inconvenience that these matters have caused 
Mr A. As I noted above, it wouldve been stressful to find that his account (and the funds 
held within it) were being removed immediately  and to have to find alternative 
arrangements without notice. I can also appreciate that it isnt always easy to approach 
family or friends with a request for financial help, even as a loan. And Mr A also had to 
raise a complaint and refer it on to us, just to get access to money that belonged to him. 
Taking this, along with everything Ive said above, into account, I also think it would be 
fair for Barclays to pay Mr A compensation of £300.Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr A didnt respond with any further comments, 
but did send me a copy of the statement for his loan account and asked that I take this into 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with any new information or evidence to take into account 
following my provisional decision. While Mr A did send me a statement of his loan account, 
Id already reviewed a copy of this  having obtained one from Barclays  prior to issuing my 
provisional decision. So Id already taken the activity on that account into consideration when 
making my provisional decision, and setting out what I thought Barclays needed to do in 
order to remedy the impact of its errors on Mr As loan.
With nothing new for me to consider, Ive not seen any reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. So this final decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr A the closing account balance of £878.87 and £7.50 by way of 
reimbursement for a late payment fee incurred with a third-party service provider;
Calculate interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on £878.87 from 16 October 2020 
until the date of settlement and pay this amount to Mr A;
Remove the additional interest charge applied to Mr As loan account due to the late 
payment of instalments due in November and December 2020 and, if necessary, 
rework the loan so as to ensure Mr A doesnt incur any additional interest as a result 
of these late payments moving forward; 
Instruct the removal of any adverse information registered with credit reference 
agencies regarding the late payment of instalments due in November and December 
2020; and
Pay Mr A compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman