DRN-3479382
The complaint
Mr R says NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that the 
interest and late payment charges he paid on the account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account, trading as Marbles, provided by NewDay to 
Mr R. The account was opened in April 2019 with Mr R being given an initial credit limit of 
£450. This limit was increased twice; in May 2021 it rose to £1450 and it reached £2450 in 
September 2021.  
Mr R says hes unhappy that NewDay continued to increase his credit limit on the account 
when he was in financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought that NewDay ought to have 
realised that Mr R wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on the account 
by the time it offered Mr R the increased credit limit in May 2021, when it increased Mr Rs 
credit limit to £1450. NewDay asked to see some of the evidence the adjudicator relied on. 
That was supplied and NewDay has not made any further submission on the case. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought NewDay was reasonable in 
providing credit initially in April 2019 of £450. I agree. I say that because the initial lending 
was modest and so would have been the monthly payments for it. Mr R told NewDay he 
had a regular employed income. And whilst there was a default in Mr Rs credit history, it 
had occurred over 2 years before the lending decision in 2019. 
Our adjudicator explained why NewDay shouldnt have provided Mr R with any additional 
credit in May 2021 when the credit limit was increased to £1450. I agree with the 
adjudicators findings.  
Mr R has been able to provide us with copies of his bank statements covering the period 
he had the account. But given the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, based on the 
information Mr R and NewDay has given, I think that a point was reached by May 2021, 
when NewDay increased Mr Rs total credit limit to £1450, which ought to have prompted 
NewDay to realise further credit as likely to be unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mr R. 
I say this because proportionate affordability checks would have likely shown NewDay 
that Mr R was by that time having difficulty managing his money. Although Mr R hasnt 
provided his credit report, he has provided bank statements for much of 2021, and these 
have been shared with NewDay. These statements show repayments to several short-
term lenders in the months leading up to the increase of the credit limit in May 2021. Mr 
R was regularly borrowing money from high cost lenders, this ought to have indicated it 
was likely he was overly reliant on borrowing and that further borrowing may not have 
been sustainable. That means he was likely unable to reduce the increasing debt on the 
account whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit 
commitments. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown NewDay that Mr R was in 
difficulty with managing his account alongside his other debts and day-to-day living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit limits 
could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr R lost out because NewDay provided him with further credit 
from 1 January 2019 onwards. In my view, NewDays actions unfairly prolonged Mr Rs 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that NewDay should put things right.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Rs credit limit to £1,450 on 1 May 2021, 
I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded 
the previous limit of £450. However, Mr R has had the benefit of all the money he spenton the account, so I think he should pay this back. NewDay should:
Rework Mr Rs account to ensure that from 1 May 2021 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £450, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay should contact Mr R to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr R has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file 
from 1 May 2021 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file from 1 May 
2021 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman