DRN-3717163
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) removed funds from 
his account after receiving a fraud claim.
Mr Ss complaint was brought by a representative. As the account is held in Mr Ss name, Ill 
refer to Mr S throughout the decision.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr S received a payment of £500 into his account from a party Ill refer to as 
G. Then, in June 2021, Halifax received a fraud claim from Gs bank. 
Halifax placed a block on Mr Ss account while they carried out a fraud investigation. As part 
of their investigation Halifax contacted Mr S and asked the reason the funds were paid into 
his account. Mr S told Halifax that the funds were a gift from G. Mr S also shared some wider 
information about the personal circumstances of his relationship with G, which he believed 
was the reason the fraud claim was raised. As a result of their investigation, Halifax debited 
the £500 from Mr Ss account and returned it to Gs bank.
Mr S raised a complaint with Halifax, saying the fraud claim wasnt genuine and asking them 
to return the money to his account. Halifax told Mr S theyd made the correct decision to 
return the funds to Gs bank, so wouldnt be refunding him the £500. Also, that theyd acted 
appropriately in placing a block on his account while they carried out their fraud 
investigation. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. They recommended that Halifax 
refund Mr S the £500, saying the matter was a civil dispute between the parties rather than a 
genuine fraud claim  so Halifax shouldnt have removed the money from Mr Ss account. 
The investigator also recommended that Halifax pay Mr S £200 compensation for the 
distress he was caused.
Halifax agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr S disagreed saying Halifax had accused him of acting fraudulently.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
Having reviewed the case I noted that the investigator hadnt recommended that interest be 
paid on the £500 for the time it was out of Mr Ss account. This is what we would usually 
recommend, so I contacted Halifax and asked if they would pay interest on the £500 refund 
at the applicable account interest rate, calculated from the date the funds left Mr Ss account 
until the date the funds were returned. We havent had a response from Halifax, so Ive 
proceeded to review the case in full as this recommendation is in line with our approach 
more broadly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Halifax have taken the £500 from Mr Ss account?
On receiving a fraud claim from Gs bank, Halifax placed a block on Mr Ss account while 
they investigated the claim. Im satisfied that Halifax acted reasonably in placing the block as 
they wanted to secure the funds, in case they upheld the claim and sent the money back. As 
part of their investigation Halifax talked to Mr S to find out why the funds had been paid into 
his account. Based on the information that Mr S gave them, Im not satisfied that Halifax 
acted fairly in taking the £500 out of Mr Ss account. I say this because the information they 
were given clearly indicated that the funds were part of a civil dispute between the parties 
involved.
As Im not satisfied that Halifax shouldve taken the funds out of Mr Ss account, they should 
refund Mr S the £500. Halifax should also pay interest on this refund at the applicable 
account interest rate, from the date the funds left Mr Ss account until the date they were 
returned. Ive recommended that Halifax pay interest at the account interest rate as it seems 
most likely that the funds wouldve remained in Mr Ss account if they hadnt been returned 
to Gs bank.
The impact of Halifaxs actions on Mr S
The investigator recommended Halifax pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress caused 
by them returning the funds to Gs bank. Mr S says £200 doesnt adequately address the 
distress he has been caused, saying the bank accused him of acting fraudulently.
In considering what is the appropriate level of compensation, I cant fine or punish Halifax. 
Also, I cant make an award against Halifax based on the distress caused by G raising a 
fraud claim, or Gs bank in passing the fraud claim to Halifax. From what Ive seen Mr Ss 
account was used as a savings account and no withdrawals had been made in the five 
months before  so its difficult to say that Mr S was significantly impacted by not having 
access to the £500 that was returned to Gs bank.
I realise that Mr S is going to be disappointed as he wanted a higher level of compensation. 
But, having considered everything very carefully, Im satisfied that the £200 recommended 
by the investigator is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should:
Refund Mr S the £500, if they havent already done so.
Pay interest on that refund at the applicable account interest rate, calculated from the 
date the funds were removed from Mr Ss account until the date theyre returned.
Pay Mr S £200 in compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax and require them to compensate Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman