DRN-4153642
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society after 
experiencing difficulties setting up a joint account with her mother.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Earlier this year Mrs K set up a joint account with her mother. But she experienced a 
number of difficulties doing so and is unhappy with the way she was treated by a 
member of branch staff and the way her related complaint was handled.
Nationwide apologised for some of the problems Mrs K had experienced and offered her 
a total of £70 compensation. But Mrs K felt her concerns had not been well-handled and 
so referred a complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the society had done enough, overall, to put things right. But 
Mrs K disagreed and so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate Mrs Ks strength of feeling, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Nationwide has done enough already to put things right. I say this having 
taken the following into account.
There is no recording of the second call that took place between Mrs K and the branch 
manager and their individual recollections and opinion of that call differ. The managers 
notes indicate she felt Mrs K was very angry toward her, talked over her and used a 
threatening tone. Mrs K has explained why she felt the manager was unprofessional in a 
number of ways over the course of two phone calls (including not putting her on hold, and 
terminating the call without warning) and she suggests the manager should have been more 
resilient, given her position. 
Without a recording of the second call I cant fairly say whether, or to what extent, I think 
either party acted unreasonably. But I do think its good practice to warn customers before 
calls are terminated, and I can see no reference in the managers notes which suggests she 
gave such a warning. On that point, I see Nationwide explained in one of its letters to Mrs K 
that it would usually expect a warning to be given before a call is terminated and feedback 
would be given to the manager about this. So I think Nationwide took Mrs Ks concerns 
seriously and took appropriate action.
I appreciate Mrs K is unhappy with some of the apologies Nationwide has offered, 
specifically that these include caveats. But I dont think it was wrong of the society to try to 
explain its stance and I dont consider this means the apologies were insincere. I dont think 
its appropriate to instruct it to offer a new, revised apology now. I say this, also, because I 
cant see that an apology which I instruct Nationwide to make will be any more sincere or 
meaningful than the apologies it has already voluntarily made.
Im pleased the second branch manager was able to promptly help Mrs K set up the 
account. And I agree with her that it was right for him to step outside the usual process, 
given the difficulties shed already experienced. Despite Mrs Ks concerns, I think Nationwide 
also agrees that this was the right thing to do and it wasnt seeking, in its explanation, to 
suggest otherwise.
Having considered everything that has happened I think the explanations and apologies 
Nationwide has given overall, along with the £70 offer of compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
I hope that Mrs K wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I havent addressed each and 
every one of her points directly. I have considered everything shes said and provided in 
order to reach my overall decision, but have concentrated on the main issues and what I 
believe to be the crux of the complaint. If I havent commented specifically on a particular 
point, that doesnt mean I havent considered it.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £70 to settle the complaint 
and I think that was fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay a total of £70 compensation 
to Mrs K, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman