DRN-2486901
The complaint
Mr J complains the Leeds Building Society didnt provide advance notice that his Individual 
Savings account (ISA) was due to mature. As a result, the matured funds only earned 
minimal interest until Mr J realised the problem. 
What happened
Mr J held a fixed rate ISA which matured at midnight on 5 May 2020. 
He says he called Leeds a few months before May 2020 to see what needed to be done 
upon maturity and that he told that he would receive some communication from Leeds a few 
weeks prior to maturity to explain what the next steps were.
But Mr J says that he didnt receive any communication from Leeds and, as a result, Leeds 
transferred the account balance to an instant access ISA which attracted minimal interest.
 
Mr J became aware of the issue in September 2020 and transferred the funds to a new ISA. 
But he says that, as a result of the lack of communication, he has lost interest on his savings 
for 118 days. So, he complained to Leeds.
Leeds says that it records show that a maturity notification was sent to Mr J by email on              
22 April 2020 asking for his maturity instructions. The email also explained that, if no 
response was received, the funds would be transferred into an instant access ISA in line with 
the terms of the account. Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into it. But she felt that Leeds had provided sufficient 
persuasive evidence to show that an email had been sent to Mr Js correct email address in 
line with the terms of the account. So, she didnt think Leeds had done anything wrong and 
she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, he said Leeds:
should be able to provide an exact copy of the email it said it sent his showing both 
the content of the email and his email address;
should have sent his notification in the post rather than relying solely on an email;
has not sent his annual ISA statement. And had this been received on time, he would 
have had the chance to mitigate his loss.   
Overall, he didnt think Leeds had done enough to notify him that his account was due to 
mature  particularly, as this happened during the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr J has concerns that Leeds has been unable to provide a full copy of the 
content of the email including his email address. However, banks and buildings societies are 
not required to keep hard copies of correspondence sent to its account holders. I would 
expect Leeds to provide evidence that an email was sent and a sample of the content. And 
Leeds has provided this information to us. In addition, it has also provided evidence which 
indicates that the email was opened on receipt.  
  
I can understand Mr Js frustration in that he doesnt recall receiving this notification. But I 
find that Leeds did send his maturity notification on 22 April 2020 to the correct email 
address - in accordance with the terms of the account. 
I also note Mr J thinks Leeds should have sent the original notification as a hard copy i.e. by 
letter. But I dont agree. The regulations and guidance that cover transactions of this type 
only require notification to be sent 14 days prior to maturity. They dont specify that 
notification should be sent in any particular format. And Ive not seen anything to suggest    
Mr J asked Leeds to only ever communicate by post.
Here, the email was sent 14 days prior to maturity. And Im satisfied that Leeds didnt do 
anything wrong sending an email rather than a postal letter. 
The terms of Mr Js ISA explain that if maturity instructions arent received the balance will 
be matured to an instant access ISA which attracts a much lower rate of interest. I 
appreciate Mr J is upset that his ISA balance only attracted a very low rate of interest for 
several months after maturity. But Im satisfied that Leeds didnt do anything wrong in the 
absence of his maturity instructions.
Leeds appear to have accepted that there has been a delay in posting Mr Js annual ISA 
statement. It has explained that this is a result of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
associated lockdown. So, Ive thought carefully about this. In doing so, Ive also taken into 
account a statement issued by the financial regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The regulator acknowledged that firms may be unable to comply with the usual requirement 
for postal documents during the pandemic. But it said firms should ensure consumers are 
not disadvantaged by any delays.
In light of this, and given the wider circumstances at this time, I dont think a delay sending 
Mr Js annual statement is unreasonable. So, Ive thought about whether the delayed issue 
of the annual statement has disadvantaged Mr J. But overall, I dont think it did. From what 
Mr J has said, Im satisfied he was aware that the ISA was due to mature in May 2020 as 
hes told us he called in advance to enquire about what he needed to do upon maturity. And, 
as mentioned above, Ive found that Leeds had notified Mr J that his ISA was due to mature 
within the required timescales. 
Overall, I think Leeds did enough to let Mr J know that his ISA was due to mature and the 
action he needed to take. So, I wont be asking Leeds to take any further action in respect of 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman