DRN-3814423
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society did not make a payment he asked them to from 
his current account. 
What happened
On 21 April 2022, Mr B says he set up two future dated payments using his Nationwide 
online banking. One of those payments  due to leave the account on 1 May 2022 - did not 
get paid. Because of this Mr B says he was charged interest and late fees by the intended 
recipient. Mr B says hes sure he set up both payments correctly because he recalls seeing 
the green tick on Nationwides system and annotated his bills that these payments had been 
set up. 
Nationwide responded to Mr Bs complaint. They said they could find no evidence of Mr B 
having arranged the payment in question. Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides response so 
referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. He said, in summary, that he had reviewed 
Mr Bs online banking records and could see that although he set up one future dated 
payment (the one which Mr B says went out successfully)  the second payment doesnt 
appear to have been set up. Although the Investigator did note a single payment had been 
selected, but not completed on 21 April 2022.
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained hed set up the second payment correctly, having seen the 
green tick confirmation.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided copies of his bills that he annotated having set up his payments. I accept 
that Mr B believes hed set up both payments correctly and is certain he saw a green tick 
confirming hed done so. 
Nationwide has provided the online banking history for Mr Bs activity on 21 April 2022. Like 
our Investigator, Ive found this shows Mr B logged in and selected a single payment at 
11:14am  but did not enter any payments details - and logged out again at 11:16am. Mr B 
then logged in again at 11:32am and set up the payment that was successful. But theres no 
further online banking activity for that day after this. 
The online banking history also shows Mr B logged on and viewed his full statement on the 
following dates: 29 April, 30 April, and 3 May 2022. But again, no instructions for payment 
were set up on these days. So, Nationwide has no record of the payment Mr B says he set 
up to leave his account on 1 May 2022. 
Mr B thinks there must have been a problem with Nationwides system and I accept thats at 
least possible. But Nationwide has told us there have been no other reported concerns about 
payments not being successful on that date. If there had been a technical issue, it seems 
likely other customers would have been affected. 
Where information is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I need to decide what I think 
is more likely than not based on the evidence I do have. 
Mr Bs evidence shows he believes he completed the process for the future payment, but 
because these are his local records they dont confirm that this actually happened.
Nationwides records show the payment wasnt set up, and theyve told us there is no 
evidence there were system issues. Ultimately, Im more persuaded by Nationwides 
evidence that the payment wasnt set up as I can compare the two entries  one of which 
shows it was done correctly, one of which shows it wasnt done correctly. And I think if there 
were system issues like this theyd be quite serious and have affected a large number of 
Nationwides customers  but Ive seen nothing to suggest this did happen.
So, having considered everything both parties have provided, I think its more likely than not 
Nationwide havent made a mistake in respect of Mr Bs payment.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman