Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
charge card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. 
So Ill refer to Allianz as the seller to keep things simple. Mr R says Allianz mis-sold him the 
PPI policy on his charge card. 
Background
Mr R bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says he was not aware the PPI was optional. But Allianz says it wouldve made the 
optional nature of the PPI clear. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs credit agreement. In it, there was a section to add PPI under a 
separate heading. I can see the box requesting cover has been ticked and hes then signed 
this form and I wouldve expected him to have looked over the form before signing it. There 
was nothing on this form indicating that he had to take the PPI so he couldve declined cover 
if he didnt want it. 
So I think its likely Allianz made it clear that PPI was optional and Mr R agreed to have it 
knowing he had a choice.  
I understand Mr R says he was pressured to take the PPI and he also feels the seller may 
have been pushy. Pressure can be subjective so, Id need persuasive evidence to uphold his 
complaint on this basis. Encouraging a customer to consider buying PPI and highlighting the 
benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue pressure. In order to uphold a complaint due to 
pressure, Id need to hear detail as to what was said or done which made a consumer feel 
they were unable to decline cover. Overall, I havent heard enough to make me think Allianz 
put undue pressure on Mr R to take out the PPI. 
DRN-1854796Mr R says that he was advised to take out the policy. Allianz says that no advice was given. 
It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an advised (or 
recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually mean that the 
seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider financial 
circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular customer - 
rather than simply intimating that its PPI policy was a good policy to have more generally to 
all of its customers. The latter would be a non-advised sale. 
I havent seen anything that suggests Allianz gave Mr R a tailored  recommendation to take 
the PPI. So, it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But as a non-advised sale, it did still 
have to make sure he got enough clear information so he could decide if he wanted to take 
it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr R was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, he told us he was employed and 
didnt suffer from any medical conditions, so he wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms 
about known health issues or unusual working arrangements. 
Based on what I know about Mr Rs circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to him. Mr R was employed so he may have had some employee benefits provided by 
his employer. But this policy couldve paid out on top of any employee benefits he did have if 
he was off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  So, I still think he couldve 
found the policy to be useful. 
With this in mind, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. And I dont 
think that Mr R has lost out as a result of anything Allianz mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman