DRN-3997137
The complaint
Mrs B complains ReAssure Limited caused unreasonable delays and provided poor 
customer service when she wanted to release tax-free cash from her pension. 
Mrs B has been assisted by her financial adviser Mr R, from firm I which was named on her 
ReAssure policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023, in which I set out the 
events leading up to Mrs Bs complaint in some detail. The background doesnt appear to be 
in dispute, so rather than repeat it in full here, Ill just summarise the key points.
Mrs B had two paid up personal pension policies (plan numbers ending *449 and *483), 
which were formerly with Legal & General and are now with ReAssure Limited (ReAssure). 
Her financial advisers firm I have been servicing agents since 2019. 
Shed kept these policies with ReAssure rather than transferring to provider A with her 
other plans as they were subject to a pension review guarantee (PRG). This ensures Mrs B 
wasnt worse off by investing into a personal pension rather than a workplace pension 
following the industry wide pensions review. Rather than carrying out the redress calculation 
at the time of the review, the PRG on Mrs Bs policies would be calculated and added to the 
policy value when benefits were taken. 
In early December 2020 Mrs B wrote to ReAssure to request a pension valuation. She was 
thinking of taking a tax-free lump sum in 2021 to use as the deposit on a house, leaving the 
remainder invested. ReAssure emailed Mrs B on 14 December 2020 to explain the 
calculation of the PRG would take four to six weeks, but she would be kept regularly 
updated. ReAssure sent Mrs B a pension valuation dated 12 March 2021 of just under 
£235,872, valid for three months, which confirmed a PRG applied to both policies. 
From this point there was a lot of back and forth while Mrs B and her adviser chased 
ReAssure, being aware the 90-day guarantee period was due to elapse. ReAssure provided 
inaccurate information and valuations, which didnt reflect the PRG on several occasions, 
and communication with them was difficult. Mrs B experienced poor customer service and 
found the whole process stressful and frustrating, as around this time house prices were 
rising, and she couldnt proceed with her purchase without these funds. 
Mrs B complained about the delay and received £250 to apologise for the poor service, but 
no explanation or resolution to the problem. ReAssure eventually agreed with Mrs Bs 
adviser that her case was being fast tracked. The funds were still not received by June 2021 
despite the intervention of two of firm Is senior management. 
Mrs B finally received a TFC payment around 6 July 2021 of £63,197, and the transfer 
values for both policies. By this time she had decided to transfer to provider A rather than 
retain her drawdown funds with ReAssure. So the adviser asked for updated policy 
valuations, transfer valuations and any bonuses or penalties to enable her to do that. And 
requested that ReAssure ensure all figures quoted reflected the applicable PRG. But 
unfortunately ReAssure quoted a valuation of policy *449 of just over £64,327 which didnt 
reflect the PRG. Each time the policy valuations needed to be recalculated Mrs B was told it 
would take a further 4-6 weeks, despite the promised fast-track. Mrs B referred her 
complaint to this service in July 2021, more than six months since her original request to 
ReAssure. 
ReAssures administrative errors continued, as it told the adviser it had overpaid Mrs Bs 
TFC by just over £7,234 which shed need to repay. And when he queried this, ReAssure 
questioned his authority over Mrs Bs plans. This issue was quickly resolved when he 
provided evidence his firm had been servicing agents since 2019. 
Mrs B returned just over £4,229 to ReAssure on 9 September 2021, and transferred her 
policies to A in October 2021, at which point they were reinvested. Our investigator upheld 
Mrs Bs complaint and set out how she thought things should be put right. 
But while Mrs B accepted the outcome, ReAssure didnt respond, despite being chased. So 
in May 2022 the case was made ready for an ombudsmans decision. In October 2022 
ReAssure finally responded, agreeing to settle the complaint as the investigator had 
suggested. While disappointed it had taken so long, Mrs B agreed, on the condition shed be 
given the loss calculations. The investigator told ReAssure Mrs B had accepted its offer and 
left it to them to put things right. In November 2022, almost two years since she first 
contacted ReAssure, Mrs B had heard nothing further from ReAssure, so she let us know 
she now wanted an ombudsmans decision. 
On 12 December 2022 Mrs B received a cheque for £2,784 from ReAssure, but without an 
explanation or the calculations she was expecting. Mrs B was eventually told this figure 
reflected the 8% interest on the tax-free lump sum. But ReAssure hadnt completed the loss 
calculation on the transfer delay, as it was waiting for information from A. 
So in January 2023 the case was passed to me for review. ReAssure had by this time 
received the information from A, but still hadnt fully compensated Mrs B. 
My provisional findings 
In February I made the following provisional findings (in summary):
The service provided by ReAssure to Mrs B (and her adviser) when she requested a 
pension valuation, and subsequently to transfer her policies to A, has been inadequate. 
The ReAssure policies formed a substantial proportion of Mrs Bs pension provision, so it 
was important for her financial future to know where she stood. Particularly as she 
intended to use the TFC towards a house purchase the following year, prior to the expiry 
of the stamp duty holiday in September 2021. 
As the calculation of pension review redress isnt automated and has to be done 
manually, it was reasonable for ReAssure to have warned Mrs B to allow four to six 
weeks for the calculations to be carried out. 
Mrs B had allowed sufficient time for a potential house move in the summer of 2021 
by asking for the information she needed in December 2020;Shed taken steps towards getting a mortgage arranged so once the TFC was 
available, (or she had an accurate idea of how much to expect) shed be in a position 
to proceed;
I thought Mrs B had a reasonable expectation that ReAssure would provide her with 
an accurate valuation of both policies in a timely fashion, and that once given those 
values could be relied upon. 
ReAssures system notes suggest the PRG calculation could only be done once the 
completed forms were received back from Mrs B. While the precise figure may not be 
known until the final calculation, it wasnt helpful of ReAssure to issue policy 
valuations which didnt include the PRG, as the difference was substantial 
(increasing the value from around £64k to over £235k) which would have a significant 
impact on the TFC entitlement. 
ReAssure had sent Mrs B forms showing incorrect valuations but told her adviser 
theyd manually correct the figures to include the PRG when they were returned. But 
when Mrs B returned the completed forms, ReAssure then said it couldnt accept 
them. Yet it was also unable to produce forms showing the correct figures when they 
were requested. 
While 4-6 weeks was fair for the initial PRG calculation, I didnt think it was 
reasonable to apply this timeframe every time calculations needed to be corrected 
due to ReAssures own errors, as this simply added to the significant delays. 
Like the investigator I thought 1 February 2021 was a reasonable date for the PRG 
calculation to have been completed, as it allowed around eight weeks from Mrs Bs 
original request. ReAssure provided a valuation on 12 March 2021 which it 
guaranteed for 90 days. The transaction didnt complete within the 90-day guarantee 
period, due to delays and errors on ReAssures part. 
I acknowledged many members of ReAssure staff from various departments had 
tried to help, but this itself made the process rather disjointed with no overall 
ownership. And the outstanding issues of the lack of calculations or documentary 
evidence to support the compensation remain unresolved. 
Around six months after her original request, Mrs B received a tax-free lump sum 
payment into her bank account, which was different to the amount shed been told to 
expect and with no paperwork to show how it had been calculated. 
And then ReAssure said it had overpaid her by £7,234, but with no evidence or 
explanation. Mrs B repaid a sum to ReAssure which appears to be less than it had 
originally requested, but she has still not received the calculations. 
The PRG valuation which ReAssure agreed to honour, despite the 90-day guarantee 
period having expired was a total of just under £235,872, releasing a TFC figure of 
£58,967. Id asked ReAssure to confirm that this valuation was correct and reflects 
both policies, as the paperwork only quoted policy *449. And to show Mrs B has  
received the correct amount of TFC (after adjusting for the alleged overpayment and 
the proportion of it which she returned). 
Once the correct amount of TFC has been confirmed, ReAssure should pay interest 
for the period between 1 February 2021, when it should have been paid, to the date it finally was paid (around 7 July 2021), which again ReAssure and Mrs B should 
confirm. 
And it should perform a loss calculation based on Mrs Bs policies being encashed 
and transferred to A on 8 July 2021 rather than in October (and to confirm the date 
and amount which had actually been transferred. 
In October 2022, ReAssure paid Mrs B £2,784, representing the interest on the 
delayed tax-free cash, but I couldnt tell whether this figure was right, as the TFC 
figure hadnt been confirmed, and it wasnt clear how many days delay the interest 
payment represented. I said ReAssure was entitled to deduct amounts already paid 
to Mrs B from any interest calculation it carries out as a result of this decision. 
In respect of the transfer of the policies to A in October 2021, which Mrs B only 
decided to do as a result of ReAssures poor service, I said I hadnt seen 
confirmation of the amount transferred and Mrs B hadnt been provided with closing 
statements for her ReAssure policies. 
It appeared Mrs B advised ReAssure of her intention to transfer to another provider 
around 18 June 2021, but its not clear from what Ive seen when Mrs B completed 
the necessary paperwork or customer journey process to enable the policies to be 
transferred to A. So unless I saw evidence to the contrary I suggested ten working 
days from 18 June 2021 is a reasonable timeframe for the transfer to be completed. 
Which meant the transfer would have happened around the time the TFC was paid to 
Mrs B.
As well as performing a loss calculation and paying interest, I thought ReAssure 
should pay more compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs B had 
experienced. So I needed to consider the impact on Mrs B.
Mrs B received the TFC sum in July 2021 yet decided not to proceed with buying a 
property, at least until her complaint was resolved. I understood her disappointment 
in not achieving her goal. But didnt think it would be fair to hold ReAssure solely 
responsible for it not happening. There were a number of factors outside of its 
control, such as price inflation arising from increased demand for properties in the 
area, and the stamp duty holiday, interest rate rises affecting affordability, and Mrs 
Bs mortgage was to be in joint names, and we had no information about the 
circumstances of the joint party. So as I couldnt say shed definitely have bought a 
property but for ReAssures actions, I didnt award compensation specifically for this. 
I accepted it had taken a lot of the advisers time (he said around 35 hours), but I 
didnt think ReAssure should compensate Mrs Bs adviser personally for helping her. 
Nor did I think ReAssure needed to reimburse Mrs B for any professional fees she 
paid to her adviser. While I had no doubt Mrs B found the support of her financial 
adviser helpful and reassuring, I didnt think it had actually been necessary for what 
she wanted to do. And I thought it might have contributed to the confusion and delays 
as Mrs B hadnt fully delegated responsibility for liaising with ReAssure to the adviser 
and continued contact with ReAssure herself. So as it was Mrs Bs choice to employ 
the adviser to this extent, it wouldnt be fair to ask ReAssure to cover his professional 
fees. 
So I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint. And I set out the steps ReAssure needed 
to take to calculate the redress, with the aim of putting Mrs B as close as possible in the position shed be in if things had proceeded as they should have. I also said ReAssure 
should provide the loss calculations to Mrs B in a clear and simple format. 
In terms of compensation for the trouble and upset, ReAssure had already paid Mrs B £250, 
and our investigator recommended it should be increased to £500. But I thought that was no 
longer sufficient, given the time that has passed with the issue still not fully resolved. So I 
said ReAssure should pay Mrs B an additional £750 (so £1,000 in total). 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded. 
ReAssure accepted the findings and said it had no further comments to make. But it didnt 
respond to the questions Id posed or provide any of the requested information or 
confirmations.
Mrs B accepted the findings, but wanted to make two points for my consideration: 
It was due to her loss of confidence in ReAssure that she decided to transfer her 
policies to A. Her advisers fee for arranging this was around £3,077 which she 
thought ReAssure should reimburse. 
Although A provided the information requested, ReAssure still hasnt carried out the 
loss calculation for the period while her funds remained in cash rather than invested. 
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank ReAssure for accepting the findings and agreeing to the compensation as set out in 
the provisional decision. But Id like to draw attention to the queries raised within the findings 
that it will need to answer in order to carry out the redress calculation accurately.
In response to Mrs Bs request for reimbursement of her advisers fees, my comment would 
be in line with what I said in the provisional decision. I completely understand why she 
decided not to remain ReAssures customer. But she already had a policy with A, so there 
was no need for the adviser to make a recommendation, and Mrs B couldve instructed the 
switch to A herself, theres no need to use an adviser. So while she no doubt found the 
advisers input helpful and reassuring, given the difficulties in communicating with ReAssure, 
the advisers fee isnt something it would be fair to hold ReAssure responsible for. As 
mentioned in the provisional decision, my aim is to put Mrs B in the position she shouldve 
been in, which would originally have been a drawdown plan with ReAssure. So Im not going 
to direct ReAssure to reimburse Mrs B for those fees.
I understand Mrs Bs frustration at the lack of progress, but once a consumer has asked for 
an ombudsman to review a complaint, its not unusual for a business to wait for a final 
decision before carrying out any redress calculation. Actuaries are often required to perform 
the loss calculation, so they need to know exactly what they have to do, and this way avoids 
the potential for needing to do it twice, if things change in the final decision. Given the history 
of errors with the calculations, I think its reasonable for them to wait until Mrs B has formally 
accepted the decision.  As neither party has raised any objections to the way things were put right, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions reached in the provisional decision. 
So I uphold this complaint and ReAssure should put things right as set out below. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs B as close as possible in the position shed be in if her tax-free lump 
sum was paid when it should have been, the transfer to A had been carried out when it 
should have been in July 2021, and the funds invested in line with the remainder of her 
policy with A shortly after that. 
To put things right ReAssure must:
1) Confirm the 12 March 2021 valuation of Mrs Bs policies (£235,872) and the 25% tax-
free lump sum based on that amount (£58,967) have been calculated correctly to 
include the PRG on both policies.
2) Show its calculation of 8% simple interest on that figure from 1 February 2021 when 
it should have been paid to Mrs B, to the date it was paid (which I understand was 
around 8 July 2021). 
If this figure is greater than the £2,734 in interest already paid, ReAssure should pay 
Mrs B the difference. If the calculation shows Mrs B has been overpaid, ReAssure 
shouldnt claim the overpayment back. 
Note: If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, to enable her to 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3) Calculate, as at the date of the final decision, the notional current value of Mrs Bs 
current pension plan with A had the ReAssure policies been encashed and 
transferred to A around 8 July 2021 and reinvested in line with the approach taken by 
A (as evidenced by the information A has provided to ReAssure).
4) Compare the value in (3) to the actual value of Mrs Bs pension with A at the date of 
any final decision along these lines. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, then Mrs B has suffered a financial loss and should be compensated 
accordingly. If the notional value is less than the actual value theres no loss and no 
investment compensation is due.
The compensation should be paid into Mrs Bs current pension plan with A. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into 
Mrs Bs pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. 
But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have eventually provided a 
taxable income. So, the total amount paid in this way should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mrs Bs expected marginal rate of tax at retirement. I said its reasonable to assume that Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mrs B would 
have been able to take a 25% tax free lump sum, the tax reduction should only be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in a fair overall tax reduction of 15%. 
Neither Mrs B or ReAssure have said this isnt a reasonable assumption so the 
calculation should proceed on that basis.  
5) ReAssure should provide details of these calculations in a clear and easy to read 
format. It should also provide the closing statements of her policies if those are still 
outstanding. 
As I understand ReAssure now has the information about the investment of Mrs Bs plan 
with A. So if settlement is not made within 28 days of being notified of Mrs Bs acceptance of 
my final decision (if she does so), ReAssure should add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date on which they are notified of Mrs Bs acceptance to the date of settlement.
In addition to the sums arrived at in steps 1-5 above, ReAssure should pay Mrs B a further 
£750 (so a total of £1,000 in addition to the £250 paid in May/June 2021) in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience she has experienced. This figure also goes some way towards 
the fees charged by her financial adviser. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman