DRN-3761920
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has declined her claim for veterinary treatment for her dog on the ground that it 
related to a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Mrs W insured her dog, who Ill refer to as B, with C&G from 22 October 2020. On 29 
January 2022 Mrs W took B to his vet for rear leg lameness and made a claim for his 
treatment. 
C&G referred to Bs veterinary history which it says confirmed that there had been signs and 
symptoms of left hind leg lameness prior to the inception of the policy. It referred specifically 
to an incident on 26 May 2020. According to Mrs W, this incident involved B skidding on 
gravel while playing and damaging his pads, causing him to limp. C&G refers to the vets 
notes which say that when playing B started to become unsteady on his legs and became 
lame on his left hind leg. He was prescribed analgesia.
In its final response letter to Mrs W declining her claim, C&G states that when applying for 
her policy, Mrs W hadnt disclosed a pre-existing condition of the left hind leg lameness she 
had discussed with Bs vet on 26 May 2020. It says that if shed done so, it wouldve applied 
an endorsement to her policy from inception stating:
Excludes cover on Hind Limb Lameness and any resulting conditions with effect 
from 26th May 2020.
C&G says that Mrs Ws claim was denied as it falls within this endorsement.
Mrs W maintains that in 2020 B suffered only skinned pads and once these had healed he 
had no limp or other leg problems until his cruciate ligament injury some 18 months later. 
Shes provided a letter from Bs current vet who had also seen the notes from Bs previous 
vet whod treated him in May 2020 for skinning the top layer of leather off both hind feet. It 
was noted that this vet expressed no other concerns about Bs feet or legs. At a visit to the 
same vet on 3 December 2020 for an annual booster vaccination, no further problems were 
reported by Mrs W with Bs legs and the vet found no issues including with his legs. 
On 9 December 2021, B attended his new vet for his annual booster and again no issues 
were raised by either Mrs W or the vet. The vets opinion was that an initial wobbliness that 
Mrs W had mentioned in 2020 (and which was only her observation, not the vets), was 
secondary to Bs painful pads and wasnt an underlying mobility problem.
The vet goes on to state that it was only on 2 February 2022 that B presented for the first 
time in relation to his mobility. He was limping and had swelling in the left hind limb which the 
vet suspected was related to cruciate damage. The vet concluded:
I can confirm and Im sure you can agree by looking at the relevant history above that 
the recent condition claimed for is not related to any previous condition. I ask you to 
therefore reconsider the rejection of the claim.
Mrs W wasnt happy with C&Gs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that C&G should not have declined Mrs Ws claim as it 
hadnt clearly evidenced why the claim for Bs left hind leg lameness made in 2022 was 
linked to injury sustained in 2020. Her view was that C&G should reconsider the claim and 
also pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset she had sustained.
In response to our investigators view, C&G maintained it position and also introduced a new 
ground for declining the claim, namely that B was overweight. It referred to another exclusion 
within the policy which states:
What is not insured? 
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this 
results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Our investigator advised C&G that this was a new issue and Mrs Ws complaint was limited 
to the matters raised in C&Gs final response letter.
As C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view, Mrs Ws complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont consider that it was fair for C&G to have introduced the endorsement to Mrs Ws 
policy upon which it seeks to rely to decline her clam. Its clear that the policy doesnt cover 
pre-existing conditions, and it gives C&G the right to add an endorsement retrospectively if it 
is made aware of any pre-existing conditions at the time of a claim. 
But in my view, for any such endorsement to be fair, there must exist a pre-existing 
condition, that is one that has shown clinical signs or symptoms prior to the inception of the 
policy or within the following 14 days, that is connected to the condition to which the claim 
relates.
I agree with our investigators view that theres no evidence showing that B had lameness 
when he was seen by the vet in 2020 other than that attributable to having sustained 
damage to his pads. The vets notes at the time said, rest of paws and legs fine. At two 
subsequent visits to the vet in December 2020 and 2021 for annual vaccinations no 
reference was made to any lameness. Lameness was only noted in February 2022. I 
consider it likely that if there had been clinical signs or symptoms of lameness attributable to 
a cruciate issue in 2020, this would have shown recurring signs in the period between 2020 
and 2022.
In coming to my view, I also rely upon the professional opinion expressed by Bs vet, quoted 
above, that the condition for which B was treated in 2022 was not connected to any previous 
condition. C&G was asked to provide any medical evidence upon which it relied to support a 
connection, but it hasnt done so.My conclusion is therefore that I dont consider that the treatment for which Mrs W is 
claiming relates to a pre-existing condition, or that C&G is acting fairly in declining her claim 
on the basis of an endorsement that I consider was unreasonably applied. 
I agree with our investigator that C&G should reconsider Mrs Ws claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions and pay her compensation of £150 for the trouble and 
upset the rejection of her claim has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mrs Ws claim 
subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs W 
interest on any sum paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the date of her claim until 
payment is made to her.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs W 
compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman