DRN-3162072
The complaint
Ms E complains about the county court judgment that was obtained against her by PRA 
Group (UK) Limited.
What happened
Ms E defaulted on her credit card account in February 2009. She agreed to make payments 
of £1 each month to the credit card company. The debt was assigned by the credit card 
company to a third party in June 2014 and was then assigned to PRA Group in December 
2014. The monthly payment stopped in August 2020 and PRA Group obtained a county 
court judgment against Ms E in January 2021 for £2,213.76.
Ms E complained to PRA Group about the judgment but it said that it had sent letters to her 
about the debt and had tried to contact her on the phone numbers provided. It said that it 
had written to her in October and November 2020 after her payments had stopped and then 
obtained the judgment in January 2021. It said that it hadnt made an error so wouldnt be 
making an application to set aside the judgment but Ms E could apply to have it set aside. 
Ms E wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
could only consider whether PRA Group should have done more to find out why payments 
stopped and why it escalated things before checking that Ms E wasnt living somewhere else 
 but she didnt think that PRA Group had done anything wrong. 
Ms E has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She say that she 
doesn't recall receiving the notice of assignment of her debt to PRA Group, it should have 
done more to trace her and she forgot to transfer the payment after August 2020 because 
her father had passed away. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the county court has issued the judgment against Ms E and Im unable to interfere 
with that judgment or to require PRA Group to remove it  but Ms E can apply to the 
court to have it set aside  but I am able to consider the actions that PRA Group took 
before it obtained that judgment;
Ms E defaulted on her credit card account in February 2009 and she agreed to make 
payments of £1 each month to the credit card company  which continued until 
August 2020;
the debt was assigned by the credit card company to a third party in June 2014 and 
then to PRA Group in December 2014  Ms E says that she doesnt recall receiving 
the notice of assignment but PRA Group says that a notice was sent to her;
PRA Group says that it sent letters to Ms E using the address for her which had been 
provided by the credit card company, the letters werent returned to it as 
undeliverable and it received no notice from Ms E (or the credit card company) about 
a change of address;
it also says that it tried to phone Ms E using the phone numbers that it had been 
provided but that it was informed that one number was incorrect and that it was 
advised that the other number was a wrong number  even though that was the 
number that Ms E used to call it in April 2021 (and which is also the number that she 
provided to this service);
I consider that PRA Group made reasonable attempts to contact Ms E;
PRA Group says that Ms E continued to make the monthly payment of £1 to the 
original creditor which forwarded her payments to it until August 2020 when the 
payments stopped;
Ms E says that she changed bank accounts and the £1 standing order to the credit 
card company was missed but she had every intention of setting it up on her new 
account - but her father passed away and it slipped her mind;
PRA Group says that it sent letters to Ms E in October and November 2020 after the 
payments had stopped but the payments didnt restart and it received no reply from 
Ms E so it applied to the county court for a judgment against her  which was granted 
in January 2021;
I sympathise with Ms E for the loss of her father which must have been very 
upsetting for her  but I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that 
PRA Group acted incorrectly before it applied for the judgment against her  and it 
didnt contribute in any material way to the issues with the payment stopping after 
August 2020; and
Ms E has described the consequences that the judgment is likely to have for her but, 
although I sympathise with her for those consequences and the financial difficulties 
that shes experienced, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require PRA Group to pay any compensation to her or to 
take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman