DRN-3763817
The complaint
Miss G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money failed to follow payment 
instructions.
What happened
Miss G is represented by the trustee to her Virgin Money account Mr B. Mr B says he made 
a payment out of Miss Gs account in March 2021 for £100 to Miss Gs sisters account. He 
says he made two further transfers to the same account for over £3,000 but these were 
blocked. Mr B says he spoke to Virgin Money about them and was told they would be 
processed but they were not. He says Virgin Money required evidence the money was for 
Miss Gs benefit which he confirmed was the case. Mr B says he spent over two hours on 
calls to Virgin Money and says he is the trustee to the account not it. He questions if Virgin 
Money has committed an offence and would like £1,000 compensation for the upset and 
anger, he was caused.
Virgin Money says it made a mistake by approving the first payment. It also accepts it should 
have explained why the second payments were blocked and has paid £75 compensation for 
that part of the complaint. Virgin Money says the account key product information makes 
clear that all withdrawals must be for the benefit of the named child. It says the payments 
made by Mr B were to Miss Gs sisters account not hers and so was entitled to block them.
Mr B brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Virgin Money acted in line with the account key product information 
when Mr B transferred the money to Miss Gs sisters account. The investigator thought 
Virgin Money made a mistake by allowing the first transfer. The investigator explained Miss 
G was the complainant here not Mr B and so could only consider any inconvenience to Mr B 
rather than any upset. He thought the compensation appropriate.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says the withdrawals were for Miss Gs 
benefit and questions how Virgin Money could know what was for her benefit. He says Virgin 
Money refuses to accept it made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint by paying an appropriate compensation amount. I 
appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
I hope it will be helpful to Mr B if I explain the rules we operate under. We are not a court or 
Virgin Moneys regulator and so its not our role to decide if a business has committed an 
offence as Mr B suggests may have taken place here. And its not our role to direct a 
business on how it operates an account or what its withdrawal rules are as in this complaint. 
I also make clear to Mr B that we consider complaints from what are called eligible 
complainants. In this complaint the eligible complainant is Miss G and not Mr B. That means 
we cant consider awarding compensation to Mr B for what he describes as my upset and 
anger but we can consider awarding compensation for any inconvenience caused to Miss G 
and Mr B.
I have looked carefully at Virgin Moneys key product information document. Im satisfied that 
document makes clear in these circumstances that all withdrawals must be for the benefit of 
the child. So, I dont think Virgin Money made a mistake by blocking the two payments Mr B 
made from Miss Gs account to her sisters account. And Im satisfied it acted in line with that 
key product document. I appreciate Mr B says it is for him to decide if the withdrawals are for 
Miss Gs benefit, but I disagree and am satisfied the document is clear. I also think that 
Virgin Money would not know about any family disputes or disagreements for example and 
has an obligation to protect Miss Gs money and Miss G as its customer. Whilst there is no 
evidence of any such dispute here, I am sure Mr B appreciates that Virgin Money cant 
simply assume that is the case.
I appreciate Mr B says that Virgin Money correctly approved the first payment. But I think it 
more likely than not that Virgin Money made a mistake by approving it. I say that as by 
approving it, that decision was contrary to its key product information document and think it 
likely that it simply checked the surname on the transfer request rather than the first names.
There is no question here that Virgin Money made a mistake when Mr B called and gave him 
incorrect information about the payments, and I have made clear that I also think it made a 
mistake about the first payment. I can see Virgin Money has fairly apologised and paid what 
I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I dont think Miss G suffered any real 
impact by the mistake and am satisfied the inconvenience caused to Mr B was relatively 
limited. I dont think what took place justifies £1,000 compensation as Mr B would like.
I accept Mr B questions if by selecting the cheque option that he could have paid money into 
a different account. But I have to consider what did take place and can see Virgin Money 
says that wouldnt have made any difference.
Overall whilst I accept Virgin Money made mistakes, I find it was entitled to block a payment 
when it had legitimate and reasonable concerns that the money was not being paid for the 
benefit of its customer. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman