DRN-2329891
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited handled a claim for his 
damaged bike following a road traffic accident. 
 
What happened
 Mr F holds a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy. In August 2019 he was involved in a 
road traffic accident (RTA), causing damage to his and a third partys vehicle. Following this, 
he made a claim under his policy. (The third partys claim has been settled in full).
Markerstudy considered the damage to Mr Fs bike, and recorded it as category B  
indicating that the bike was seriously damaged and shouldnt re-appear on the road. And it 
offered him £1,400 in settlement of his claim. 
But Mr F said his bike was worth more as it was a US model, and provided sale adverts for 
similar vehicles at a higher price. He also said Markerstudy had recorded the damage 
category incorrectly, and said that he wanted to keep the bike. 
Markerstudy said the adverts Mr F supplied werent a fair reflection of what the bike would 
sell for. It agreed to increase its valuation to £2,500 and offered him £2,000 to settle his 
claim, after deducting the policy excess and 10% as the bikes MOT had expired. It also 
agreed to amend the damage category from B to N  to indicate that while structurally 
damaged, the bike was repairable, but repair costs may it exceed its value. 
Mr F declined the offer, and then discovered Markerstudy had made an error when 
amending the damage category, which led to his bike being destroyed. Markerstudy 
apologised and agreed to reverse the 10% MOT deduction, increasing the settlement to 
£2,250. It also offered Mr F a further £100 compensation for the distress it had caused. 
Unhappy with Markerstudys offer, Mr F brought his complaint to our service for an 
independent review.
An investigator considered Mr Fs complaint, and agreed Markerstudy was wrong to destroy 
his bike. She said she didnt investigate the reduction for the expired MOT as this had since 
been reversed. But she thought the £2,250 offered in settlement of his claim was reasonable, 
and the £100 compensation offered was fair. So she didnt ask Markerstudy to do anything 
more. 
Markerstudy didnt dispute the investigators findings. But Mr F did. He maintained that both 
the settlement figure and compensation offered were too low. So as no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has now come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy admits it was wrong to have destroyed Mr Fs bike. And for the avoidance of 
doubt, I agree it shouldnt have, as it seems hed made it clear he wanted to keep it. So what 
I need to decide is whether Markerstudy did enough following its error to put things right.
To decide whether Markerstudy did enough, I need to determine whether the valuation it 
placed on Mr Fs bike, and the settlement that followed, was fair. Ill also consider its offer of 
compensation.
Its useful for me to point out that this services role isnt to work out the exact value of an 
individual vehicle. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy 
correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Mr Fs policy states that  if your motorcycle or its accessories are accidentally or 
maliciously damaged or vandalised during the period of insurance, we will choose to either 
repair or replace your motorcycle or the accessory, or we will give the legal owner a cash 
payment up to or the same as the market value or agreed value of your motorcycle or the 
accessory at the time it was damaged. 
Markerstudy defines market value as  The cost of replacing your motorcycle with one of 
the same make, model, specification, mileage and age, and which is in the same condition 
your motorcycle was in immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for.  
To determine pre-accident market value, its standard practice for the industry to use 
valuation guides  we think this is fair. So Ive looked at the guides from around the time of 
the RTA. 
Two of the main guides we use determined that the value of a bike the same make, model 
year of manufacture, and approximate mileage of Mr Fs, would be around £1,175 and 
£1,605 respectively. I can also see Markerstudy felt these guides produced an unfair figure, 
and it increased its valuation to £2,500 after looking at adverts for similar vehicles online.
As the investigator rightly set out, we dont usually find adverts for similar vehicles very 
persuasive because they are a reflection of what the seller believes the vehicle is worth. But 
we do consider them, as they could indicate if there is a problem with the guide values. They 
can also be useful when a vehicle isnt covered by the trade guides or is a limited edition. 
Mr F has suggested that his vehicle should attract a higher valuation as it is a US model. So 
in this case, Ive looked at advertised prices of bikes with the same make, model, and similar 
mileage and age to Mr Fs  including the advertised sale prices of US versions of his bike, 
to determine whether Markerstudys valuation is fair. 
From what Ive seen, while some bikes are being advertised at a higher price than that 
offered by Markerstudy, many are being sold for considerably less than this, and for less 
than the trade guides suggest. And the fact Mr Fs bike is a US model doesnt appear to 
have a significant impact on its value.
I appreciate Mr F feels his bike is worth more than Markerstudy has offered, but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to suggest that the trade guides have produced an unfair value. And 
as the valuation Markerstudy has reached is in excess of what two of the main trade guides 
suggest, overall, I think Markerstudys offer is fair. So I wont be asking it to increase it. 
Turning to compensation, Markerstudy offered Mr F £350 in total  £100 for distress, and 
£250 from reversing the 10% MOT deduction. But again, as the investigator rightly set out, 
our approach to such complaints is that wed only deem a deduction fair if the business could evidence the bike wouldve failed its MOT immediately before the incident. And I 
havent seen anything that leads me to conclude it would have. So I think Markerstudy 
shouldve reversed this reduction regardless.
Turning to the remaining £100 compensation offered, Mr F has explained how this matter 
has caused him stress and upset, and said that his bike was of particular importance to him. 
Ive set out above that Markerstudy has now offered what I believe is a fair settlement for the 
bike. So any compensation I award will solely look at the upset this matter caused, and will 
not reflect any monetary loss Mr F feels he may have incurred as a result of Markerstudys 
valuation.
I accept it wouldve been upsetting for Mr F to find out that his bike had been destroyed, 
especially when hed told Markerstudy he wanted to keep it. But while upsetting, 
Markerstudy has now offered Mr F £100 as an apology for its mistake. And on balance, I 
think this fairly reflects the distress its error caused. So I think the compensation it offered is 
reasonable, and I wont be asking it pay anything further in this regard. 
In summary, I agree Markerstudy was wrong to have destroyed Mr Fs bike when it did, but I 
think the offer its made in settlement of his claim is sufficient, and the compensation it 
agreed to pay him is fair. So I wont be asking it do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and I instruct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr F the £2,350 its agreed to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I require Mr F to accept or reject my 
decision before 2 March 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman