DRN-2644239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Monzo Bank Ltd allowed a scammer to open and operate an 
account which resulted in them losing £4,740 in a scam. 
The money was sent from a joint account, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to
Mr J. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In May 2019 Mr J was the victim of an email 
invoice interception scam. He was intending to pay a tradesperson for some work, but the 
email invoice had been hacked and a scammers account details were provided.
Believing the invoice to be genuine, Mr J sent payment from his account with his own bank 
H to the scammers account which was with Monzo. As soon as he became aware of what 
had happened Mr J reported this to H who contacted Monzo. Ultimately only around £5 was 
recovered and returned to Mr J.
A complaint was raised with Monzo as Mr J felt they should have done a more thorough 
investigation into their customer. He was unhappy that they allowed a fraudster to open and 
operate an account. Monzo responded and said that they couldnt share any details for data 
protection reasons. But they confirmed that theyd met all their legal and regulatory 
obligations and they declined to refund Mr J. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld. He concluded that Monzo should pay Mr J the amount he lost. Monzo 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr J has been a victim of a cruel scam and that hes acted in good faith 
throughout. It would only be fair for me to direct Monzo to reimburse Mr J if I think they 
couldve reasonably done more to prevent his loss, or if their failure to respond appropriately 
to the alleged push payment (APP) fraud prevented the recovery of his money. 
Regulated banks, like Monzo, have a variety of legal and regulatory obligations and Ive 
thought carefully about these when looking at this complaint. Even though it appears that the 
Monzo account holder was a scammer, Im still not able to freely share information about 
them or the account. I realise this means what Im saying might not feel particularly 
satisfactory to Mr J, because Ive seen and relied on information that Im simply unable to 
share. 
Im satisfied from the information Monzo has provided that they correctly did their due 
diligence when opening the beneficiary account. I dont think there was anything at that 
stage that reasonably could have given them cause to suspect that the account might later 
be abused or used fraudulently. 
A banks primary role is to process the payments that their customer authorises (in line with 
their mandate and the terms of the account), and they need good reasons not to do so. But 
banks also have obligations to be alert to fraud and other considerations such as money 
laundering and the prevention of the funding of terrorism. There is a balance to be struck 
between allowing customers to operate their accounts and stopping and checking payments. 
Ive looked at all the activity on the account prior to and shortly after Mr Js payment. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that Monzo acted reasonably and in line with their obligations in 
relation to the account. I dont think theyre responsible for any failing that reasonably could 
have prevented Mr Js loss.
Mr J says that as around £5 was returned to his account with H, this is an acceptance of 
liability or an admission of negligence by Monzo. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree. 
When H contacted Monzo, they went on to raise an indemnity for the remaining funds. At 
that point only £5.34 remained in the account and this is what was returned to Mr J. If more 
funds had remained, more would have been returned. I cant fairly ask Monzo to return 
money that had already been removed before H contacted them. 
Im sympathetic to Mr J losing a significant amount of money as a result of a scam. But as I 
dont think Monzo are responsible for this, Im not intending to direct that they need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
Monzo responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr J responded and made some 
points which Ill address below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can 
go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J was disappointed with the change of outcome in my provisional decision compared to 
what our investigator thought. I acknowledge this will have come as a disappointment. But 
when a complaint is referred for review by an ombudsman, I have to make my own findings 
independent of what our investigator has said.
Mr J again questions why any money was returned if Monzo werent at fault. The simple fact 
is that the money that was returned was all that remained to be returned. If more had 
remained, Im confident that more would have been returned. I dont agree that this indicates 
Monzo were at fault.  
Mr J says he believes the account in question has since been closed and that this wouldnt 
have happened if the account hadnt been used fraudulently. I accepted in my provisional 
decision that Mr J has been the victim of a scam. So, it isnt a question of whether or not a 
scam took place. Its a question of whether Monzo could reasonably have known (at the 
time) or done anything to prevent Mr Js loss. 
A bank cant reasonably be held responsible for the actions of all their customers. Banks 
have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams, but its unrealistic to expect 
them to be able to completely prevent all fraud. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there werent failings by Monzo that could have prevented Mr Js loss in relation to the payment he sent to their customer. So, I cant fairly tell them they ought to 
refund the loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman