DRN-4036656
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a transfer of £649 that he says he did not 
authorise.  
What happened
All parties are aware of the details of the case, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In 
summary, Mr G says his mobile phone was snatched from his hand in the early hours of 24 
December 2022. He says that the thief was able to gain access to his Revolut app and 
transfer all of his funds out totalling £649. Revolut investigated and could find no evidence of 
an account takeover, so did not uphold his claim. 
Mr G referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and felt that 
Revolut had reasonably concluded the transfer was more likely authorised by him. Mr G did 
not agree with this, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision which read as follows:
Generally, Revolut is able to hold Mr G liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account.
From the evidence provided by Revolut, the transfer was made using the app on Mr Gs 
device. While this is important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr G is liable for the 
transaction. Revolut also has to show its more likely than not that Mr G himself made or 
otherwise authorised the transaction. 
In order for an individual to access Mr Gs Revolut app, they would either need to use 
biometrics, in this case face ID, or a four-digit PIN code. Mr G has said he did not have his 
phone as it had been stolen, and the fraudster changed the password to the app to gain 
access. However, Revolut has provided evidence to show the password was only changed 
after Mr G made them aware of the disputed transaction and he was advised to change it. 
Mr G has also suggested a reminder of the password could have been requested, but 
looking at Revoluts log for that day, I cant see any evidence of this.
Revolut has also provided evidence to show biometrics were used to gain access to Mr Gs 
app at 5:25am and 7:41am, both of which are after Mr G says his phone was stolen. He has 
mentioned to our service that the fraudster may have reset the devices face ID and Ive 
considered this. Face ID was used to log into Mr Gs app at 7:41am, and this is one minute 
prior to Mr G logging in via the tablet, which he used to talk with the Revolut team in the 
chat. Revolut has said that in order to log in using the tablet, the phone number associated 
with the account on the app needed to be used. Considering this, Revoluts decision that it is 
more likely Mr G accessed the account himself using biometrics seems reasonable to me, as 
the timing of the biometrics and the tablet being used makes this feel more likely. 
I appreciate Mr Gs comments that he feels a third party trying to access the account is 
evidence of the fraud. While this can indicate an attempt at fraud, it does not evidence that a 
third party was able to access Mr Gs account in order to make the transfer. Similarly, the 
failed payment to a merchant after Mr G alerted Revolut to the disputed transaction due to a 
lack of funds also does not explain how the account was compromised. 
Ive also considered Mr Gs comments that Revolut should have flagged the payment as 
potentially fraudulent, and I agree that Revolut has a basic duty of care to its customers to 
ensure they are protected against unusual account activity. Having reviewed Mr Gs normal 
account activity, I dont think the fact it was a transfer out of most of the balance would be 
enough on its own to indicate unusual activity. And I just dont think the value of the 
payment was high enough to warrant further intervention by Revolut. So, I dont think it made 
an error when it processed the transaction without intervention. 
On balance, having carefully considered everything available to me, I currently think it was 
reasonable for Revolut to decline Mr Gs disputed transaction claim based on the evidence 
available to them.  
Revolut responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings.
Mr G did not respond with any additional comments or evidence for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to deviate from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So for the reasons outlined above, I think it was reasonable for Revolut to decline Mr Gs 
disputed transaction claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman