DRN-2887782
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because QIC Europe Limited (QIC) reduced his no claims discount (NCD) 
after it dealt with a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy. This in turn led to an 
increased premium at his next renewal.
In this final decision when I refer to QIC Im referring to QIC and all its associated agents.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr Ds parked taxi was impacted by a stolen vehicle. Mr D submitted a 
claim which was settled by QIC. QIC attempted recovery of its outlay for the claim, but as the 
third-party vehicle had being stolen and was being driven by an unidentified driver, it was 
unable to recover its losses. So, the claim was marked as settled, insured parked and 
NCD disallowed.
Mr D was very unhappy that his NCD was disallowed. He said the accident wasnt his fault, 
and he couldnt understand why he should be punished by losing the NCD he had 
accumulated when his car was parked and someone else had driven into him.
QIC wrote to Mr D and explained that it had provided full indemnity and paid for the damage 
to his vehicle. QIC said as it was unable to pursue recovery of its losses, his NCD had been 
stepped back as per the policy terms and conditions.
But Mr D remained unhappy and he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at Mr Ds complaint and advised that based on the evidence provided, QIC hadnt 
done anything wrong.
But Mr D doesnt agree, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I must reassure Mr D that I thoroughly understand how strongly he feels about this
matter. I understand why he feels this way and I appreciate how infuriating and wrong he 
believes this is.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a clause which allows the insurer to takeover, 
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And QICs policy is no 
different. It says, we are entitled to take over, defend or settle any claim under this policy in 
the name of you or any other person covered by this policy and we are entitled to take legal 
action in any such name to recover any payments we make. When anyone buys a policy, 
they are agreeing to this term. 
My role and that of this service isnt to decide what happened or to decide whose fault the 
accident was. My role here is to see if QIC applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at the cover Mr D had, the policy documents and the endorsements he had 
included on this policy. Mr D had a commercial policy to cover him to drive a taxi. And after 
he submitted his claim it came to light that the vehicle that hit his taxi had been stolen and 
was being driven at the time of impact by an unidentified driver.
When this happens, under the 1988 Road Traffic Act (the Act) the third-party insurer is no 
longer responsible for the total loss settlement. So, even though Mr D has claimed as normal 
under his own cover, if the driver is unidentified there is no mechanism in place for QIC to 
recover the amount its paid out to Mr D for the claim. 
And I can see that this is explained in the policy terms and conditions. Under the heading 
No Claims Bonus it says Please note that this is a no claim not a no blame bonus. If an 
incident occurs where another party is responsible and we have to make a payment, your no 
claim bonus entitlement will be reduced at next renewal in accordance with the applicable 
scale above unless we successfully make a full recovery of our losses from those 
responsible. The only way to prevent an NCD reduction is to protect the NCD with an 
additional premium. But from the policy schedule provided I can see that Mr D didnt have a 
protected NCD endorsement on his policy.
In this specific case I can see that QIC wrote to the third-party insurer on numerous 
occasions asking for its outlay to be repaid. The third party told QIC that the car was stolen 
and QIC asked for evidence of this. The third-party then provided a police report that Ive 
viewed. This report states the name of the investigating police office and it says, innocent 
party parked in a parking bay waiting for a fare to come out when hit by the stolen vehicle. 
So, I can see that QIC did everything it could to recover its outlay. But it had no way of doing 
so. And when this happens, the claim is recorded as settled and NCD disallowed. This is 
because even though liability is not in dispute, and its very clear that Mr D was not to blame 
for the accident, there was still a claim submitted that needed to be covered. The fact that 
Mr Ds NCD has been reduced is a reflection of the loss incurred by QIC that wasnt 
recoverable, not an indication that Mr D was to blame for the accident. 
I sympathise with Mr D, as hes clearly aggrieved by what happened and he clearly doesnt 
agree with the outcome. So, I want to reiterate to Mr D that hes not at fault for the accident, 
he didnt commit any crime and QIC didnt keep his bonus/discount. The reason hes lost 
his discount is because hes been hit by an unidentified driver and QIC are unable to reclaim 
its outlay. And the policy terms and conditions are clear about what happens when this 
occurs. 
Ive said above my role is solely to assess if QIC adhered to the terms of its policy in dealing 
with this matter. And based on what Ive seen I consider it did, so I wont be asking QIC to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman