DRN-4135865
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs Ws complaint is about a lifetime mortgage application they made through 
Key Retirement Solutions Limited (trading as The Equity Release Experts). They are 
unhappy that they were told no upfront fees would be payable for the advice or the 
application, but they were then required to pay some before the application could progress. 
As they couldnt afford the fees, they couldnt proceed with the application. They are also 
unhappy that the adviser from Key suggested that they put the fee on a credit card or ask a 
relative to pay it.
What happened
In the spring 2022 Mr R and Mrs W sought mortgage advice from Key. Key explained to 
Mr R and Mrs W that due to the length of time remaining on the lease on their home, it 
wouldnt be able to help them release equity from it. As such, they added the cost of 
purchasing the freehold for their property to their lists of requirements for the equity release 
to cover. It was detailed that in addition to this requirement, they wanted to release equity to 
complete some home improvements, pay for a holiday and provide them with an emergency 
fund. They also wanted to add the fees and costs associated with the advice and application 
to the mortgage.
The recommendation report set out what Mr R and Mrs W wanted to borrow money to cover. 
This included the home improvements they wanted to complete, the costs associated with 
buying the freehold (including legal fees) and the legal fees associated with arranging the 
mortgage. It was highlighted that purchasing the freehold can result in additional legal 
expenses and delays to your equity release completing. 
The fees and charges relating to the mortgage were detailed at various points throughout the 
documentation, and it was confirmed that they would be deducted from the advance before 
the money was sent to Mr R and Mrs Ws solicitors. In addition, the recommendation report 
confirmed that the Mr R and Mrs W should not repay any existing commitments or commit to 
any new expenditure until the scheme has been completed and you have received the 
funds.
Mr R and Mrs W applied for the recommended loan. The lender agreed to lend, but was only 
willing to offer Mr R and Mrs W just under £40,000, which was less than they had applied for. 
It was also a condition of the mortgage that the freehold was purchased either before or 
simultaneously with the mortgage advance.
As Mr R and Mrs W were purchasing the freehold for their property, which was a separate 
transaction from the legal requirements linked to the mortgage application, they had two 
firms of solicitors  one for each activity. The solicitor dealing with the matter of the freehold 
on Mr R and Mrs Ws behalf agreed to wait for the mortgage to be advanced to be paid for 
its work. However, the solicitors acting for the freeholder, the initial fees of which Mr R and 
Mrs W were liable for, were not willing to wait to be paid until the mortgage was advanced. 
As such, Mr R and Mrs W were told that they needed to pay those fees, approximately 
£1,400, in advance of the freehold purchase progressing. 
Mr R and Mrs W looked for alternative legal representation, but eventually, as they couldnt 
pay the upfront legal fees, they withdrew their mortgage application. They complained to 
Key. It responded by setting out what had happened and confirming that it could not have 
foreseen the freeholders solicitors insisting on the payment being made in advance. In 
addition, Key said that its recommendation report told Mr R and Mrs W that they shouldnt 
commit to any expenditure until the mortgage had completed. As such, it didnt consider it 
was responsible for the deposit Mr R and Mrs W said theyd lost because they had to cancel 
the home improvement works.
Mr R and Mrs W werent satisfied with Keys response and so referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the evidence and confirmed that he was 
satisfied that Mr R and Mrs W were told that the costs associated with the mortgage wouldnt 
be chargeable until the advance was granted. However, he noted that the fees they had 
been asked to pay werent to do with that transaction, but rather their purchase of the 
freehold. The investigator was satisfied that Key had made it clear to Mr R and Mrs W that 
there would be separate legal fees to do with purchasing the freehold. In addition, he was 
satisfied that Key had advised Mr R and Mrs W not to commit to spending money until the 
mortgage advance came through, and so he didnt think that it could be held responsible for 
the loss of the deposit.
Mr R and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They suggested that the 
adviser they had spoken to was lying to this service and that they had suffered a loss 
because of the advice they received. They also said that the stress of the failed application 
had caused both of their health situations to deteriorate and put forward that they might lose 
their home because of Keys poor advice. They asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
The investigator considered Mr R and Mrs Ws further comments, but he was not persuaded 
to change his conclusions. As such, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
I reviewed the complaint and invited Mr R and Mrs W to provide further evidence regarding 
the deterioration in their health and its link to the service they had received from Key. They 
didnt do so.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2023 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would explain to Mr R and Mrs W that 
while I am aware that they are unhappy with the individual mortgage adviser they spoke to, 
Key is responsible for that advisers actions. As such, I will refer to the actions of Key and 
will not mention the adviser by name, but I would like to assure Mr R and Mrs W that I am 
considering the advice and service they received from the adviser in question. 
Having read the evidence from the time of the sale, I am satisfied that it was clearly 
documented that there would be separate costs, including legal fees, for the purchase of the 
freehold. However, these costs are documented along with everything else that Mr R and 
Mrs W proposed to pay for out of the advance, including the legal costs for the new 
mortgage. While it is not explicitly stated that the costs associated with purchasing the 
freehold could be paid after the advance was paid out, for laypersons such as Mr R and 
Mrs W, I can see how they would have thought that would be the case. 
Key has said that it wouldnt have been able to tell Mr R and Mrs W whether the solicitors 
dealing with the purchase of the freehold would require anything to be paid in advance. I 
accept that is the case. However, knowing that Mr R and Mrs W had said they needed their costs to be paid from the mortgage advance, I consider that Key should have highlighted to 
them that it didnt know whether that could happen with the freehold costs. 
In the circumstances where there is an error or omission on the part of a financial business, I 
must consider what would likely have happened had the error or omission not happened. In 
this case it was an omission  that Key didnt tell Mr R and Mrs W that it didnt know if any of 
the costs associated with the purchase of the freehold would need to be paid upfront. I have 
considered what would likely have happened had Mr R and Mrs W been told this at an early 
stage. 
It is clear that the matter of the term of the freehold was mentioned early on in the 
discussions Mr R and Mrs W had with Key, and that it would mean that Key couldnt help 
them. At this point it appears that the cost of the purchase of the freehold was explored and 
added as one of their requirements. In light of this, I think that it is likely that had Mr R and 
Mrs W been told that Key didnt know if these costs could be paid from the advance, they 
would have explored this question. At this point, they would have discovered that it wasnt a 
possibility and that they couldnt proceed with the mortgage application.
So overall, Mr R and Mrs W would have ended up in the same position if Key had not 
omitted to explain its lack of knowledge about the freehold costs; that they would not be able 
to progress the application. However, that would have been at an earlier stage and their 
expectations would not have been raised. I consider that Key should pay Mr R and Mrs W 
£250 compensation for this loss of expectation.
Mr R and Mrs W have asked that Key refund the cost of the deposit they lost on the works 
they had commissioned, but had to cancel when they discovered the mortgage application 
couldnt progress. I know that this will disappoint Mr R and Mrs W, but Key advised them 
against committing to any expenditure before they received the money from the mortgage. 
As such, I cant find that Key is responsible for any loss that came about because Mr R and 
Mrs W didnt take on board that advice.
Mr R and Mrs W didnt accept my conclusions. They said they didnt think the compensation 
amount was enough.
Key responded by saying that it was unclear why I had upheld the complaint and awarded a 
compensation payment. It repeated that the fee subject to this complaint was not something 
its adviser could be expected to know about. The requirements of the lender in respect to the 
legal work done was nothing to do with the adviser. It asked that the complaint be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Key has said in relation to the sale and, as I acknowledged in my 
provisional decision, it is correct in what it has said about the legal fees. It would not be 
expected that a mortgage adviser would know what the costs associated with the purchase 
of a freehold would be and when they would need to be paid. The adviser was aware of this. 
That is not the issue in this case; it is one of poor service. Despite the adviser knowing that 
Mr R and Mrs W needed the costs associated with the mortgage arrangements to come out 
of the advance, it was not explained that the adviser didnt know whether this was possible in 
relation to the costs of the freehold purchase. The format of the documentation from the time 
added to this omission in that it included the purchase and legal costs in the list of things that 
made up the sum being borrowed. In the absence of clarification from the adviser, this would 
have added to Mr R and Mrs Ws expectation that the freehold purchase costs could be paid from the advance.
Mr R and Mrs W have said that they dont think the compensation amount is enough, but 
have not explained why. When considering compensation we look at the error or omission 
made and the impact that had on the individuals involved. In this case the impact was that 
Mr R and Mrs W had their expectations raised and there was a slight delay in them reaching 
the conclusion that they couldnt go ahead with the application Key had recommended. I 
remain satisfied that £250 is a suitable sum to compensate them for a short period of raised 
expectations and delay. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Key Retirement Solutions Limited to pay 
Mr R and Mrs W £250 compensation for the upset and inconvenience they suffered due to 
the poor service they received from it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman