DRN-1693471
Complaint
Mr P complains that Direct Auto Finance Insurance Services Ltd (Direct Auto) mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance alongside a hire-purchase agreement for a car in March 2005.
Background
Mr P took out a loan for £6,000, repayable over a term of four years. The PPI policy cost 
Mr P £1815.84 and was paid for by a single premium. That meant Mr P had to borrow extra 
on top of his loan to pay for it. Interest was also added to the premium. The policy covered 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint. He said that as Mr P was self-employed the terms 
for a self-employed person to be able to claim were quite limited. He said this restriction 
would have mattered to Mr P. He didn't think Direct Auto should have recommended the 
policy without pointing out that it did not meet all of Mr Ps needs.
Direct Auto disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said that a demands and needs 
statement was completed and signed by Mr P. This indicated his personal circumstances 
would likely have been assessed at the time of the sale and that the policy would have been 
presented in a manner so that Mr P would have understood he was eligible for the PPI and 
that it was suitable for him. It asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the same reasons given as our 
adjudicator. 
It is accepted that this was an advised sale. As such Direct Auto needed to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr Ps needs and that it was the right fit for his 
particular circumstances.
To help me decide whether the policy was suitable Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the policy and considered Mr Ps circumstances.
Mr P has told us he had been self-employed for many years. And Mr P has completed the 
application to confirm he was self-employed at the time of the sale. The policy terms state 
under the heading exclusions; Unemployment if you are self-employed, other than as a 
result of bankruptcy or the compulsory liquidation of your own business. So Mr P would 
have to have been bankrupt before he could make a claim for unemployment.
I dont think this was a suitable policy for Mr P as it would have likely been difficult for him to 
make an unemployment claim. I think it would have been for Direct Auto to point this out to Mr P. In the demands and needs statement which Mr P signed it confirms that it would meet 
the demands and needs of someone who is made redundant or unable to work if self-
employed. But if Mr P had realised that it would be more difficult for him as a self-employed 
person to claim for unemployment I dont think he likely would have thought it was good 
value for money. So I dont think he would have bought the policy.
Taking everything into consideration, I am upholding the complaint and Direct Auto will have 
to take action to put things right.
putting things right 
Mr P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been, and 
he paid more than he should have each month. So Mr P needs to get back the extra he paid.
So, Direct Auto must:
Work out and pay Mr P the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr P paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Direct Auto can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Direct Auto to take off tax from this interest. Direct Auto 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons I've set out, I uphold this complaint about Direct Auto Finance Insurance 
Services Ltd and require it to comply with the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman