DRN-1366752
 
The complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms credit card account when the account was opened. The account had two credit 
cards associated with it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
 I've decided not to uphold Mrs M's complaint. I'll explain why.
I've seen a copy of the credit card application form which Mrs M completed. It 
included a section headed "Payment Protection Plan" in which there were equally 
prominent options to take or decline the PPI. Mrs M ticked the box to indicate that 
she wished to take PPI. I'm satisfied that Barclays made Mrs M aware that the PPI 
was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice - 
although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
after the event. 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs M's told us she applied for the PPI during a meeting with 
Barclays. But I'm satisfied from the type of application form used that she applied for 
the credit card and PPI by post. So I think it's unlikely that Mrs M had any direct 
contact with Barclays' staff during the application process. And I don't think Barclays 
recommended the PPI to her. This means that Barclays didn't have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs M. It was for Mrs M to decide whether to take the PPI, 
knowing what other means shed have had of making her monthly credit card 
payments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. But Barclays still had a 
responsibility to give Mrs M clear enough information to decide for herself whether 
she wanted to take out the policy.
 I've borne in mind that Mrs M's told us she'd have been entitled to six months' full 
pay, followed by six months' half pay from her employer if she'd been off sick. But if 
she'd made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have 
paid out for up to 12 months. And it would have provided the same benefit if she'd 
made a successful unemployment claim. What's more, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mrs M received from her employer. So she could 
have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldn't have had to 
use her savings to make her credit card repayments. Taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs M.
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy. So she appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if she's understandably forgotten that now, so many 
years later. Based on what she's told us about her circumstances at the time, she 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for example, 
unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions) and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
 
So taking everything into account, I think it's unlikely that Mrs M would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
shed still have taken out the policy.
 
I've taken account of all Mrs M's points, including what she's said about the cancellation 
process for the PPI policy not having been explained. But Mrs M chose to take out the 
policy. And as she was paying for it monthly, and could have cancelled it at any time if she 
decided she no longer wanted it. If she'd wanted to cancel the cover, I think it's likely that 
she'd have contacted Barclays, and I've seen nothing to suggest that she did so. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman