DRN-1940859
The complaint
Ms S complains that when attending her car breakdown, Astrenska Insurance Limiteds 
(Astrenska) technician cleared the fault codes, making it impossible for the garage to repair 
her car.
What happened
Ms S has a road rescue policy that she bought alongside her car insurance, the cover for 
this is provided by Astrenska, but they use agents to fulfil this cover. For the purposes of this 
decision I will refer to Astrenska throughout, even when referring to one of those agents.
Ms S called Astrenska as her cars engine management light had come on. A technician 
attended the call, he downloaded a diagnostic report of the faults from the management 
system. The log showed two engine faults  Turbocharger related and two transmission 
faults  wheel sensor related. The technicians report says that he checked the levels and 
these were all ok and there were no obvious faults with the engine. So, he reset the engine 
management system to allow Ms S to drive the car to her destination.
The technician advised Ms S to have the battery checked and wheel nuts checked and 
tightened, he arranged for the report to be emailed to Ms S so she could show it to the 
repairing garage. Ms S asked if her car could be recovered to a garage for this to be done  
as she didnt feel safe driving it  this was arranged for the following day.
The garage which Ms S chose had the car for two weeks and said it was unable to find any 
faults with the car and so couldnt carry out a repair, when it was returned to Ms S the engine 
management light came back on and is still showing.
Ms S complained to Astrenska about this as she feels that if the technician hadnt reset the 
system the garage wouldve been able to identify the faults and complete the repairs. She 
said to put things right Astrenska should apologise and repair her car properly.
Astrenska didnt uphold the complaint it said that this was an issue between Ms S and the 
garage, it also said the report it had provided to Ms S contained the fault codes and so the 
garage should be able to identify any repairs needed from this. Ms S wasnt happy with 
Astrenskas response and so brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms S complaint in summary they said:
The purpose of roadside assistance is to make sure the car is mobile and get it to a 
garage, not to carry out the repairs.
It would be unfair to hold Astrenska liable for the garage not being able to utilise the 
information provided by the diagnostic report.
Ms S didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The policy Ms S has covers her for a roadside repair, if this can be done, or recovery to her 
onward destination or a repairing garage. The technician that attended to Ms S when she 
called for assistance could find no obvious reason for her not to continue driving the car  he 
checked the engine and all levels before resetting the warning light. The car was technically 
driveable, but as Ms S had said she didnt feel safe driving it Astrenska agreed to recover it 
the following morning to a garage of Ms S choice. As such I think it met its obligations here.
The faults that were causing the light to come on were detailed on the diagnostic report that 
the technician downloaded and emailed to Ms S. The garage should be able to tell from this 
what the faults were. Ms S has provided an email from the garage saying it had carried out 
extensive road testing and that it had been unable to reproduce the fault. It advised that Ms 
S should continue to monitor the situation and if it reoccurs then she should arrange for the 
car to come to it without the fault being cleared. Based on this I cant see that there is a 
repair that needs to be carried out or that Astrenska would be responsible for it if there was 
one.
Ms S says the engine management light has since come back on. So, she can, as the 
garage suggested, take the car back again to check and see if a repair is needed. If any 
repair is needed, Astrenska would not be liable for it as it isnt covered under the policy and I 
cant see that it has caused any fault to the car.
I understand that Ms S has been worried about driving the car in case it breaks down and I 
can see why she would be nervous of this, but I cant see that Astrenska has done anything 
wrong here. I know Ms S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Astrenska can do for her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman