DRN-3537852
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by Chequers Wealth Management Limited (CWML) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 16 October 2017, the BSPS provided Mr G with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £300,746.41.
Mr G says some of his colleagues had already transferred their pensions and there was a lot 
on uncertainty and concern at work about the pension scheme. So, he sought advice and 
was introduced to CWML by another adviser.
CWML recorded some information about Mr Gs circumstances. It noted that he was 54, 
married with three children. Mr G was employed earning approximately £34,500. His wife 
was also employed and earned around £25,000. And they received some rental income from 
a second property they owned. They had a mortgage on their home of approximately 
£44,000 which had a remaining term of eight years. The rental property was also mortgaged 
on an interest only basis for over £150,000. They also had two loans, totalling around £8,000 
with four years left to run. Mr and Mrs Gs combined income exceeded their outgoings with 
CWMLs notes saying they had just under £1,900 surplus disposable income per month.
CWML issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 5 December 
2017. This said Mr G intended to continue working until age 65 or 67. It said he didnt have a 
repayment vehicle for the mortgage on his second property, from which he received rent. So, 
he was interested in accessing tax-free cash from his pension to reduce that mortgage. This 
would reduce the monthly interest cost and allow him to potentially repay the remaining 
outstanding capital before retirement. And hed continue to benefit from rent in retirement. 
CWML said Mr G favoured the flexibility of a personal pension, wanted control over how his 
pension was invested and to be able to invest in line with his balanced attitude to risk and 
was interested in the alternative death benefits on offer through a personal pension.
CWML recommended that Mr G transfer his pension as this would provide him flexibility. It 
also indicated that DB pension benefits and even the safety net of the PPF was not 
guaranteed. CWML recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with 
Mr Gs attitude to risk. The suitability report also noted that ongoing advice was 
recommended and agreed to, which would come at a further cost.
Mr G complained to CWML in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt think 
the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
CWML didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said Mr G had wanted flexibility to access tax-free 
cash at age 55 to reduce his outstanding mortgage indebtedness but hadnt wanted to take 
an income. And so, the flexibility provided by transferring was important to Mr G. It also said 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), had previously reviewed the advice 
and believed it was suitable.
Mr G referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says CWML met with 
him at his home. When it did so, all of the documents to apply for a transfer were already 
prepared and he was just told that transferring was a good idea. Mr G denied that hed 
wanted access to tax-free cash to reduce the mortgage on his rental property as he was 
attempting to sell that property at the time of the advice and had since done so. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought the advice was unsuitable as 
Mr G wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. And 
he didnt think accessing tax-free cash for the reason CWML had stated was a genuine 
objective of Mr Gs. 
CWML disagreed. It reiterated it understood Mr G had wanted to clear his mortgage on his 
rental property and alleviate the pressure to meet the repayments, which it said rent was not 
covering. So, CWML still felt the advice was suitable, that Mr G had benefited from the 
flexibility this provided and reiterated the FCA also believed the reason for transferring to be 
reasonable.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They noted that the information 
from the time said rent was meeting the mortgage payments on the second property. So, 
there was no immediate need to pay off this mortgage. And the tax-free cash wouldnt have 
been enough to clear the mortgage so the purported extra income this would provide was 
not at the level CWML suggested. And Mr G would still have had to find a large sum to 
eventually clear the mortgage, if he had in fact wanted to retain the property as a source of 
income. So, he still didnt think a transfer was in Mr Gs best interests, even if this had been 
a genuine objective.
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
CWML has explained that it has carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs BSPS-
specific redress calculator. It said, having done so, the calculation showed that Mr G had not 
incurred a financial loss and so he was not owed any redress. A copy of the calculation was sent to Mr G and our service. Although it disputed that Mr G had incurred distress or 
inconvenience, CWML said it would make a payment of £300 to address this and to settle 
matters. 
I emailed Mr G and explained wed reviewed the calculation and were satisfied it had been 
completed appropriately in line with the regulators rules and guidance. And I asked if he was 
therefore willing to accept the offer of £300 made.
Mr G did not respond to my email and therefore Ive assumed he has not accepted the offer. 
In light of this, Im now providing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand CWML is still disputing that unsuitable advice has been given. But nonetheless 
it has carried out a loss calculation in line with how the Investigator believed matters should 
be resolved. So, I dont see the need to address the suitability of CWMLs advice to Mr G in 
detail. 
However, I would like to note that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons.
Ive taken on board what CWML has said about the FCA having already reviewed 
this advice and Ive looked at the summary it has provided. It would appear though 
that the review by the FCA only involved the input of one of the parties. And I dont 
know how much information it had access to or considered. In addition, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and the FCA have different roles and remits. Unlike the FCA 
our role is not a regulatory one. We are tasked with looking beyond simply whether a 
firm has complied with its regulatory requirements. Instead, we consider information 
from both parties and decide, while having regard for relevant law and regulations, 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, I dont think the FCA having undertaken a separate review prevents me from 
reaching my findings independently of the FCAs considerations.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CWML was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Gs pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.9% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 7.82%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 5.87% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 5.36%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point CWML instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr G, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And CWML didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed 
have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it 
shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the 
critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were 
likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Gs recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.8% for 10 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr G was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical 
yields for retirement at age 55 and 60  that these were significantly higher  I think 
he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF 
offered, if he retired early. And indeed the suitability report noted that it was 
unrealistic to expect the transfer option to provide a secure income equal to or better 
than the existing scheme.
CWML has said that Mr G wanted to access tax-free cash from his pension at age 55 
to reduce his mortgage on his rental property. Mr G has said that this was not 
correct, and his intention was to sell his second property, which he has since done.
This goal was recorded in the written recommendation. And may have been 
discussed at the time. But it wasnt CWMLs role just to put in place what Mr G 
mightve thought he wanted. Its role was to advise him on what was in his best 
interests. And even if Mr G indicated this was something he was considering, I dont 
think this meant a transfer was in his best interests.
The information recorded at the time of the advice indicated the rental income from 
the property was covering the mortgage repayments. And I cant see that CWML 
gathered any information which suggested that Mr G was either behind or struggling 
to meet the repayments. In fact, CWML recorded he had a surplus monthly income of 
almost £1,900. And I dont think giving up his guaranteed pension benefits to reduce 
a debt that he could afford, was in his best interests.
Part of the rationale seems to have been that clearing the mortgage on the rental 
property would provide an income stream in retirement for Mr G  by way of the rent 
being received. But the tax-free cash available from a transfer would not have 
cleared the recorded mortgage as the available sum was less than half of the 
outstanding balance. So, Mr G wouldve had to continue to meet repayments, even if 
these were marginally reduced. And hed have also had to find a way to clear the 
remaining balance, or hed have still likely have been required to sell the property 
when the mortgage term ended  which would mean he had no ongoing income from 
it. And even if he had found a way to clear the balance in full, rental income could 
fluctuate and was not guaranteed. Whereas, contrary to what CWML seemed to 
suggest in its recommendation, the pension under the BSPS2 or PPF was 
guaranteed. And appears to have been a more appropriate way to meet Mr Gs 
income needs in retirement  which is the primary purpose of a pension.
Overall, as Mr G had no plans to stop working prior to age 65 and he didnt have a 
pressing need to clear any of his outstanding debt as this appears to be affordable, 
I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
CWML said Mr G was interested in the better protection a transfer offered to his 
family by way of alternative death benefits. But the priority here was to advise Mr G 
about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death 
benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in 
the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr G drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr G may have thought it would. If Mr G had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, CWML couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant disposable income 
through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been 
considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But there's little evidence CWML did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CWML should not have 
encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Gs desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis 
hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mr G  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Mr G may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CWMLs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr G with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr G was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Gs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr G wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr G received from CWML 
was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
As Mr G has not responded to the offer made, Ive assumed he does not accept it. So, Ill 
focus in this decision on how to put things right.
The aim is to put Mr G back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. CWML carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by CWML which are personal to Mr G. These 
include Mr Gs personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65 (although the calculation 
also produced details of the cost replicating benefits under the PPF). 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Gs case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that the 
value of his pension and the benefits he has already received are sufficient to be able to 
replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr G has not suffered a financial 
loss by transferring his pension.
CWML has still offered to pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused Mr G to settle the matter
I think the calculation carried out by CWML is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr G. While the loss assessment has determined that 
Mr G hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice, I accept that finding out 
the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice  is likely to have caused him concern. 
And that this will have caused him worry, whilst the matter remained unresolved. So, I think 
CWMLs offer to pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Chequers Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr G £300 
for the worry this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman