DRN-3768319
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how Klarna Bank AB (publ) have handled her request for a 
replacement Visa credit card.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss A applied for a replacement card with Klarna. While waiting for the card, 
Miss A added it to her mobile wallet, so she was able to use it. Miss A contacted Klarna on 
14 April 2022 to let them know her card went to her old address so Klarna told Miss A that 
she needed to cancel the card and apply for a new card. In doing this, Miss A says she had 
to go through the application again to get a new card, but this time, she was told she wasnt 
eligible for it. So, Miss A contacted Klarna again on 3 May 2022 to raise a complaint about 
having to go through the application process. Miss A provided her current address and the 
advisor told her a new card was sent out and that shed receive it within 14 days. However, 
after some time, Miss A still hadnt received the card so got in touch with Klarna once more 
on 20 May 2022 to ask what had happened.
Miss A says shes spent a lot of time trying to resolve this issue  she has also shared her 
concerns that the first card and pin was sent to a previous address which could have 
impacted her financially. Miss A complains about being given incorrect information from 
Klarna  she was told multiple times that shed be receiving the card, when she didnt. Miss 
A says multiple searches have been carried out on her credit file as a result of this issue 
which has a negative impact on her.
Miss A has asked for a replacement card to be sent to her as promised originally. 
Klarna acknowledged Miss A cancelled the card and that she needed to re-apply for it. 
Klarna say in instances like this, they close the old card and a new card gets created in the 
background. But that this means customers have to be approved in the eligibility 
assessments required for a Klarna card. Klarna also explained that since Miss A first applied 
for her Klarna card, theyd updated their eligibility assessment criteria, so Klarna didnt give 
Miss A a new card. However, Klarna recognised Miss A had been misadvised on 3 May 
2022 when the advisor told her a new card was requested and was going to be delivered. 
Klarna say the advisor should have apologised for this, but overall, they didnt uphold Miss 
As complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into Miss As concerns. In summary, he explained that Klarna 
misadvised Miss A that a replacement card was sent to her, when this wasnt the case. Our 
Investigator also explained the checks that were carried out were soft checks so shouldnt 
impact Miss As credit file. Overall, our Investigator felt Miss As expectations could have 
been managed better by Klarna and by not doing this, he recognised this caused Miss A 
distress and inconvenience. So because of this, our Investigator asked Klarna to pay Miss A 
£100 compensation.
Miss A agreed with our Investigators view. But Klarna didnt. They explained they felt the 
£100 compensation was too much for the one instance where Miss A was misadvised. And 
they said they felt £50 compensation was a fairer reflection for the inconvenience caused. 
We put this offer to Miss A, but she wasnt prepared to accept it. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the issues Miss A complains of stem from the fact that Miss As card was 
sent to her previous address. Having looked at the evidence supplied by Klarna of the 
address they held for Miss A at the time, I can see its her previous address. I note Miss A 
says she updated her address with Klarna last year, but I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this was the case. In addition to this, Miss A said to Klarna on 14 April 2022 through 
their online chat I thought I had changed my address when I moved last year but when I still 
haven't received my card I double checked and realised I never. So, on balance, I think its 
more likely than not that Miss As address wasnt updated to her new address as a result of 
Miss A not making this change. 
When Miss A contacted Klarna on 3 May 2022 to let them know she wasnt able to get a 
replacement card as a result of the card being cancelled, Miss A expressed concerns about 
her credit file being impacted by Klarna. The advisor assured Miss A during this conversation 
that the credit check carried out was a soft check. A soft check is often carried out by 
lenders to look at certain information on a credit report. This check may be visible on Miss 
As credit report but shouldnt impact her credit score nor her ability to get credit in the future. 
With this in mind, Im persuaded the checks are likely to have been soft checks as Klarna 
would have needed to look at certain information before granting an application.
I note Klarna have acknowledged Miss A was misadvised on 3 May 2022 when she was told 
her replacement card had been sent out and that she would receive it in 14 days. Miss A 
was provided several reassurances that shed be able to use the card when it arrived and its 
quite clear that these reassurances were important to Miss A. When Miss A didnt receive 
the card, she contacted Klarna again and explained her frustrations at not receiving the card. 
Miss A then had to explain everything again to the new Klarna advisor on 20 May 2022 
which I think was inconvenient and frustrating for her. In addition to this, I think Klarna could 
have explained in more detail to Miss A on 14 April 2022 what it meant if she cancelled the 
card - I dont think it was clear to Miss A that if she cancelled or blocked the card, she would 
have needed to go through the application process again. I say this because this isnt how 
things usually work when someone needs to cancel a card associated to an already existing 
account. For example, if someone cancels their debit card on a current account, they 
wouldnt usually need to go through the application process for another current account. I 
also think theres a level of inconvenience involved for Miss A in having to apply for a new 
card and account, because Klarna didnt properly explain what cancelling the card would 
mean for Miss A. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me Miss A has been impacted 
financially or that the card was misused by a third party as Miss A has suggested could have 
been the case. Having considered all of this, I agree with our Investigator that £100 
compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss A.
Klarna said Miss As application was declined during the reapplication process and that there 
are many factors they take into consideration when deciding whether to offer their services 
to customers. I realise this is frustrating for Miss A, but I havent seen anything to suggest 
Klarna have acted unfairly when assessing Miss As eligibility for their card. Klarna explained 
to Miss A in their final response letter that customers who arent approved for the Klarna 
card can express interest in getting one by joining the waitlist. But that a Klarna card still isnt guaranteed as the application could still be rejected during the underwriting process. Its up 
to Miss A if she wishes to do this, but I cant require Klarna to give Miss A another card.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Klarna Bank AB (publ) to 
pay Miss A £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman