DRN-3435524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the service provided by Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Ltd (RSA) in relation to their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out home insurance online with RSA in May 2015. At the time trace and 
access was not available with the policy. The policy was renewed every year on a non-
advised basis. 
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their policy following an escape of water. 
RSA accepted the claim but declined the cost of trace and access. Mr and Mrs C accepted 
that their policy didnt cover trace and access but werent happy that RSA hadnt told them at 
each renewal that trace and access could have been included as an option with a new home 
insurance policy. If they had, Mr and Mrs C say that they would have taken out the new 
policy and would therefore have been covered for trace and access in October 2021. They 
would like RSA to cover the costs of the trace and access as part of the October 2021 claim. 
RSA said that they introduced a new home insurance policy in October 2015 which included 
the option of trace and access. They said that as Mr and Mrs Cs policy was bought on a 
non-advised basis, it was not for them to advise when a new product came onto the market. 
They said that they sent renewal documents to Mr and Mrs C each year and reminded them 
that they should check to see that the cover still met their needs. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with RSAs response and brought their complaint to this 
service. They said they should have been informed when trace and access became 
available, and in particular after a similar escape of water claim they made in January 2021 
when the issue of them not having trace and access first arose.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that the policy was sold, and renewed, on a non-advised basis, and it was for Mr 
and Mrs C to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. He thought it was unreasonable to 
expect RSA to inform customers of new products. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for 
the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA provide home insurance policies on a non-advised basis. This means that they dont 
advise or recommend a particular policy to their customers. They simply provide information 
and it is for the customer to decide whether the policy is suitable for their needs. Mr and Mrs 
C took out their policy with RSA online, and as such they chose the cover that was suitable 
for them in May 2015.
Ive seen the renewal documents RSA sent to Mr and Mrs C each year. I think these make it 
clear that RSA is not authorised to provide advice or recommendations. Customers are 
asked to read all the policy information to make sure that the cover still meets their needs. 
The schedules clearly set out what is included in the policy and Ive read the home insurance 
booklet which explains in more detail what the policy does and doesnt cover. In the keyfacts 
section at page 7 it says, We do not cover the cost of removing and replacing any part of 
the buildings necessary to trace leaking oil or water or repairing damage caused by such 
investigations. This is trace and access  and I think its clear that this isnt included in the 
policy. If Mr and Mrs C had wanted this cover, they could have spoken to RSA about it or 
looked elsewhere for cover.
RSAs duty is to make sure the consumer is given enough information that is clear, fair and 
not misleading so that they can make an informed choice about whether the policy they have 
chosen is right for them. Having read the documents I think that RSA have done this. I dont 
think RSAs duty extends to providing information about new products that become 
available. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C say that they didnt know what trace and access was before 
their claim in October 2021, and so couldnt have asked RSA to include it in their policy. 
However, I dont think it was RSAs duty to inform them  and as noted above it was 
mentioned in the policy booklet. Im aware that Mr and Mrs C say that RSA have now sent 
them information about upgrading the policies of existing customers to include trace and 
access. Whilst this makes good marketing sense for RSA, I dont think this was something 
they were required to do. They are not responsible for informing their customers of all new 
products that come on to the market that may, or may not, be suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs C say that RSA should have, in particular, offered them trace and access at their 
May 2021 renewal following their claim in January that year. However, again I dont think this 
was RSAs responsibility  they are not authorised to provide advice or recommendations on 
adding cover to a policy. As part of their claim was declined in January 2021, I think Mr and 
Mrs C would have been aware at that stage that their cover might be lacking in some 
respect. This is something that could have been discussed with RSA at renewal if they 
wished. 
I know that this will not be the decision that Mr and Mrs C were hoping for and I do 
understand their frustrations at not having trace and access cover. However, I dont think 
that RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman