DRN-3355247
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with how Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very dealt with 
her financial difficulties.
Mr A and Mrs A have entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement with Company I 
relating to their sole and joint debts, including Mrs As account with Very. So, both Mr A and 
Company I have an interest in this complaint. However, as the account with Very was in Mrs 
As sole name, for ease of reference my decision will only refer to Mrs A.
What happened
Mrs A had a catalogue shopping account with Very. In May 2019 she was in financial 
difficulties and the balance outstanding on her account was £2,758.55. But some of the 
items that made up the outstanding balance had been purchased on a Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) deal, where no interest would be charged if the purchase price was repaid by a 
certain date. 
Very agreed to Mrs A making reduced payments of £13.37, and they suspended interest and 
charges. But they told Mrs A that the BNPL interest would still be applied. And, between 20 
May and 7 December 2019, BNPL interest was applied to Mrs As account.
In November 2019, Mrs A told Very that she was unable to afford the payments because of a 
further change to her financial circumstances. Very put her account on hold for three months 
suspending further interest and charges. But they continued to charge BNPL interest.
In February 2020, after taking advice from a debt advice charity, Mrs A told Very she was 
only able to afford £1 a month. Very reviewed the situation and said the best outcome would 
be to default the account. Mrs A wasnt happy with how Very had dealt with matters and she 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the budget summary Mrs A provided to Very in May 2019 was 
produced by a third-party debt company, and it said Mrs A had £302.75 a month available to 
repay 14 creditors. So, she thought this was reasonable to rely on. And Mrs As financial 
situation didnt improve during the six months Very agreed to accept a reduced payment.
Because of this, as it made her situation worse, the investigator didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Very to apply the BNPL interest. And she thought Mrs As debts would be in a 
better position now had they not done this. As Mrs A was also unemployed, and in receipt of 
universal credit, the investigator also said that Very adding the BNPL interest caused Mrs A 
undue stress.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines for customers in arrears says that 
financial businesses should treat them with forbearance and due consideration. And the 
investigator didnt think that adding the BNPL interest was doing this, given the 
circumstances. So, she said Very should remove the BNPL interest and pay Mrs A an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs A agreed with the investigators decision, but Very asked for an extension to 3 March 
2022 to provide their comments. Following this, they asked for further extensions to 7 March 
and 23 March 2022. Despite these being granted, Very didnt respond to the investigators 
view. So, this case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Due to her business having trading difficulties, Mrs A was unable to maintain payments to all 
her creditors, including Very. On 13 May 2019 she offered Very a reduced payment of 
£13.37 a month. In an email dated 23 May 2019, Very told Mrs A theyd accepted her offer 
and set up a six month payment arrangement. They also told her weve suspended 
administration charges for the duration of the agreed repayment plan and we wont charge 
you any further interest to support you with keeping up-to-date with your arrangement.
However, in an email dated 7 June 2019, Very clarified we are not applying any interest to 
your account. Please be aware that if you have purchased items on [BNPL], any interest that 
has accrued in the payment free period prior to suspension. Will still be charged to your 
account. And, between May and December 2019, Very charged BNPL interest to Mrs As 
account, increasing the outstanding balance.
On 20 November 2019, Mrs A advised Very of a change in her financial circumstances. She 
said she wasnt working, was in receipt of universal credit, and her income didnt cover her 
general living expenses. Because of this, Very placed account on hold for three months, 
suspended all interest and charges. However, they again told her that any [BNPL] interest 
that has accrued in the payment free period prior to the suspension, will still be charged to 
your account. And they continued to charge BNPL interest.
In February 2020, due to the change in Mrs As financial situation, she offered Very a 
nominal payment of £1 a month. Very refused to accept this because it would only affect 
your credit file and financial hardship over a longer period. And they said the best course of 
action would be to default the account.
Under the rules set down by the FCA, a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that Very did this when the agreed to both the six-month payment plan in May 2019, and by 
putting Mrs As account on hold for three months in November 2019.
But I dont think Very acted fairly in the circumstances by having a two-tier process for 
suspending interest, and by not including the BNPL interest when suspending the interest. In 
rejecting Mrs As request for a nominal payment in February 2020, Very said doing so would 
put Mrs A in a position whereby her financial hardship increased over time. But this is the 
exact thing they did when the continued to charge BNPL interest while Mrs A was on an 
agreed repayment plan. Which resulted in her making all the agreed payments but still owing 
substantially more at the end of the repayment plan than she did at the beginning.
Given this, I think Very need to take further action.Putting things right
For the reasons already stated, I dont think Very acted fairly by continuing to apply BNPL 
interest to Mrs As account, while all other interest and charges had been suspended. So, I 
think Very should restructure their debt by removing all BNPL interest they charged after 14 
May 2020  when Mrs A made them aware of her financial difficulties and proposed a 
repayment plan which they accepted.
Whats more, Ive seen from the correspondence Mrs A sent Very that their decision to 
continue to charge BNPL interest caused her upset and added to the stress of the situation 
shed found herself in. And I think Very should compensate her for this.
So, Very should:
remove any BNPL interest applied to Mrs As account from 14 May 2020, and
pay Mrs A an additional £100 for the distress and upset their decision to continue to 
apply BNPL interest caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs As complaint. And Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Very should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr A and 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman