DRN-3850305
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mrs and Mr P used to hold with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  Theyre unhappy with how Halifax treated them 
when they fell into arrears on the mortgage after their tenant stopped paying the rent, and 
that Halifax eventually sold the mortgaged property in possession for less than they think 
it was worth. As a result of Halifaxs actions, Mrs and Mr P say theyve lost around 
£100,000 and suffered damage to their credit records.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr P and Halifax. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr P being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
Ill begin by reiterating an important point about the scope of our investigation. Halifax made 
the decision to appoint LPA Receivers; thats allowed under the Law of Property Act (1925) 
and the mortgage contract. Also, I think Halifax had some justification in making the 
appointment; the mortgage was over £30,000 in arrears at the point the decision was taken, 
in March 2021. 
Once appointed, the Receivers acted for Mrs and Mr P, not for the bank. That means that if 
any of the losses for which Mrs and Mr P seek redress flow from decisions the Receivers 
took as their agent, as opposed to from what Halifax did after the Receivers stood down, 
they dont fall with my remit. Its up to Mrs and Mr P whether they wish to pursue a claim 
against the Receivers rather than Halifax; its not something we can deal with as we dont 
have any jurisdiction over LPA Receivers.
Recording an incorrect address
Halifax has admitted, that for a period of time during 2020 and 2021, it had recorded an 
incorrect correspondence address for Mrs P. That meant that post intended for her attention 
went to the wrong place. However, whilst clearly an error, our investigator wasnt persuaded 
it had a material effect on the overall outcome.  Ive thought carefully about that, and am 
inclined to agree. Ultimately, the agenda for what happened and when it happened was 
driven largely by the time frame for evicting the tenants. I dont think anything would have 
happened differently if Mrs Ps correspondence address had been correct. Also, Mr P has 
told us Halifax was sending correspondence to him at the correct address.
Taking possession and selling at a loss
The property in question wasnt Mrs and Mr Ps home, but a BTL property. The mortgage on 
it was not subject to regulation, so although Mrs and Mr P were still entitled to fair treatment 
from Halifax, the test of what is fair in the circumstances is not as rigorous as that which 
would apply in respect of a regulated residential mortgage. 
Whilst Mrs and Mr P had begun legal proceedings to evict the tenants themselves, that 
process had been delayed by the effects of the pandemic. By the time the tenants were 
eventually evicted, the property was being managed on Mrs and Mr Ps behalf by the LPA 
Receivers. When the tenants left, the property came into the LPA Receivers possession. 
That was in July 2021. 
At that point, the LPA Receivers would have made a decision on what should happen next. 
I dont know, and wont surmise on, what factors the LPA Receivers took into account (not 
least because its beyond my remit to do so) but they decided to begin marketing the 
property for sale, pending standing down and returning of the property to Halifaxs control. 
The process of the Receivers standing down was finalised at the beginning of 
September 2021, and control of the property retuned to Halifax. So Halifax found itself in 
possession of a mortgaged property that was for sale, as a consequence of actions and 
decisions taken by the LPA Receivers in their capacity as Mrs and Mr Ps agents. Once the 
property was in its possession, Halifax had its own decision to make on what to do with the 
property, and after giving Mrs and Mr P a grace period to try and re-finance it, Halifax 
decided to proceed with selling it. Generally speaking, we wont interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement, and I dont think theres any reason to here. 
In the circumstances of a mortgage in heavy arrears and a property with no tenant, I cant 
say it was unfair on reasonable of Halifax to sell the house. Thats not a process that 
involves the borrowers; its something for a lender to conduct in its own right, generally by 
engaging third parties (solicitors, estate agents, and asset managers for example) to act as its agents. All Id then expect a lender to do is to notify the borrowers once a sale has 
completed, and account for the transaction. Halifax clearly did that here.
Mrs and Mr P believes Halifax mis-handled the sale and failed to achieve a fair price for the 
property. It seems to me that Mrs and Mrs Ps starting point in this aspect of the complaint is 
an offer theyd received from a limited company February 2021, to buy the property for 
£925,000. Ill come back to that offer in a little while, but in the meantime Ill explain why it 
wont have been a reference point for Halifax when deciding how much to sell the house for. 
The evidence Ive seen convinces me that Halifax took the steps Id expect it to; that is:
establish independent professional opinions on the propertys likely market value; and 
sell it for the best price achievable within a reasonable amount of time, mindful that 
interest continues to accrue on the outstanding debt until a sale has completed.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr Ps strength of feeling, but the evidence doesnt support their claim 
of a sale below value. Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is willing to pay 
for it at the time it being marketed. 
Offers to re-finance the property or the arrears
I mentioned earlier that Mrs and Mr P received an offer from a company to buy the house for 
£925,000. Ive seen the written offer, which came from a company Ill call J. J made the 
offer to Mrs and Mr P in February 2021; several months before the tenants were finally 
evicted. 
Mrs and Mr P say they wrote telling Halifax of the offer, but they dont say when; and of 
course, they wouldnt have needed Halifaxs permission to accept an offer to buy the house 
at that point. They say they wrote chasing a response on 7 April 2021, by which time the 
LPA Receiver had been appointed. From that point on, at least until the Receivership ended 
in September 2021, any consideration of whether a sale to J could go ahead was a matter 
for the LPA Receivers rather than Halifax, and so its not something I can consider. All I 
would add, going back a moment to the sale price Halifax achieved, is that if J had still 
wished to buy the property for £925,000, it could presumably have made an offer to the 
selling agent marketing the property in possession. 
Another attempt was made to repay the mortgage, by way of a transfer of the property from 
Mrs and Mr P to a limited company; the funding was to come from a lender Ill call O. 
O issued an indicative agreement in principle, in July 2021. Mrs and Mr P have said this was 
rejected as being illegal. Theyve said that both Halifax and the LPA Receivers said this. 
Ultimately, however, any decisions that were made during the period the property was under 
the control of the LPA Receivers were the responsibility of the LPA Receivers, so this falls 
outside my remit.
In August 2021, Mrs and Mr P sought finance by way of a second charge loan to repay the 
arrears. An offer in principle was issued from a lender Ill call M on 18 August 2021 but 
didnt proceed: again, this happened during the Receivership. After the Receivership ended, 
Im satisfied Halifax gave Mrs and Mr P a reasonable grace period to try and turn an 
agreement in principle into actual funding before deciding to proceed with the sale. 
Credit file reporting
Mrs and Mr P have said their efforts to obtain new funding was hampered by adverse 
information about the mortgage being reported on their credit files. Ive not seen their credit 
files, so Im not in a position to assess the information Halifax reported, or indeed whether 
the files might contain information from other creditors that could impact on Mrs and Mr Ps credit-worthiness. However, as a general principle, lenders are required to report factually 
correct information about borrowers payment records, and its not in dispute that the 
mortgage was in substantial arrears. So it would be hard for me to conclude that 
Mrs and Mr Ps respective credit files should not show this.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions the determination with which Mrs and Mr P 
have brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank 
has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable.
 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a 
particular viewpoint, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may, I have 
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes 
taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done 
so, I cant find in Mrs and Mr Ps favour, however much they think I should.
For the mistakes Halifax made in addressing letters to the wrong place, it has paid what I 
consider to be fair compensation. Insofar as Im not persuaded those mistakes changed 
what happened subsequently, there are no reasonable grounds for me to order Halifax to do 
more by way of redress. 
Mrs and Mr P dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Halifax will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Ps right to take legal action against Halifax over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman