DRN-1695580
The complaint
Ms L has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) wont 
allow her to cash in her annuity and take the cash as a lump sum payment.
What happened
Ms L took out her annuity in 2002. It was set up to pay her just over £330 per year for the 
rest of her life. She also took the tax-free lump sum amount she was entitled to when she set 
this up which amounted to just under £2,000.
In June 2019, Ms L found herself and her husband in severe financial difficulties due to ill 
health and an inability to work, so she approached Prudential to ask if she could cash in the 
annuity and just take it as one lump sum of cash. As well as her financial situation she also 
explained that her regular annuity payments put her above the threshold for receiving 
government benefits which added to her difficult financial situation.
Prudential looked into the matter but was unable to allow Ms L to cash the annuity in 
because the terms and conditions of her annuity contract didnt allow for this. Unhappy with 
this response Ms L brought her complaint to this Service where it was assessed by one of 
our investigators. He agreed with Prudential that the terms and conditions of the contract 
specified that because the annuity was a lifetime promise it couldnt be cashed in once it had 
started.
As Ms L remained unhappy with the assessment and no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
I fully appreciate Ms L is in a very difficult position financially. But the role of this Service is to 
identify if a business had made an error or if it has acted unfairly or unreasonably causing 
some element of detriment to a consumer. If this is the case, I am able to compel that 
business to take action to resolve the problem.
In this complaint, however, Prudential is acting in line with its terms and conditions by 
refusing to allow Ms L to cash in her annuity. So, I dont think any error has been made.  
I know Ms L will be of the view that Prudential is acting unreasonably by adhering to these 
terms and conditions, but I dont think it is. This specific term of the contract that binds both 
parties seems entirely reasonable to me and not an unfair or onerous one.
I appreciate that legislation does allow annuities to be paid as a lump sum in certain 
circumstances, but this doesnt mean Prudential has to do this if it has made a business 
decision to not allow such action and this has been made clear to its customers at the outset 
of the contract. Having looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Ls annuity contract from 2002 I am satisfied this is the case. Its reasonable that Ms L should have been aware that 
she couldnt cash in her annuity at any point.  While I appreciate she may have felt there was 
no harm in asking, when Prudential refused to allow her to do this it wasnt acting 
unreasonably nor did it make an error.
Overall, I would expect any business to act in line with the terms that bind it (providing those 
terms are not unreasonable or unfair) and this is what Prudential has done here. I therefore 
dont think Prudential has done anything wrong. And while I know this will be very 
disappointing for Ms L I cant ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman