DRN-3308998
The complaint
Mr G complains Madison CF UK Limiteds own errors have led to him being unable to take 
out credit with it.
What happened
Mr G is an existing customer of Madison. He applied for a £4,000 loan with Madison after 
being sent a promotional offer. When he did so the application was declined and an error 
message appeared. Mr G contacted Madison regarding this error and it explained there was 
a fault on its system which it would look to remove. In acknowledging its error Madison 
offered Mr G £75 compensation.
Mr G made a further attempt to apply for the loan but the same issue reoccurred. Mr G 
brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt able to complete the loan in time to take 
advantage of the promotional offer. Mr G says he has lost out financially as he had intended 
to repay some debts with this loan including his Madison credit card. He says he had to take 
a loan out on less preferable terms with a different lender.
Whilst looking into this complaint, Madison sent a further explanation to our service. It 
explained the application was likely declined due to an input error in relation to Mr Gs 
address. In recognising the continued difficulties Mr G faced Madison increased its total 
compensation award to £175. Madison confirmed the loan offer was no longer available to 
Mr G. 
Our investigator didnt think Madison needed to do anything further in relation to Mr Gs 
complaint. He acknowledged the errors were not his fault; but felt it could not be confirmed 
that Mr G wouldve obtained the credit he wanted as a direct result of Madisons error. He 
explained that as Mr G had not received any credit from Madison we could not recommend 
any further redress such as giving Mr G the loan; as this was a commercial decision for 
Madison. Our investigator felt the compensation offered was sufficient to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate the strength of feeling and the frustration Mr G has in relation to this 
complaint; Im not persuaded Madison needs to do anything further.
Whilst all parties agree that Madison made errors; Im not persuaded this had led to a direct 
financial loss for Mr G such that Madison needs to do more to put things right. I say this 
because while Madison did send Mr G proactive offers, it is clear in the marketing that any 
decision is subject to further checks and terms and conditions.
As our investigator correctly explained to Mr G it is not possible to say on balance whether 
had Mr G applied for the loan that he wouldve been successful considering these further 
checks would always have taken place. There is also an equal possibility that Mr G may not 
have been approved at the capital level or rate that was being applied for either. Ultimately, 
Ive not been provided with sufficient information to demonstrate that Mr G wouldve likely 
received the loan he applied for. And on that basis Im unable to say Madison should do 
more. 
Mr G says he has lost out financially as he had to use a different credit card instead of this 
anticipated loan. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt what Mr G is saying, I cant reasonably say 
any loss from this should be attributed to Madison either. Again, Mr G has made a decision 
to use other credit providers to complete purchases (such as paying for some home 
improvements). The payments which have come as a result of those decisions arent directly 
linked to Madisons error in this instance.
Madison has offered a total of £175 to Mr G in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
it has caused him. Considering that this was one error which happened repeatedly over a 
relatively short period of time; Im satisfied this award is in line with our services approach. 
As such I dont require Madison to increase this award either. 
My final decision
Madison CF UK Limited has agreed to pay Mr G £175 in total for this complaint. As such my 
final decision is that Madison CF UK Limited should make this payment to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman