DRN-2136005
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined a claim she made under
her landlords insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
Ms D made a claim to Covea after her tenants noticed damage to the conservatory. Covea
appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. Investigations were carried out to establish
the depth of the foundation and the soil conditions beneath the conservatory. Based on the
results of those investigations, Covea declined the claim.
Ms D didnt think this was fair and complained to Covea. It initially said it wasnt clear from
the loss adjusters report whether the claim should be covered or not. It later said it was
satisfied the claim had been correctly declined. It said the conservatory foundations were
inadequate, taking into account the presence of trees, associated guidelines, and good
practice at the time of construction. Ms D remained unhappy and referred her complaint to
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In her view, the guidelines Coveas loss adjuster had
relied on didnt apply to Ms Ds conservatory. She also noted that in one report the loss
adjuster had said the foundation ought to have been at least 900mm deep. But tree roots,
thought to be responsible for the problem, had been found much deeper than this. So, the
investigator thought that even if the foundation had been built deeper, a problem would still
have occurred anyway.
Covea didnt accept this. It said 900mm was a minimum depth, before taking into account
other factors, such as nearby trees. It suggested the foundation ought to have been nearly
1,800mm deep. It said the foundation designer should consider all variable parameters, but
failed to do so.
Ms D said the damage to the conservatory was causing inconvenience to her tenants, and
she had lost out on some of the rent they would usually pay as a result.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not damage arising from poor design, 
defective materials or faulty workmanship.
Covea accepts the conservatory has been damaged by subsidence and says this was
caused by clay shrinkage due to nearby trees. But it thinks the foundation was poorly
designed because it wasnt deep enough. The onus is on Covea to show this is the case if it
wishes to rely on this policy term to decline the claim.
Coveas loss adjuster considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes. It
says this requires a minimum foundation depth of 900mm and, taking into account the
nearby trees, recommends a depth of around 1,800mm. Although I understand where these
figures come from. Ms Ds conservatory wasnt subject to these standards at the time it was 
built. The conservatory wasnt built as a part of a new home  the builder wasnt required to 
take into account the standards for any other reason. So, I dont think it would be fair to 
judge the design of the foundation against these particular standards  they simply dont 
apply.
The loss adjuster said theres robust advice within the conservatory industry about
foundation design. It said the advice includes recommendations that the foundations of the
house and the ground conditions are taken into account. But it hasnt provided anything
more specific to show what guidance it thinks ought to have been taken into account when
this particular conservatory was built.
Covea does accept the conservatory was exempt from building regulations, but said it still
needed to be built correctly. I understand the general point Covea is making. The builder
wasnt required to comply with the standards set out in the building regulations when
designing the conservatory foundation. But I think its fair to say the builder had a duty to
build the conservatory structure to an appropriate standard. That includes designing the
foundation to ensure its likely to support the structure for a reasonable period of time,
bearing in mind the circumstances at the time it was built.
Covea seems to have suggested that the builder ought to have at least considered the
building regulations. In my view it would be reasonable to take into account the relevant
guidance and best practice available at the time of construction. But to be clear, this wasnt a
requirement to meet building regulations. Arguably, the regulations (that dont apply here)
still do offer a good indication of the type of foundation depth that would be appropriate.
At the time the conservatory was built, building regulations generally required a minimum
foundation depth of 900mm. I note the foundation of the main house is 850mm and I
understand its common practice to build extension foundations to a similar depth as the main
house. So arguably the conservatory foundation ought to have been built to this kind of
depth in order to be designed to a reasonable standard. In this instance the foundation of the
conservatory is 470mm.
Roots thought to be causing subsidence were found 1,800mm below the conservatory. But
that means even if the building regulations, that dont apply here, had been followed and
even if the conservatory foundation had been built to a depth of around 850-900mm, the
roots would still be beneath the conservatory and at a significant further depth below it. Our
investigator pointed this out to Covea and suggested this meant there would have been a
subsidence problem even if the foundation had been built in line with building regulations.
Covea had the opportunity to challenge this suggestion and provide engineering evidence to
support that if it wished. In response, Covea didnt challenge the point made by the
investigator, or provide any engineering opinion about the impact of a deeper foundation on
the subsidence. Because of that I think its likely a subsidence problem would still have
occurred, even if the foundation was around 850-900mm deep. Covea said this point was
irrelevant. I disagree.
The policy term Covea relied on to decline the claim is about damage arising from poor
design. Weve established the standards Covea took into account when declining the claim
arent applicable to the conservatory. Covea hasnt provided any alternative standards it
thinks the foundation ought to have complied with. And Covea accepts the conservatory
wasnt subject to building regulations. However, it considers the regulations should havebeen followed. But even if the conservatory foundation had met those regulations, its likely 
the conservatory would still have suffered a subsidence problem. Ive not heard arguments, 
or more importantly seen evidence, to the contrary from Covea.
This indicates designing the foundation to a greater depth than was required wouldnt have
prevented the subsidence problem. So, I dont think its fair to say the damage has arisen
from poor design  and that means its not fair for Covea to decline the claim by relying on
the poor design policy term.
To put things right, Covea should now accept the claim for subsidence damage and deal
with it.
In addition, I note that some further concerns were raised about Ms Ds claim for loss of rent.
I dont think thats been fully resolved yet so I think Covea should consider Ms Ds claim for
loss of rent subject to the production of relevant evidence.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms D responded to agree with my provisional decision. She also said a neighbouring 
property had been suffering subsidence, seemingly caused by the same tree affecting her 
conservatory. She said the tree had been lopped but needed removing completely.
Covea also responded and made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
Previous decisions made by this service refer to good building practice in relation to 
conservatories;
The Sale of Goods Act requires any commodity purchased to be fit for purpose and 
shouldnt be ignored;
Although some structures are exempt from planning laws and/or building regulations 
this doesnt remove the need to comply with the Act;
Guidance applied by a certain builder of new homes has been available for a long 
time for the construction of foundations in clay soils when building near trees;
The conservatory foundation doesnt comply with that guidance and is therefore 
faulty in its design and construction;
But for the faulty design of the foundation, the conservatory wouldnt have subsided;
No loss of rent claim has been made by Ms D and no loss of rent claim applies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion Covea has relied upon to decline the claim is for damage arising from poor 
design, defective materials or faulty workmanship. Essentially Covea is saying the 
foundation was poorly designed because it wasnt deep enough.
To justify why it thinks the foundation wasnt deep enough, its relied on guidance from a 
certain builder of new homes. As I explained in my provisional decision, this guidance or set 
of standards simply didnt apply to Ms Ds conservatory. And I dont think it would be fair to 
hold the conservatory foundation to a set of guidelines that it didnt have to comply with.
In its response to my provisional decision, Covea hasnt raised any other guidance or set of 
standards it thinks the conservatory ought to have complied with.The conservatory is exempt from building regulations. But even if it had complied with them 
and the foundation had been around 850-900mm deep, roots thought to be causing the 
subsidence problem were found around 1,800mm below ground level. As I noted in my 
provisional decision, this means the roots would have been significantly deeper than the 
foundation, even if it had complied with building regulations. And because of that I thought it 
was likely a subsidence problem would still have occurred even with a deeper foundation.
In response to my provisional decision, Covea didnt comment on or challenge my thinking 
on the likelihood of subsidence movement still occurring if the foundation had complied with 
building regulations.
Instead it said the roots were just below the calculated correct foundation depth and that 
meant the likelihood of subsidence movement would have been negligible. But this is the 
depth specified in the guidance from a certain builder of new homes  which doesnt apply 
here.
Covea said the conservatory wouldnt have subsided were it not for what it called the 
woeful foundation. But apart from its comment based on the guidance which doesnt apply, 
it didnt offer anything further to explain why the conservatory wouldnt have subsided. So, 
theres no evidence to suggest deeper foundations wouldve made any difference. 
At this stage Covea has asked me to consider the Sale of Goods Act. I understand the Act 
covers, amongst other things, contracts where a trader supplies a consumer with goods, 
such as a conservatory. The Act includes requirements for the goods to be of satisfactory 
quality and fit for purpose, together with other requirements. It seems Covea is saying the 
conservatory didnt comply with the requirements of the Act.
In this case, the Act would be relevant to the contract between Ms D and the conservatory 
supplier or installer. Im not looking at a dispute between those parties. Im making a 
decision for Ms Ds complaint about the way Covea handled her insurance claim. The 
exclusion Covea has relied upon doesnt mention the Act. And Ms Ds complaint against 
Covea isnt about the supply of the conservatory and whether that complied with the Act. So, 
I dont think the Act is relevant when considering whether Covea has treated Ms D fairly.
Covea referred to some previous decisions issues by this service and pointed out some 
have referred to good building practice in relation to conservatories. Other than the points 
above, which Ive explained my reasoning for, it hasnt explained what impact it thinks that 
has on Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D has told us shes lost out on money from rent as a result of the subsidence problem. I 
understand she hasnt presented a claim to Covea yet, so Covea hasnt had a chance to 
fully consider it yet. Because of that I think it would be unfair for me to reach a conclusion on 
whether the claim should be accepted and dealt with or not. So, my decision is for Covea to 
consider the loss of rent claim. It should let Ms D know what information it will require from 
her, consider that information if she provides it, and let her know the outcome. 
I note what Ms D has said about the nearby tree. My decision is for Covea to deal with the 
subsidence claim. It will be for Covea to decide what the most appropriate next steps for the 
claim are, including how to stop the subsidence movement and stabilise the conservatory to 
ensure an effective and lasting repair can be carried out. This may involve removing the tree 
Ms D has mentioned but Covea may be able to achieve it by other means.Putting things right
deal with the subsidence claim;
consider the loss of rent claim;
both subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Covea Insurance plc to:
deal with the subsidence claim;
consider the loss of rent claim;
both subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman