DRN-3701162
The complaint
Ms T complains that when she crystallised her pension with Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited, she was told the tax-free cash amount to be paid was £112,286.11 but she only 
received £109,134; the transactions werent all completed on the correct day; and an amount 
of £1,380.45 which should have been paid to her was left uncrystallised.
What happened
Ms Ts independent financial adviser (IFA) phoned Aviva on 1 March 2022. The IFA said 
Ms T wanted to crystallise her pension and take 25% of it as tax-free cash. Avivas call 
handler confirmed the value of the pension fund and said they would proceed with the 
transaction.
The IFA emailed after the phone call confirming Ms T needed the funds and due to the 
volatility in the markets at that time had agreed to the valuation on that day. 
Aviva started to sell funds in Ms Ts pension the same day. By Monday 7 March 2022 all the 
funds had settled. On 8 March Aviva confirmed the system had crystallised with the account 
value being £436,537.40 and the tax-free cash payment of £109,134.35 was made.
Ms T complained with the help of her IFA about the value paid out. She also complained that 
a sum of £1,380.45 had been left uncrystallised, which was an issue because if she didnt 
crystallise the full value this would be treated as an unauthorised payment, with a tax 
charge.
Aviva didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the sum of £1,380.45 was due to late 
payment of dividends, received after the crystallisation. It processed this under the same 
instruction and made a payment of £420.50 as tax-free cash.
Ms Ts IFA asked for details of the transactions and after receiving these, said the total sales 
amounted to £114,805, which was more than figure quoted. Aviva explained this was 
because it sold slightly more than the amount requested, to allow for changes in fund values 
and ensure enough cash was received to make the tax-free cash payment.
Ms T wasnt happy with Avivas explanations and referred the complaint to this service. She 
said Aviva should pay her the difference of £3,164 between the figure quoted and the 
amount she had received, together with the £1,380.45 that had not been crystallised and 
compensation for the stress and anxiety caused. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva was at fault in the way it had processed the transaction or 
that it should pay Ms T the difference in value. But she thought there had been some poor 
communication and compensation of £300 should be paid to reflect the distress caused by 
this.
Ms T disagrees. She says: 
Aviva told her IFA she would get the higher figure and so that amount should be paid; 
the compensation should be higher due to the impact on her  in particular, she 
needed funds to pay the deposit on a house purchase and had to postpone this.
Aviva doesnt agree that it should pay any compensation. It says: 
it dealt with the process on the day requested, there was no delay, and the correct 
values were used;
the adviser didnt say the values might change but on the other hand, they were 
simply quoting the figures at that time, which were correct  and there would be 
some expectation that an IFA would have known the values were not locked in and 
could change; 
the fact the values were not guaranteed was confirmed in the documents sent that 
day and the IFA could have checked. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id expect Aviva to act professionally, with due diligence, and treat its customer fairly. When 
Ms Ts IFA asked Aviva to crystallise the pension funds and make the tax-free cash 
payment, it should have dealt with this promptly, and provided clear information about the 
process.
Aviva acted on the IFAs instructions promptly; it started the process to sell funds on the 
same day as the phone call. One of the fund sales has a date of 2 March 2022, but it was 
requested on 1 March. Once the sales had been processed, the pension was crystallised 
and the tax-free cash paid. There was no delay in the process. 
Ms T says the figure quoted on 1 March 2022 should have been paid to her. But Aviva has 
explained that this couldnt be guaranteed. There were no funds held in cash which it could 
use to make the tax-free cash payment. So it had to sell funds. The values go up and down 
so it couldnt guarantee the amounts until the funds had all been sold. Its unfortunate for 
Ms T that the values were a little lower, but thats not due to any failure by Aviva. 
However, I agree with the investigator that the information Aviva provided could have been 
clearer. Ive listened to the call on 1 March 2022. The IFA asked for the amounts to be 
confirmed and the figure stated for the tax-free cash was the higher amount. The adviser 
didnt say this wasnt guaranteed or might change (though he did say this was the amount 
currently, which might suggest it could change). Although the document sent after the call 
did say the amount was not guaranteed, that was after the instruction had been given by the 
IFA.
There was further confusion when the transactions were checked and the sales came to a 
higher amount. Aviva has explained the reasons for this; an additional 10% was added to 
ensure there was enough for the tax-free cash to be paid. I agree thats reasonable; if it 
hadnt added that buffer, and the values had fallen more, there might not have been enough 
to make the tax-free cash payment. But it caused some confusion as this wasnt explained 
until the IFA questioned it.
With regard to the sum of £1,380.45 that was uncrystallised, this was due to dividends that 
were only received afterwards. Aviva had no control over this and once it became aware, 
they were dealt with as part of the same instruction and paid out accordingly.I think its relevant that Aviva was dealing with an IFA rather than Ms T herself and might 
reasonably have expected the IFA to know that values might change and couldnt be 
guaranteed. But even allowing for that, Aviva could have explained things more clearly and 
managed Ms Ts expectations. 
Ms T was understandably upset to find the amount she received was less than she was 
expecting, particularly if she was intending to pay a deposit on a house purchase and had to 
delay this. But taking all of the above circumstances into account, I think a payment of £300 
is fair to reflect the distress caused at the time. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Ms T 
compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman