DRN-3158941
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the settlement offered to him under his Halifax home insurance policy 
provided by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Halifax) following his claim for a stolen 
engagement ring.
What happened
Mr D had a Halifax home insurance policy. In July 2020, he made a claim against his policy 
for the loss of several items, including an engagement ring, following a break in at his home. 
Halifax appointed one of their jewellery specialists in relation to the stolen ring  Ill call them 
L. Mr D said hed had the ring valued at £10,000 in 2016 and provided the valuation and 
photos of the ring. 
In August 2020, Mr D said he was told by L the recommended retail price (RRP) for the 
engagement ring was £13,565. Mr D said he asked what the cash settlement would be as 
hed seen some replacement rings that he liked. And was told this would be £7867.70. So, 
Mr D said he looked to L to get a suitable replacement and told them the dimension of the 
ring needed to be medium.
Mr D said L suggested a replacement diamond, but it had a dimension of thick/very thick. 
He said he rejected this stone as hed already said the dimension of the diamond should be 
medium. L found another diamond that had a medium girdle but said this would mean an 
additional cost of £5,000 which Mr D said he wouldnt accept. Mr D said L told him they 
couldnt find a suitable replacement and would send a report to this effect to Halifax. 
Halifax told Mr D as they couldnt get a suitable replacement, they would settle his insurance 
claim for the engagement ring with a cash settlement of £7867.70. Mr D wasnt happy with 
the settlement as he said he couldnt find a suitable replacement for that amount. And hed 
only been offered two stones to consider, one that was too thick and the other that incurred 
additional costs. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax said their policy terms say they will replace as new if available or to the nearest 
equivalent less any obtainable discount. And that Mr D hadnt accepted any of the offered 
replacements. Halifax said the cash settlement of £7867.70 was what it would cost them to 
remake a ring to an equivalent specification. They acknowledged at one-point Mr D was 
incorrectly told that the cash settlement would be £8705.31, and they have compensated Mr 
D £200 for this error. 
 
Mr D wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably, in line with their policy 
terms and conditions. Mr D didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered Mr Ds policy cover with Halifax. Under a section headed How we settle 
claims under your Contents covers. It says:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
The policy wording, says that Halifax can settle the claim by replacing the stolen ring using 
its preferred supplier, or by settling in cash for the same amount it would cost Halifax to 
replace the ring. So, Im satisfied this makes it clear that Halifax wont pay more than they 
would have paid to their supplier when cash settling a claim. 
Insurers have established relationships with retailers. These relationships often mean the 
insurer has pre-agreed discounts with the retailers that allows it to purchase items below the 
market price.
Halifax offered Mr D a cash settlement of £7,867.70 as this was the amount based on what it 
would have cost Halifax to replace using their preferred retailer. I can appreciate why Mr D is 
unhappy with the cash settlement offered to him, as its substantially lower than the valuation 
hed for the ring - £10,000.
So, Ive considered whether this term has been applied fairly in the circumstances.
L valued the ring at a RRP of £13,656 based on the valuation description, which when the 
agreed discounts were applied reduced this to the cash settlement offer of £7867.70.L had 
the description of the ring from the valuation provided by Mr D.
The Pear shaped diamond weighing approximately 1.20ct graded to be E/F colour S12/I1 
clarity is surrounded with a halo of 25 brilliant cut diamonds. The ring is further enhanced 
with diamond set shoulders to the band, which is also stamped 750 inside.
And looked to find a suitable diamond so that Mr Ds ring could be replaced. In this situation, 
Mr D would have had a suitable replacement ring and the cost to Halifax would have been 
minimised as theyd gotten a discount. Its not in dispute that there wouldnt be a diamond 
that was exactly the same and any replacement would be to the nearest equivalent. 
I can see from Halifax records that L ordered a 1.50ct pear cut diamond following a visit 
with Mr D in September 2020. And that they said their stone dealer had looked at 40 stones 
from across the world.  In October 2020, a 1.71ct pear cut diamond, graded F and clarity 
S12,  was offered to Mr D by L as they considered this to be the nearest equivalent stone. 
But it was rejected by Mr D as he said the girdle was too thick. In November 2020 a 1.80ct 
pear cut diamond, graded F and clarity S12, was offered to Mr D that had a girdle dimension 
of medium. But this was a superior stone to the one that was stolen and so was £5,000 over 
the claim value, and so was rejected by Mr D because of this. 
Halifax said to offer a reasonable match in line with the policy terms and conditions their 
focus for diamonds would be on the carat, weight, colour, shape and clarity. Im satisfied 
Halifax is entitled to rely on the information provided to them by the jeweller  L whod said theyd made an offer of a reasonable equivalent, but this had been rejected by Mr D because 
of the girdle. And that they hadnt found a suitable equivalent within the claim value. 
As Halifax couldnt replace the ring to Mr Ds requests, they settled the claim in cash. 
Thats in line with the policy terms so I dont think its unreasonable. Halifax confirmed that 
the cost to them directly with the retailer would have been £7867.70, so thats the amount 
they have offered Mr D to cash settle. I understand Mr D was later incorrectly told that the 
offer had increased to £8705.31. Halifax corrected this, and offered £200 to compensate Mr 
D for the error. 
I do understand Mr D will be disappointed by this. As Im satisfied the cash settlement offer 
of £7867.70 is fair, so I wont be asking Halifax to increase it. I simply leave it to Mr D to 
decide whether he wishes to accept the settlement and compensation offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman