DRN-2088727
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his home insurer, (the company now known as) Fairmead 
Insurance Limited because when he tried to make a claim it repeatedly could find no record 
of it.
What happened
Mr S needed to make a claim, He called his broker to do this. He was given a reference 
number and was told someone would call him. No-one did. When he tried to follow this up he 
was told the reference number hed been given couldnt be recognised. After this occurring 
on more than one occasion Mr S made a complaint.
When Fairmead set up a complaint for Mr S it logged a claim for him at the same time. It 
noted that Mr Ss address had changed and thought this might be why the original claim had 
been lost. But Fairmead said it had no record of contact regarding a claim prior to the 
complaint being made. It wasnt really sure what had gone wrong but noted Mr S had been 
caused some frustration so offered him £50 compensation.
Mr S complained to this service. He explained that, in the end, he hadnt needed to claim, 
but he was unhappy with what had happened. He wanted to make sure it didnt happen 
again. He said he wanted £500 compensation; he said Fairmeads referring to this as an 
administrative error and being offered £50 compensation was unacceptable.
Our investigator noted that Mr S had received poor service but felt the effects of that poor 
service had been mitigated because the failure didnt affect any outstanding claim. Overall 
he felt Fairmeads offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S was dissatisfied, he said we hadnt considered what Fairmead had done with his data, 
and that a data breach had likely occurred. He said the fact he hadnt needed to claim in the 
end was irrelevant. 
Our investigator noted that he had seen no sign of a data breach but added that Mr S hadnt 
told Fairmead he was concerned about this. He said Mr S should really raise the issue with it 
in the first instance. As Mr S remained unhappy his complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating this situation was for Mr S. However, I have to say, it isnt 
something Id have been inclined to award compensation for if Mr S had brought his 
complaint to me with Fairmead having offered nothing. Fairmead has no record of Mr S 
having contacted it, so its hard for me to conclude that it failed him. Or to what extent any 
failure by it (as opposed to anything anyone else involved might have done) caused the 
upset he suffered.
That said Fairmead has accepted it has some liability, to some extent, for what went on. To 
that extent I think Fairmead acted fairly by acknowledging Mr Fs upset, and any part it 
played in that, by offering him £50 compensation. 
I understand that Mr S is concerned about his data.  But I dont see that this specific issue 
was raised with Fairmead when Mr S complained to it about it having been unable to find his 
claim record. Whilst its likely that Mr S will ultimately want the Information Commissioners 
Office (which is best placed to deal with issues of data breaches) to consider what happened 
here, he should probably give Fairmead a chance to look into this angle of concern first.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman