The complaint
Mrs G complained that Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL) mis-sold her credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in June 2003 when she took out her credit card. CSOL said it was 
an online application and that it didnt advise Mrs G to take out the policy. Mrs G couldnt 
remember much about the sale, but said that nothing was discussed with her and that the 
PPI was added to the credit card without her knowledge and consent. She also said she 
didnt get enough information about the PPI, and didnt need it as she had good employee 
benefits.
The policy cost 74p for each £100 Mrs G owed on her credit card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy, each month it would have paid out 10% of what she owed on the card 
when she stopped working. This would have carried on for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed, and asked that it be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
CSOL sent in a copy of its computer records of Mrs Gs credit card application, along with 
screenshots of its application process at the time. These records show that Mrs G applied for 
her credit card online, and I can see nothing to suggest any interaction between Mrs G and a 
representative of CSOL during the application. 
The screenshots show that there were yes and no buttons to give a choice about taking 
out PPI during the credit card application process. I cant see that either of the buttons would 
already have been completed  I think Mrs G wouldve had to make a choice as part of the 
application. So I think its most likely that she was aware of the PPI at the time and decided 
to take it - I think she probably just doesnt remember doing so as it was so long ago.
Im satisfied CSOL didnt advise Mrs G to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. 
DRN-1879594The screenshots show that brief details of the PPI cover were included underneath the yes 
and no options, with the full policy details on a pop-up screen. I dont know whether Mrs G 
would have had to confirm shed viewed the full terms and conditions as part of the 
application  or how the information wouldve appeared on screen. So I cant say that CSOL 
clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But, set against this, I dont think 
Mrs G wouldve been affected by any of these. 
CSOL explained on the screen that the cost of the policy was 74p for each £100 owed. But I 
dont think it was clear that interest could be charged on the premiums, or that Mrs G 
wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mrs G told us that, when she took out the policy, she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer of six months full pay. She also said she had savings of about £200  based on 
the information shown on CSOLs computer records this was equivalent to less than a 
months pay. On balance I think Mrs G couldve found it difficult to make the credit card 
repayments once her sick pay ended or if shed lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve 
provided a useful benefit.
Because of this, I think Mrs G would still have bought the policy if shed fully understood the 
cost and the benefits. So overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold, and therefore I am not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive concluded the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, and therefore 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman