DRN-2480573
The complaint
Mr J says Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In December 2018, Mr J borrowed £10,000 from Omni to pay for some dental procedures for 
his mother, Mrs J.
Before her treatment was completed, the dental practice went into administration. Mr J says 
Mrs J received fewer than half the procedures he paid for.
In June 2019, Mr J contacted Omni to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Omni declined the claim. It said section 75 doesnt apply in this case because the specific 
relationship thats required between Mr J, the dental practice and Omni doesnt exist.
Mr J then referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think it was unfair for Omni to decline Mr Js claim  he didnt think 
section 75 applied either.
Mr J doesnt think this is fair  so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.3R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Mr J is the debtor and Omni is the creditor. However, the dental practice, which is the 
supplier, almost certainly entered into an agreement with Mrs J not Mr J. I say this because, 
although theres limited paperwork available, its clear the dental procedures were for Mrs J 
and only the patient can consent to and receive such treatment.
I know that Mr J will be very disappointed, but this means there isnt a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)  which means section 75 doesnt 
apply.
Mr J says the dental practice exploited him and his parents  he says it would have known 
about its imminent insolvency when it took payment for the procedures. Understandably, he 
feels aggrieved and wronged. He also says the dental practice assured him hed have the 
protection of section 75 if anything went wrong. Mr J has explained that his mother has been 
left with temporary fittings, which are painful and may cause long-term damage. And he says 
hes kept up with his loan payments, which means he cant support his family in other ways 
or pay for Mrs J to receive the treatment elsewhere.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr J  hes in a very difficult situation through no fault of 
his own. However, because of what Ive said above about the lack of a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement, Omni isnt responsible or legally answerable for the suppliers breach of 
contract or any potential misrepresentation about the applicability of section 75  and I dont 
think it was unfair for Omni to decline Mr Js section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman