DRN-2525527
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim.   
What happened
Mr B has an income protection policy provided by Unum. This is a group policy, under which, 
hes a beneficiary and his employer is the policy holder. 
Mr B suffers with depression and anxiety and has been under the care of a psychiatrist since 
2008. Hes had periods of sickness in the past related to his long-term mental health 
condition. 
Mr B said that he began struggling with his mental health in October 2018 and had to take 
time off work. Hed been on long-term antidepressant medication and this was increased the 
same month after visiting his GP. Mr B was referred to his psychiatrist, who also prescribed 
him Diazepam alongside some additional medication to help combat his symptoms. Mr B 
was diagnosed with depression and anxiety and so claimed on his insurance policy when his 
employer stopped his occupational sick pay. 
Unum said that it wasnt notified about Mr B absence in good time and that this prejudiced its 
investigation into whether he met the policy definition of incapacitated during the deferred 
period. It declined Mr Bs claim and said there wasnt enough medical evidence to determine 
whether he was able to fulfil the material and substantial duties of his occupation. Unum 
highlighted that Mr B had been able to walk his dogs and see family members during and 
after the deferred period, indicating that his functional capacity was more than it expected of 
someone suffering with this type of mental health condition.   
Our investigator said that Unum had declined the claim unfairly. She was satisfied that the 
medical evidence met the threshold required to demonstrate his incapacity during and after 
the deferred period. She said Unum should pay the claim with interest. 
Unum disagreed. In summary, it said that the late notification meant that it was unable to 
obtain contemporaneous evidence to determine Mr Bs level of functional capacity. It 
accepted Mr B had been referred to counselling and had received treatment from a specialist 
mental health team, but this wasnt enough for it to determine whether he could effectively 
meet the demands of his insured occupation. And so, its for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, mainly for the same reasons already 
explained by our investigator. Im persuaded by the medical evidence given by Mr Bs GP, 
his psychiatrist, the occupational health provider, his counsellor and his employer. These 
parties have been clear in that they believe Mr B is suffering from a medical condition and 
have provided a narrative around his inability to return to work. I think Unum has treated Mr 
B unfairly by declining his claim for the reasons its given. And whilst I understand its 
arguments around not being able to assess Mr Bs functional capacity in the way it would 
have preferred during the deferred period, theres still some contemporaneous medical 
evidence to describe Mr Bs journey and treatment received, which I think has been 
overlooked. Ill explain why.
The deferral clock began from October 2018, when Mr B first began to suffer symptoms of 
his anxiety disorder. Unum expected to be notified of his absence three months later, as per 
the policy terms, by its policy holder  Mr Bs employer. But this didnt happen until much 
later, when Mr B stopped receiving sick pay six months later. This was the prompt Mr B 
needed to reach out to the insurer and submit his claim. I dont think its fair that Unum hold 
Mr B responsible for his employer failing to tell it about his absence as he was unaware of 
this obligation. 
Mr B also explained that part of his anxiety symptoms means that he finds it extremely 
difficult to communicate as part of his illness. Unum appeared to recognise this and made 
reasonable adjustments for him to submit his claim late over the phone. I should say this 
communication deficit is consistent with our experience of Mr B. His anxieties have 
manifested throughout our investigation and this, alongside the medical evidence, persuades 
me that Mr B is suffering with the described symptoms.
Unums argument about being unable to assess Mr Bs illness in line with its policy terms is 
important and I recognise its position was compromised, however, theres still enough 
medical evidence available from that time for it to have reach a fair decision about the claim. 
I say that because Mr Bs medication was increased in strength, he was prescribed further 
anti-anxiety medication, referred to counselling on the NHS, receiving care from a consultant 
psychiatrist and was diagnosed with severe depression in addition to his anxiety.
I accept that there wasnt an in-depth investigation into Mr Bs functional capacity at that 
time, but Im persuaded theres enough medical evidence to determine that he was unwell 
and suffering from severe mental health problems which prevented him from being able to 
work. Unums comments about Mr B having the capacity to walk his dogs or meet with family 
members isnt a fair measure to determine his ability to fulfil the material and substantial 
duties of his insured occupation. This was a recommendation made by his treating doctor to 
help combat the symptoms of his illnesses. I should also highlight that Mr Bs documented 
symptoms included gaining weight due to comfort eating, difficulties with his cognitive 
function including memory loss and the ability to focus on tasks, suffering with regular panic 
attacks and thoughts of self-harm. All of these are recognised symptoms consistent with 
severe depression and anxiety. 
Unum highlighted the perceived problems at work as the reason for Mr Bs illnesses, but Im 
less persuaded by that as even when Mr B was away from work, his mental health continued 
to decline. In any event, those issues were nominal and resolved quickly, yet the mental 
health problems remained. I should perhaps also add that Mr B has been through an 
exceptionally difficult time over the last few years and this has had a demonstrable impact on 
his mental resilience, as described by his consultant psychiatrist, who has treated Mr B for in 
excess of 13 years.
Unum noted that the occupational health report largely consisted of Mr Bs self-reported 
symptoms and has intermated that this isnt persuasive enough to say hes unable to work. 
But I disagree. I say that because although I accept this report consisted of self-reported 
symptoms, it doesnt mean the appropriate weight should not be applied to this evidence or 
that it should not be considered as part of this claim. I also thought it was persuasive 
because its consistent with the comments made by the medical professionals involved with 
Mr Bs treatment.Ive also seen that Unum made an offer to Mr B in July 2020 to settle his claim. This offer 
was made without prejudice and I believe has subsequently been withdrawn. This 
compromised of a little over one years salary for Mr B, but he declined it. I think this offer is 
important because it persuades me further that Unum should have considered his claim 
more carefully with the view to paying it. Mr B said it felt as though Unum was trying to 
effectively pay him off which he didnt feel was fair. I cant say whether that was the case, but 
I wanted to note Mr Bs feelings toward this offer. He explained at one point he felt he had no 
other option but to take the money because financially, he was suffering and this 
compounded his mental health problems  which I can understand.
There was also an insurance administrator, a different company, involved in this complaint 
that appeared to better understand Mr Bs claim and whether it should be accepted. The 
evidence Ive seen, mainly case notes and email chains between it and Unum, persuaded 
me that Unum unfairly declined Mr Bs claim. In particular, there was a conversation where 
the administrator explained that Mr B was going submit further evidence about his condition 
from the consultant psychiatrist and his GP, but Unum said this would make no difference to 
its decision. Ive highlighted this because I think it shows that Unum had already decided not 
to cover the claim before properly considering the medical evidence. This is unfair and not in 
line with Unums obligations under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
where it should not avoid or unfairly decline a claim.
Further, that evidence was material to Mr Bs case and so to effectively prejudge or ignore it 
was unacceptable. 
The policy terms say; 
Definition A:
(i) If a member is not required by his terms of employment or by his partnership 
agreement to hold a licence or certificate which is issued only when the member 
meets certain medical standards; and
(a)Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness of injury, 
to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation; 
and
(b) the member is not following any occupation, except as provided under 
paragraph 5.3,
then the member is incapacitated.
I think Mr B has demonstrated that hes incapacitated because the medical evidence is 
strong enough to persuade me of this. And therefore, Unum should now pay his claim. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and so Unum Limited must now pay his claim. In addition, it 
should add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay him £500 compensation for the 
overall trouble and upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman