DRN-3113878
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr N is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around March 2016, Mr N was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr N decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ns behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr N to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the financial benefits from the system would provide enough income to cover the 
finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook did not issue a final response but responded to our file request explaining that 
they believed the paperwork made the costs and benefits of the system clear.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr N and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons;
the quotation explains that the payback period was 13 years so supports that Mr N 
was told the system would be self-funding over the loan term; and
the quotation only details the cash price and not the total cost with interest; and
Mr N was told verbally that the system would be self-funding which is different to the 
information contained in the quote; and
the quote sets out an estimated profit from the scheme as being £13,041.57; and
Mr N was not provided with a copy of the quotation. Mr N is without a copy of the 
quotation which is evidence it wasnt sent to him; and
Mr Ns signature is different on the quote to the one provided on the complaint form 
and therefore the CMC has concerns whether he signed the quote.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ns recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods 
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,956. They have said 
that this made it impossible for Mr N to look at the documentation and work out the cost in 
relation to the benefits.Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr N makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£8,956. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £8,956 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £17,224.20.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,956, it would cost Mr N 
more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan. The quotation also 
provides a comparison between the costs and benefits of the system in the repayments 
section as detailed above.
Self-funded
Mr N have alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the benefits of the system. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr N has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr N could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr N could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £198.08.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr N could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £239.99 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr N the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £534.07. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a page titled repayments with a series of tables. This has three tables set out over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr N entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 
180 monthly payments of £94.63 due and compares the overall expected grand total from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr N could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr N was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The estimated performance over 30 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 20 the overall benefits that Mr N could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr N that the system would pay for itself by 
year 20, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr N. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,830.58 kWh a year and the quote suggested 2,906.58 kWh a year. While I 
acknowledge theres a small difference, I dont believe it's sufficient to constitute a 
misrepresentation.
I have looked at Mr Ns FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,941.02 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr N couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr N entered into the contract.
CMCs further points
The CMC has explained that on page 2 and 9 the quotation details a payback time of 13 
years and details the estimated profit from the scheme as £13,041.57. They believe that this 
backs up what Mr N has said he was told at the point of sale and is a misrepresentation. 
Ive looked at the quotation and can see that it explains that the estimated payback time is 
based on the cash purchase. The payback time will fluctuate dependent on any finance 
taken against the system. Therefore, I think its clear that Mr Ns payback time will be longer 
as he chose to purchase the system with an interest-bearing loan. The estimated profit from 
the scheme also explains that this does not include the finance charge. 
I agree that it would have been clearer for P to have included the finance cost when detailing 
the payback time and profit from the scheme, but they do clearly explain that this is based on 
cash purchase. Therefore, I cant conclude that this is an untrue statement of fact.
The CMC have explained that the quote only details the cash price of the system and 
therefore it wasnt possible for Mr N to work out that it would take around 20 years for him to 
break-even. The loan agreement is signed and dated by Mr N on 11 March 2016 and the 
quote is also signed and dated on the same day. Therefore, I think that both documents 
were provided to him at the same time. The loan agreement details the total price and I think 
it is a simple exercise to compare this against the accumulated benefits detailed in the 
estimated performance over 30 years table.
The CMC has explained that they dont believe that it is Mr Ns signature on the quote. They 
have said that the signature on the complaint form provided to us is different and therefore 
they dont believe the signature is Mr Ns and therefore they dont think its fair to rely on the 
contents of the quotation.
I have looked at the signatures on the quote and the complaint form. While there are some 
differences, I think this can be attributed to the signature being added by Mr N on a tablet 
screen. Given Mr N proceeded with the installation and has honoured the finance agreement 
throughout, Im persuaded its more likely than not Mr N did in fact sign the quote document. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr N to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman