DRN-3773233
The complaint
Mr E complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MWM.
Mr E himself has engaged an adviser to act for him so Ill refer to any issues or replies as 
coming from Mr E himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MWM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr E was 38 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was described as 
being in good health.
Mr E lived in a home valued at around £150,000 with a 29-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £130,000. 
Mr E earned around £35,000. Mr E also worked and earned £34,000 per year. She 
also had a DB pension of her own. After expenses they had some disposable income 
left over. Mr and Mrs E had £2,500 in joint savings. The also owned two buy to let 
properties and received additional income on these and they enjoyed some capital 
growth.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es BSPS was approximately 
£289,299. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
MWM set out its advice in a suitability report on 6 November 2017. In this it advised Mr E to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. MWM said 
this would allow Mr E to achieve his objectives. Mr E accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr E complained to MWM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, MWM said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr E had at the time. 
However, MWM has since said it would like to settle the complaint. It said it would do this in 
full and under a specific calculator which the financial regulator has established for these 
cases. So, MWM has asked for Mr E to supply details of his transferred pension value so it 
can begin the process of establishing if there has been a loss. MWM has said if there is a 
loss, then it will pay what is due under the guidelines issued by the financial regulator.
However, Mr E still hasnt provided these details. Weve asked for the value several times 
now and Im satisfied that Mr E is aware of what is needed to start the redress process. 
So, even though I can see MWM is apparently willing to settle this complaint, it cant 
evidently be resolved informally. Its therefore come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Es best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from MWM. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Financial viability 
MWM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
There seems to have been several transfer analyses produced throughout September and 
October 2017, no doubt due to the updated CETV values that Mr E was given over several 
weeks and also the different types of funds which MWM was considering recommending to 
him. I also think some details were emerging around that time of the new BSPS2 scheme 
and the values contained within. So, in explaining the critical yields and some of the other 
analysis, Ive used the transfer report dated 27 October 2017 and the suitability report of 6 
November 2017.
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr E was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
MWM said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the BSPS2 at the age of 65 
was 6.9%. At the early retirement age of 55, the critical yield was 8.4%. I think this was done 
because Mr E had expressed an interest in retiring early.
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off for Mr E and 
so I very much doubt whether retiring at 55 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. A retirement plan for the age of 58 was also 
clearly discussed although I cant see there were critical yields shown to Mr E about this 
specific age. 
But I dont think there was enough evidence at the time that achieving enough growth 
outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was going to be achievable. I 
say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.6% per year for 26 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. For a retirement at 55, the discount rate was 4.3%. Ive 
also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although these hadnt been 
updated for some time and we were in a period then of low interest rates and low bond 
yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be lower. At the time, MWM 
assessed Mr Es attitude to risk (ATR) as moderate.
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators projections and also to the discount rate were most 
relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 4 -to-5% were much 
more realistic. These were below the critical yield figures for the BSPS2, so I think this 
showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, MWMs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was much 
higher than Mr Es CETV. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to 
the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was 
£526,963. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in MWMs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are well above Mr Es 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr E could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, MWM also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. MWM said the critical yields to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and MWM itself says Mr E wouldnt have wanted to transfer 
to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees 
associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr E, would 
have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, MWMs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr E would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the available DB scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections MWM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr E well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to 
say these were not comparing like-with-like. What MWM was showing Mr E were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. And 
some of the scenarios showed him running out of funds in his 70s whereas his DB pension 
was guaranteed for life.
Of course, according to MWM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, MWM said Mr E also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all 
the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
MWM recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Es 
wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to 
summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away:
MWM said he wanted to leave TATA at age 58, take on a business venture of some 
description to help fund his retirement. 
MWM said there was a potential benefit of greater tax-free cash because the current 
scheme was constrained by HMRC rules.
It says he wanted to have control and flexibility over his options at retirement and 
was happy to forgo guarantees in lieu of these things. Mr E apparently wanted to 
have control over his own pension fund and the investments within it.
It said the death benefits were not as beneficial [and didnt] provide as flexible death 
benefits as those if you transferred. He apparently liked the idea of being able to 
pass the pension onto his non-dependent children and potentially any grandchildren.
Mr E did not apparently wish to enter the PPF or switch into the new BSPS 2 
schemes and said he wanted a clean break from links to TATA Steel.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that MWM recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the general flexibility and control it offered to Mr E. I have therefore 
considered these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Mr E evidently told the adviser he would eventually like to have his own business in 
retirement if he could achieve this at an early age; 58 years old was mentioned. He also 
linked this with his current buy-to-let business and he implied he might be able to use freed 
up cash from his pension to buy another property.
But as Ive mentioned above, Mr E was still only 38 years old. In this context, I think MWMs 
adviser agreeing and accepting that Mr E had specific uses for his retirement funds, lacked 
credibility. With over 26 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring if using 
his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly use the money for, should have 
been a major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing 
so involved an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial 
benefits at retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr E probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Es retirement hopes were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by MWM - and he really did plan to retire early - I think MWM should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2 for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still 
have been an option for Mr E. Retiring early from a DB scheme, such as BSPS2 would 
simply have meant Mr Es pension benefits would have been somewhat different, due to him 
accessing the pension earlier and for longer. 
MWM also promoted to Mr E that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But MWM should have 
been telling Mr E at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from the age of 58 in his case, also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other viable options Mr E faced; in 
my view this included opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility and control
I think flexibility would have sounded positive to Mr E. However, I cant see that Mr E 
required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, flexibility was 
poorly defined by MWM. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr E required 
changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. Retirement for him was a long way off 
and he already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a 
consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. This DC pension 
was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr E and his employer - 6% and 10% 
respectively and it still had up to 26 years left to run (over 19 years if he did eventually retire 
very early). So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr E any flexibility he might 
have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr E wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr E could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  
up to 26 years. So, if Mr E ever found he needed flexibility, then hed be able to use the 
latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive considered what was said about another buy-to-let property investment. However, to be 
clear, Mr E wouldnt be able to access his pension until his late fifties even if he did transfer. 
So, funding an increase in this business using his pension was still two-decades away. Ive 
noted one of his current properties was funded on a capital reduction (repayment) mortgage. 
There would therefore probably be an increasing equity in this asset over the medium-long 
term. I think its also fair to expect  that even under very modest assumptions  both the 
current properties would also enjoy capital growth in the years ahead. So I dont think Mr E 
needed to use his pension to fund any future property investments. This aspiration was also 
clearly in the far future in any event. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr E had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr E was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. I 
accept that Mr E was probably financially aware and to a degree, experienced. But this 
related mainly to his investments in buy-to-let properties. He also had his new DC pension 
with TATA. But Ive seen nothing showing the investment strategy for this pension was 
anything other than an off the shelf mix of investments commonly found in most company 
DC schemes. I dont think Mr E himself had any experience of wider money market 
investments more commonly found in personally managed pensions. And I think he would 
have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £289,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr E 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
MWM itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this showed 
a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr E had speculated that he might need 
in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement 
needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr E speculated that he might 
have needed around £1,000 per month in todays money.
MWMs analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr E could expect an annual pension of around 
£23,000. Or he could have taken a reduced annual pension of around £15,000 together with 
tax-free cash of over £106,000. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated 
for an earlier retirement, at aged 55, this was still almost £13,000 per year. And it certainly 
isnt unreasonable to say that by then, Mr E could have built up a DC fund well in excess of 
£150,000 assuming only very modest growth. We also know Mrs E has a skilled job and a 
DB pension with this. So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Es pension entitlements 
wouldnt have easily met his anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer from a 
DB scheme.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. I dont think MWM adequately explained these things to Mr E as its 
advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was 
poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Es circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have 
been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also 
had a smaller second DC pension, and another income stream with his investments, this 
supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr E died. Mr E was married and had a child so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs E if he predeceased her. I dont think 
MWM made the real value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
Mr E and the adviser discussed leaving funds from his pension to his children and even 
future grandchildren if he died, rather than the typical DB spouses pension which would have seen his wife getting around half of his pension. The adviser told Mr E that hed be able 
to pass on the value of a personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, 
the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look 
like an attractive feature to Mr E. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think MWM explored to 
what extent Mr E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
Mr E was only 38 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr E had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 58 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 58 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I cant be sure the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 38 years 
old, another modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr E really did want to leave a large legacy for a specific relative or someone else. 
But more so, it doesnt appear that MWM took into account the fact that Mr E could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr E already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Es situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
MWM said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
MWM said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MWMs obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MWM 
should have reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr E through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to MWMs recommendation to Mr E to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
MWM recommended that Mr E invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr E and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr E was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think MWM ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Es best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr E still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think MWM should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr E would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that MWM disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr E, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr E to transfer out, and I think Mr E relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MWMs advice. I say this because Mr E was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MWM had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if MWM had explained Mr E was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think MWM should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. MWM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
MWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what MWM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman