DRN-4394870
The complaint
Mr T complains that the loans he had from Lloyds Bank PLC were unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr T had two loans with Lloyds between March 2011 and April 2013 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 8 Mar 2011 £9,500 48m £277.74 8 Apr 2013
With loan 2
2 8 Apr 2013 £17,200 84m £273.60 Sold to DCA*
7 Jan 2015
* Debt Collection Agency
Mr T says that he was offered the first loan on the spot in branch and was only asked about 
his income, with no extra checks. He says he was then offered almost twice as much over 
the phone in 2013 when it should have been clear to Lloyds that the repayments were 
unaffordable.
Lloyds initially said the complaint was out of our jurisdiction because the loans were taken 
out too long ago. However, following consideration by one of our ombudsmen, Lloyds has 
now agreed for this service to consider Mr Ts complaint. It adds that it is unable to provide 
much information, however, due to the time that has passed since the loans were approved.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that in the 
absence of detailed information from Lloyds he looked at Mr Ts bank statements to see 
what proportionate checks were likely to have shown. He found there was no strong reason 
why Lloyds would have considered the lending was unsustainable and so he couldnt say 
that it had acted unfairly by approving either loan.
Mr T responded to say, in summary, that the evidence seems to suggest the opposite, 
especially with regard to loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, as 
outlined on our website. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Lloyds complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Lloyds make a fair lending decision?
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
Lloyds has sent evidence to show Mr T said the purpose of the loan was to buy a car and 
that hed declared his employment income to be £3,500. It hasnt been able to provide any 
further information about the checks it may have carried out at the time, but I dont find that 
to be unreasonable given the loan was taken out over 12 years ago. Lloyds has provided 
bank statements from the time, and I cant see there was anything in the available 
information that should have indicated to Lloyds that the lending was unaffordable. In fact, 
Mr Ts regular income at the time appears to be around £5,500 per month and, although 
there was some use of short-term loans, none appeared to be outstanding at the time of the 
lending.
So, I consider Lloyds made a fair lending decision for loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr T told Lloyds that his income had reduced and that he wanted the new loan for re-
financing of existing debt. He used £6,219.26 of the £17,200 to repay loan 1, £7,636 paid off 
his Lloyds credit card and the remaining amount cleared his overdraft.
Again, I have looked at Mr Ts bank statements from the time and I can see that his regular 
income had reduced to around £1,500 per month. By approving the loan, Lloyds reduced 
Mr Ts credit commitments by about £350 monthly, but he was still committed to spending 
around 37% of his income on credit commitments, as he was repaying a further loan at £278 
per month. At the time of loan 2 Mr T also had at least five outstanding short-term loans with 
three lenders.
So, I have considered whether Lloyds was irresponsible when it agreed to loan 2 and I have 
come to the conclusion it was not. I say that because:
Loan 2 wasnt actually additional lending as he used the money to repay other 
Lloyds debts  loan 1, his credit card and his overdraft;
The interest rate charged on loan 2 was significantly less than any of the existing 
Lloyds debts;
The loan had the effect of reducing his total monthly credit commitments by around 
£350;Mr Ts bank statements showed he had limited expenditure each month  there was 
a regular payment of £350 per month, possibly for rent, and a further loan repayment 
of £278;
Mr Ts income appeared to be enhanced by a bonus in April 2013, with which he 
repaid all his short-term loans.
In summary, I find loan 2 was beneficial for Mr T and, therefore, I cant agree that Lloyds was 
irresponsible when it approved it. I also cant see that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman