DRN-2669511
The complaint
Mr D complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D was approved for one loan on 19 July 2016. It was for £1,000 repayable over 52 weeks 
at just over £38 each week. This translates into about £166 a month. 
Mr D informed Satsuma that his net monthly income was around £2175, his outgoings for 
housing costs, financial commitments and other expenditure came to £1,095. This gave a 
potential disposable income each month of around £1,080. 
Satsuma explained that it carried out credit searches, used that information and increased 
the amount Mr D appeared to be committed to on financial expenditure to around £630 each 
month. These checks led to Satsuma considering Mr Ds monthly outgoings to be around 
£1,759 and his calculated disposable income to be around £415. As the expected 
repayments were scheduled to be around £166 a month then Satsuma says that it appeared 
affordable. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Satsuma need not do 
anything to put things right. Mr D disagreed and explained that he had a lot of additional debt 
at the time:  I was and still am in massive financial distress and not being in work now is 
affecting my mental health. Mr D went on to say that he was in a financial mess at the 
moment and needs a break. I am sorry to hear this.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this applies to 
Mr Ds circumstances as he received one loan which is not enough to make a pattern. 
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need 
to borrow further in order to do that. 
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I think that looking at all the evidence I have from both parties, and that Mr D was a new 
customer to Satsuma when he applied for the loan in July 2016, then Satsuma carried out 
the checks I would have considered to have been proportionate for that Loan. 
It would have been disproportionate for Satsuma to be doing more  such as reviewing 
Mr Ds bank statements. It used Mr Ds declared income and expenditure, and I have seen 
evidence in the records before approving Loan 1 that it carried out a credit check and 
factored into its affordability assessment the additional (undeclared) debt Mr D had to repay 
around that time.
I hope that Mr Ds financial situation improves but looking at the circumstances surrounding 
his application in 2016, I have decided not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman