DRN-2303645
The complaint
 Miss Ds complaint about Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118) relates 
to a loan she took out with them over a period of 24 months, and which she later asked to 
change to a 12-month term.
What happened
The facts are known to both parties, so I wont unnecessarily repeat them at any great 
length. Miss D took out a £1,000 loan with 118 over 24 months on 19 August. She had 14 
days to change her mind, but she didnt. She did however contact 118 after that period and 
on 12 September asking if she could reduce the term to 12 months. 118 refused to change 
the term despite her explaining some of her personal circumstances. 
But 118 did advise Miss D that she could make a partial settlement to either the monthly 
repayment, so as to reduce the monthly payments, or to the term so as to reduce the length 
of the term
Miss D was unhappy with 118s final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that 118 hadnt done anything 
wrong in relation to not agreeing to change the loan repayment term but felt it should have 
acknowledged and responded to Miss Ds comments about her mental health and financial 
difficulties, and thus made reasonable adjustments to help her. She recommended that 118 
pay Miss D a total of £100 for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
118 didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether 118 acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Miss 
D has candidly said she made a mistake when applying for the loan. She also accepts she 
was given accurate figures and information for the 12 and 24 month term loans, and that the 
rates and repayments were made clear to her. And she accepts that she waited longer than 
the period allowed for her to change her mind. 
But Miss D has said that when she took out the loan she was in a distressed state of mind 
and panic because she needed the loan to pay her bills ASAP. But she hasnt really 
explained how it is she came to pick the longer 24 month loan rather than the shorter 12 
month loan. I do understand she says she did so in a panic, but she then had the 14 day 
period to collect her thoughts and change her mind. Which is why that 14 day period is there. 
And I note of course that all the documentation sent to her, clearly set out that the loan was 
a 24-month loan so there can have been no confusion or ambiguity that that was the length 
of loan she had selected. So, I cant see that her mental health problems caused her to 
select the wrong loan term, since even if she was panicked at the point of application and 
acceptance of the loan, she still had plenty of time to correct that mistake. 
Our investigator thought that 118 could have done more to assist Miss D after she had told 
them of her mental health and financial difficulties. The investigator refers to the call made 
on the 12 September to which Ive also listened. I heard Miss D explain about her anxiety 
and depression and time from work. So, 118 knew of those facts but didnt really then go on 
to help Miss D in any meaningful way. I also dont think Miss D understood the advisers 
explanation about a partial settlement and of course this wasnt followed up in any detail in 
118s final response letter. 
So, I do think 118 could and ought to have dealt with Miss D in a more positive and 
sympathetic way, given the knowledge they had about her. I do accept that 118 did partially 
help by putting a vulnerable customer flag on her account which could certainly have 
assisted in the future. But that wasnt communicated to Miss D and so she was effectively 
left in the dark. And I do note that 118 have acknowledged that their representative ought to 
have asked more questions when Miss D called, and although theyve given their reasons, it 
seems that they accept therefore they could have done more.
Putting things right
 So overall, I am satisfied that 118 could have done a little more here to treat Miss D more 
positively and sympathetically, and I think the suggested settlement of £100 made by our 
investigator is therefore both reasonable and fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
 Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money shall pay Miss D £100 to settle this 
complaint. I think that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman