DRN-4330615
The complaint
Miss D, represented by a third party, complains that UK Credit Limited was irresponsible in 
its lending to her. For ease of reference, I have referred to Miss D throughout this complaint. 
What happened
Miss D was provided with a loan by UK Credit in July 2017. Miss D says that before the loan 
was provided her credit report showed she had other loans outstanding loans and loans that 
she had recently settled. She had also recently missed a payment on one of her accounts 
and an account had been transferred to a debt collection company. She says the lending 
was irresponsible.
UK Credit issued a final response letter in January 2023. It said that as part of the 
application process it carried out a credit search. It noted that Miss D had previous defaults, 
but these were older than two years and that as a sub-prime lender it wouldnt necessarily 
use the credit file as a sole reason for not providing a loan. It said that a call with an 
underwriter took place in July 2017 and Miss D explained the reason for the historic defaults. 
It said this was plausible and reasonable and as Miss D hadnt any adverse data recorded in 
the previous two years it wasnt concerned about her credit and didnt require further 
documentation. 
UK Credit said it verified Miss Ds income through a credit reference agency and confirmed 
Miss Ds employment with her. An affordability assessment was then carried out and 
external data was used to evaluate Miss Ds expenses. It said based on its checks the loan 
appeared affordable. 
Miss Ds complaint was referred to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that given the term of the loan and the 
amounts Miss D had to repay and what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, 
that it wouldve been proportionate for UK Credit to ask for the amount of information needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable. He said that there wasnt anything in the information 
provided or the information he thought UK Credit shouldve been aware of which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss D was saying. So, he didnt think UK 
Credit was wrong to lend to Miss D. 
Miss D didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the loan wasnt affordable and UK 
Credit should have done additional checks before providing the loan. She said she had 
taken out two guarantor loans in the three months prior to the loan and three in the six 
months prior as well as having missed payments in the months leading up to the loan and 
having two historic defaults. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Miss D was provided with a loan of £3,500 in July 2017. The loan had a term of 36 months 
and Miss D was required to make monthly repayments of around £156. Before the loan was 
provided UK Credit carried out a credit search and verified her income with a credit 
reference agency. An underwriting call also took place on which Miss D was asked about her 
credit history as well as her income and expenses. Noting the size of the loan and 
repayments compared to Miss Ds income and taking into consideration her other credit 
commitments at the time I find that these checks were proportionate.
However, just because I consider the checks were proportionate, it still doesnt necessarily 
mean that the loan should have been provided. I have therefore considered the information 
UK Credit gained through its checks to assess whether it was reasonable to consider the 
loan affordable for Miss D.
The credit check carried out at the time of the loan application, didnt show that Miss D had 
any other outstanding loans or card debts at the time. There were two other accounts noted 
as being live with a total balance of £289. Miss D has said she took out other loans in the 
months leading up to this application. It takes time for information to be recorded on a credit 
file and so while I note the comment as these loans didnt appear on UK Credits search, it 
wasnt able to take these into account. 
An underwriting call took place in July 2017. Given Miss D had historic defaults recorded on 
her credit file I find it reasonable that these additional checks were carried out to understand 
her financial situation. Miss D confirmed her employment details and her income and that 
she believes her income (including benefits) will stay the same. Miss D is asked about her 
previous defaults from 2012, 2014 and 2015. Miss D confirmed these accounts had been 
cleared and said that her income had reduced at the time as she was on maternity pay. 
Miss D confirmed she was in a secure position and her finances shouldnt change. 
An affordability assessment was undertaken. An amount was included for credit 
commitments even though Miss D had said that these had been cleared. Miss D said she 
paid half the bills and confirmed she paid £190 in rent (half of the total). UK Credit relied on 
third party data to assess her expenses, and this resulted in Miss Ds share of costs being 
recorded as around £671. I note that Miss D has been asked to provide copies of bank 
statements for the three months leading up to the loan which could be used to verify her 
expenses. These havent been provided. However, as I think that the checks carried out by 
UK Credit before the loan was provided were reasonable, I do not think that verification of 
expenses was required and so I do not require these to make a decision.
As I think the checks carried out by UK Credit in this case were reasonable and the 
information gained through these suggested Miss Ds disposable income after the UK Credit 
loan repayments was over £700, I do not find I can say that UK Credit should have been 
concerned that Miss D would not be able to make her repayments. Therefore, I do not find I 
can say UK Credit was irresponsible in its lending to her.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman