DRN-1660796
The complaint
Mr F complains about Tesco Personal Finance Plcs refusal to give him a refund.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr F used his credit card provided by Tesco to buy a phone. He bought the 
phone using his account with an online retailer, a company which I will call M. It turned out 
that M didnt have title to the phone. Mr F considered this to be both a misrepresentation on 
the part of M and a breach of contract. After a year, the phones true owner claimed the 
phone back. Mr F complained to M. He wasnt able to make progress with M, therefore he 
complained to Tesco instead. Mr F relied on the rights he said he had under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Tesco looked at Mr Fs complaint. It didnt agree that it had to do anything further as it didnt 
agree that Section 75 applied in this instance. It said this because for Section 75 to apply 
there has to be a certain type of relationship in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. Specifically, Mr F has to be the debtor, Tesco the creditor and M the supplier. 
However, Mr F had bought the phone for his wife and had it delivered to her. Tesco thought 
this meant she, not Mr F was the debtor. On that basis it said there was no valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship.
Mr F was dissatisfied with Tescos response and he came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint.  He recommended that Mr Fs complaint 
should be upheld. He recommended this as he was satisfied that there was a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship. Further, he thought the contract for the phone had been 
misrepresented and that there had been a breach of contract too. On this basis, he thought 
Tesco ought to fairly and reasonably give Mr F a refund. But not a full refund. He said, Mr Fs 
wife had used the phone for a year so £100 ought to be taken off the refund in recognition of 
this use of the phone. He could see that the purchase prices was £519.99, so he asked 
Tesco to refund £419.99.
Mr F accepted our investigators recommendation, Tesco did not. In summary, it objected 
because it said the invoice from M, showed that the phone was bought for Mr Fs wife not for 
him. The phone was registered in her name and was intended for her sole benefit. It thought 
therefore there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. That being so, it 
followed, in its opinion, there was no fair and reasonable basis to ask it to refund Mr F.
We could go no further at this stage, so I was asked to take a look at Mr Fs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F is relying on the rights he has under Section 75.
 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Fs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr F pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr F has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim against Tesco provided certain 
conditions are met.
 
One of these conditions is that there must be a very specific relationship in place that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Mr F says there is one. Tesco says there isnt. 
This is the only point of disagreement as both parties seem to accept that because M didnt 
own the phone it sold and therefore had no entitlement to sell it, there was both a 
misrepresentation and a breach of contract.
Ive looked at this debtor-creditor-supplier point. Unless the debtor is a party to the contract, 
then there can be no debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.  In principle, as far as I am aware, 
there is no difficulty in law with a situation whereby a person A contracts with another 
person B to provide goods to benefit a third party C.  So, I think that the point about who 
benefitted from the contract, raised by Tesco, is irrelevant here. Rather, the question is was 
Mr F a party to the contract with M?
In looking at this question, Ive looked at how the contract was made, the contractual 
documents, who had the contractual liability to pay for the phone provided by M and the 
wider circumstances.
 
My understanding of the contractual process here is that Mr F was only able to contract with 
M in the first place because he had an online account with it. Thats the only way to buy from 
Ms site.
 
Moreover, I looked at the terms and conditions on Ms site. In particular, I looked at what 
they say how the contract is formed and with whom. I think these make it very clear Mr F 
was the contracting party. For example, the terms and conditions talk about how by placing 
the order Mr F was warranting his legal capability to enter into a binding contact with it. 
Those same terms and conditions talk about how the contract is formed between M and the 
person who places the order. The terms and conditions say (I have added the bold type for 
emphasis:
After placing an order, we will send you an email acknowledging that we have received your 
order. Please note that this does not mean that your order has been accepted. Your order 
constitutes an offer to us to buy a product. All orders are subject to acceptance by us, and 
we will confirm such acceptance to you by sending you an email that confirms that the 
product has been dispatched (the Dispatch Confirmation). The contract between us (the 
Contract) will only be formed when we send you the Dispatch Confirmation.
Further, the invoice that Tesco relies on does not assist its stance that the contracting party 
was Mrs F. The invoice says, ship to and Mr Fs wifes name is printed next to this. But the 
invoice also says, order and payment and Mr Fs name is printed next to this together with 
his credit card details. I dont think that merely because the delivery details were noted on 
the invoice means the recipient is a contracting party in any sense. In other words, Mr Fs 
wife was only on the invoice to give the supplier its instructions as to where to deliver the 
phone, thats all. 
Moreover, to understand who is liable to pay under this contract, and therefore who is the 
contracting party, it is helpful to consider what the position would have been if the phone had 
been delivered but no payment had been made, in these circumstances who could M ask to 
pay it? Certainly not Mr Fs wife the mere recipient of the phone. I think the answer is Mr F.
I realise that Mr F bought the phone for his wife, so it is not surprising it was registered in her 
name. This though throws no light on the central question as to who the contracting party 
was. It just supports what Mr F says about gifting his wife the phone.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. It follows, Im also satisfied that it is fair and reasonable that Tesco should 
refund Mr F £419.99 and it must pay interest on this refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance Plc must pay Mr F £419.99. It must also 
add interest on the £419.99 at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the 
date Mr F made the payment to M for the phone until the date of settlement.
If Tesco considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a 
tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr F can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr F should refer back to Tesco if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman