DRN-3816782
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs Z complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt 
allow Mr Z to transfer money out of his current account.
For ease, I will refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr Z. 
What happened
Mr Z had both a savings and current account with Halifax. On 31 December 2020 Mr Z 
visited his local Halifax branch and provided staff with identification so that a restriction on 
his current account, dating from September 2020, could be lifted. At the same time Halifax 
refunded £1,500 to Mr Z for a fraudulent transaction on his account. On the same day Mr Z 
transferred £8,000 from his Halifax savings account to his Halifax current account.  
Mr Z complained to Halifax on 11 January 2021 and said he tried unsuccessfully numerous 
times on 1 January 2021 to transfer £8,000 from his Halifax current account to an account 
he held with another bank, who Ill refer to as Company A. Mr Z said he then made several 
trips to his local branch during the first week of January 2021 about the transfer. He said it 
had been his intention to use the money to buy cryptocurrency, and believes he lost in the 
region of £4,000 profit as a result of not being able to invest his money. He asked Halifax to 
compensate him for this loss.   
The £8,000 transfer from Mr Zs account to Company A was completed on 13 January 2021. 
Halifax responded to Mr Zs complaint and said the transfers were declined because they 
were flagged by its fraud team. It recognised this caused inconvenience but were necessary 
to safeguard Mr Zs account. But Halifax offered to pay £50 compensation as it said it could 
have provided better customer service afterwards as Mr Z had to phone it more than once 
and had to visit the branch. It also offered to cover Mr Zs phone expenses.   
Mr Z was unhappy with the response from Halifax and so complained to this Service. He 
said by the time the transfer was made, he was no longer able to make the planned 
cryptocurrency purchase and so suffered a financial loss. Mr Z said this has also had an 
impact on his mental health. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said the evidence from Halifax suggested 
that the block on Mr Zs current account was removed on 31 December 2020 and was only 
reapplied to his account on 14 January 2021. So she thought any difficulty Mr Z had in 
making payments during this time was not caused by Halifax. 
Mr Z didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. I 
contacted both Mr Z and Halifax to request further information, which they provided. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 October 2022 and said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Z 
and Mrs Zs complaint, although my reasons for doing so were different to those of our 
Investigator. So I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr Z responded and said he didnt think Halifax had any right to stop him transferring money 
from one personal bank account to another. He also said he should have been provided with 
an explanation about what had gone wrong and it shouldnt have taken so long to rectify. 
Halifax did not respond. 
I am now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he brought the complaint to this Service Mr Z said he thought his account had been 
blocked by Halifax. Halifax has told this Service that a block was lifted on 31 December 2020 
and wasnt reapplied until 14 January 2021. So, from what Ive seen, there was no block on 
Mr Zs current account during the period of time he was trying to make the £8,000 transfer to 
his account with Company A. 
But what I can see is that the attempts made by Mr Z to transfer money to his account with 
Company A  six attempts in all  were flagged by Halifaxs security team and this is why the 
transfers couldnt be made. So Mr Zs account wasnt blocked as such, it was the individual 
transactions that were flagged by security and then declined. 
So Ive first of all looked at whether Halifax made an error or acted unfairly when it declined 
the transfers, and Im satisfied it didnt. Ill explain why. 
Broadly speaking, banks  as businesses regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  are 
required to take reasonable steps to safeguard their customers accounts. So to guard 
against, for instance, possible fraud. This may involve, as it did here, stopping certain 
transactions. 
From what Ive seen, the steps taken by Halifax were reasonable. Mr Z had, just hours 
before the attempted transfer, a restriction lifted from his Halifax account after he was the 
victim of fraud. So I can appreciate why an attempt to transfer such a large amount of £8,000 
from his account so soon after might have been flagged by the security team. Im satisfied 
that although Mr Z was undoubtedly inconvenienced by the transfer being declined, Halifax 
didnt act unreasonably here as it was ultimately trying to safeguard Mr Z. Its because 
Halifax hasnt acted unreasonably here or made an error that I am not asking it to 
compensate Mr Z for that inconvenience or for the amount he says he lost by not being able 
to invest his money in cryptocurrency. 
Halifax has acknowledged that it didnt provide good customer service after the transfers 
were declined, as it said Mr Z had to call it more than once to try and sort this out and also 
had to visit the branch. Halifax has already offered £50 compensation for this inconvenience. 
So Ive looked at whether this is a fair amount given the circumstances, and I think it is.  
I dont know whether Halifax contacted Mr Z when the payments were declined. But, 
nonetheless, from what I can see Mr Z knew to contact Halifax and did just that very soon 
after to try and sort this matter out. 
From what Mr Z said, he called and visited his local branch a few times before the transfer 
was made. I can see how this would be both frustrating and inconvenient. But, as I said, it 
was always going to be the case that Mr Z experienced a certain amount of unavoidable 
inconvenience when the transfer was flagged by the security team and was then declined. So any compensation should be for the avoidable inconvenience he experienced. I can see 
that Halifax certainly thought it hadnt provided good customer service and this should have 
been dealt with more quickly. But I think the £50 compensation already offered is fair, to 
account for Mr Z having to do slightly more than Halifax would usually expect to get this 
matter sorted out. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr Z and Mrs Z, but I am not asking Halifax to do anything 
further here.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Z and Mrs Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman