DRN-3235470
The complaint
Mr K says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London), trading as 
United Friendly Insurance (UFI), is responsible for giving him unsuitable advice to opt out of 
the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS); and for failing to advise him to opt 
into his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr K is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr Ks dealings with Royal London appear to have been initiated in early 1992. During April 
of that year he received advice to transfer deferred benefits from an OPS hed accrued with 
a former employer into a personal pension. Around the same time, he was advised to opt out 
of SERPS and establish a second personal pension with the rebates due. He was also 
persuaded to establish a third personal pension plan and to make contributions to this.
FR raised a complaint in November 2019 with Royal London about what had happened to 
Mr Ks deferred OPS benefits. Royal London reviewed his case and found it had missed him 
out of the Pension Review exercise that took place between 1994 and 2004. This had been 
due to an administrative error on its part.
FR raised another complaint on Mr Ks behalf in February 2020. This time it focussed on 
Royal Londons advice him to contract out of SERPS. It said this had been unsuitable for 
several reasons including his lack of experience of pension and investment matters.
Royal London sent Mr K a letter in April 2020 accepting things had gone wrong in 1992. It 
had been unable to conclude from its review that the advice to transfer his OPS benefits had 
been suitable. It offered him compensation to put things right. Mr K accepted its offer in May 
2020.
Royal London acknowledges that despite uncovering wider matters on Mr Ks account during 
its review, it failed to address these in April 2020. It had focussed solely on the transfer of his 
OPS benefits. It hadnt considered circumstances around the two other personal pensions it 
had established for him in 1992.
Royal London still hadnt given Mr K its final response on these wider matters prior to his 
complaint being referred to this Service. When that happened, it acknowledged its failing and 
then set out its position. In summary, it thought its advice for Mr K to opt out of SERPS had 
been suitable because of the level of his earnings and his age.
Royal London also noted that it had only received one rebate in relation to Mr Ks SERPS 
plan. And that hed closed this second pension plan and switched the proceeds to Legal & 
General in 1994. It said hed only ever made one contribution of £20 to his third pension 
plan. So, it had lapsed with no value.
During the time Mr Ks complaint has been with this Service, FR has broadened its argument 
further. It said that in 1992 Royal London had failed to advise Mr K about the advantages of 
joining his employers OPS, which it said was available to him at the time. Instead it had sold 
him personal pensions.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. He couldnt see that hed been given best advice 
about what action to take, because it seemed more likely than not he couldve joined his 
employers OPS. Royal London failed to respond to his findings and conclusions, and so Mr 
Ks complaint was passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in December 
2021. Neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, so I see no reason to 
depart from my initial findings and conclusions in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ks complaint has evolved while its been with this Service. That is in part due to the mix-
up at Royal London in addressing FRs two separate but related complaints. The Investigator 
decided to consider all matters arising together. So, Ill start by addressing the scope of this 
complaint and the investigators approach.
This Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any complaint. The 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) should make rules for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a 
consumer hasnt communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mr K has expressed his complaint but about what the crux or 
substance of his concern is really about. The DISP rules required Royal London to look fairly 
at the 'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and 
impartial. The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific 
circumstances of his complaint. This Service must also think about what lies at the heart of a 
complaint and look at the whole picture.
Mr Ks case, as brought on his behalf by FR, included concerns about the suitability of the 
advice he received in 1992 regarding his pension arrangements. I dont think the Investigator 
wouldve been considering those concerns properly if he hadnt looked at the advice process 
as a whole. So, Im satisfied that I can look at the issue of the whether the option of joining 
his employers OPS was taken into account.
Im also satisfied Royal London has had several opportunities to fully respond to these 
broader matters.
Next, Ill turn to the regulatory position for firms offering pension and investment advice, 
which has evolved significantly over the decades. As has the guidance issued by the various 
industry bodies. I note Royal Londons predecessor (UFI) was a member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO).All the retail regulators issued guidance to their respective members in relation to final salary 
pension schemes. The regulators acquired their authority from the Financial Services Act 
1986. The rules drawn up by them under these provisions can be viewed as a series of 
layers. There was a common theme established within the industry. At its broadest, three 
core obligations were imposed on a financial adviser, to know the client, to make suitable 
recommendations and to provide best advice. So, I need to bear these matters in mind in 
deciding this case.
Im also mindful that in October 1994, the then regulator established an industry-wide review 
of particular pension business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. This was generally known as the Pension Review. The advice Mr K received 
shouldve been covered by this exercise.
The Pension Review was set up due to concerns about unsuitable advice being given by 
firms during this period, for clients to transfer or opt out of OPSs with guaranteed benefits, 
into personal pension plans where the protections were lost and benefits dependent on 
investment returns.
If the advice given was found to have been unsuitable, the regulator provided a process, 
which businesses had to follow to determine whether the consumer had suffered a loss. If 
there was a loss, the methodology also calculated what the business needed to do in order 
to put the consumer back into the position they shouldve been in, but for the unsuitable 
advice.
The Pension Review methodology and associated calculations were based on several 
actuarial assumptions. The calculations were complex and had to be completed by a 
qualified actuary, using specialist software. The exercise was intended to be a one-time only 
assessment. The redress paid wasnt intended to be ongoing or reviewable.
As we know, the advice Mr K received in 1992 wasnt reviewed as it shouldve been. Royal 
London subsequently completed a review in 2020 and provided him with compensation for 
its unsuitable advice to transfer his OPS benefits. But it has since confirmed that it failed to 
take into account other aspects of the advice it gave him in 1992.
There are 4 main factors I consider when looking at advice to contract out of SERPS:
- How old was the consumer when they were advised and what was the pivotal age for 
the provider at the time of advice?
- Did the provider set a minimum earnings amount and was the consumer earning 
more or less than that?
- Was the consumer willing to take a risk?
- Did the employer offer a pension scheme the consumer could join and did the 
consumer join that scheme?
The Investigator said there was no dispute that based on Mr Ks age and income at the time 
of the advice, he was a suitable candidate for contracting out of SERPS via a personal 
pension. Royal London said he was below the pivotal age and earning above the lower 
earnings limit. FR hasnt disputed these matters. Id simply caveat the Investigators finding 
here to note these factors made him a potentially suitable candidate. There are two other 
tests to consider.We dont have information about Mr Ks appetite for risk at the time. Royal London says it 
wasnt a regulatory requirement to record this in April 1992. Id simply refer to the three 
fundamental expectations on all businesses at the time i.e. to know its client, provide 
suitable recommendations and best advice. These obligations wouldve required some 
consideration of matters such as risk and capacity for loss.
FR says the risks associated with contracting out of SERPS werent appropriate for Mr K. 
But it hasnt produced clear contemporaneous evidence to support its position.
Due to the lack of information about Mr Ks risk appetite, Id have to draw a conclusion here 
on the balance of probabilities. Given the length of time between when he received advice 
and his retirement and based on reasonable assumptions of investment growth at the time, 
and therefore the prospect for him to be better off, the advice to contract-out of SERPS 
couldve been, more likely than not, suitable.
The problem for Royal London concerns Mr Ks employer at the time. FR told us:
[Mr K] was employed by Short Brothers from May 1990 to mid-1995. His salary was c. 
£16,000. He was not made aware that there was an occupational pension schemeThis is 
of course something that his financial adviser should have checked before selling him a 
personal pension.
FR has provided evidence which appears to show there was a company pension scheme 
available to Mr K, which he couldve joined in April 1992. The point of sale paperwork Ive 
seen, records Mr K wasnt part of an employer scheme at the time. Theres no further 
evidence of what was discussed between him and the adviser about his entitlement to join, 
and the benefits associated with his employer scheme.
If an employer provides an OPS and if an employee had a right to join it, after initially not 
opting to do so (as appears to be the case here), then it would usually have been advisable 
for that employee to join.
Royal London needed to have made Mr K aware of any entitlement to join his employers 
OPS as part of providing a suitable recommendation and best advice. If Mr K couldve joined 
his employer's pension scheme but Royal London failed to recommend he did so, instead 
selling him personal pension plans to receive contracted-out deductions and making 
personal contributions, that wouldnt have been treating him fairly.
While the information we have from 1992 isnt perfect - perhaps inevitably given the events 
happened nearly 30 years ago  its of note that Royal London has already accepted that it 
gave Mr K unsuitable advice at the time to transfer his deferred OPS benefits. It also 
subsequently agreed it shouldve provided a response in April 2020 that considered all 
aspects of the advice it had given him in 1992.
Given theres no evidence Mr K was advised by Royal London of any entitlement to OPS 
membership, Ive concluded its more likely than not it failed to provide him with enough 
information about the benefits of joining an occupational scheme. Had such an opportunity 
been available, and had it provided such advice, I think hed have taken up membership of 
the OPS, had this been available, instead of establishing the personal pension plans he did.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, on balance its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against Royal London and for it to undertake research and where 
appropriate to carry out the required calculations to put things right.
Putting things rightAs Im upholding Mr Ks case he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited responsible for.
I consider that if Mr K had been entitled to join his employers OPS in 1992, at the time he 
received advice, he wouldve done so.
Mr K, or his representative, will now need to work with Royal London, perhaps by providing it 
with a letter of authority, that will enable it to make contact with third parties that hold key 
information about his pension entitlements and arrangements for the relevant period. In 
particular, that will include his former employer and/or the trustees of the OPS in question.
If appropriate, The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should then undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the Pension Review methodology, as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
Royal London may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ks contribution history to SERPS. These details should then be used to include a 
SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of not joining 
the occupational scheme on his SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If any redress calculation required demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
Any compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date 
Royal London receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Royal London to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. As such, I require The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman