DRN-3763009
The complaint
Mrs O complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) failed to identify the source of a leak 
and declined her first claim.
What happened
Mrs O had buildings and contents insurance with esure. She made a claim under her policy 
after water leaked from her en-suite bathroom to the room below. esure inspected the 
damage and carried out tests to identify the source. It concluded that the shower frame 
wasn't sealed properly so the water was escaping and pooling in the adjoining cupboard. 
Once the floor was saturated, it broke through the ceiling of the room below.
esure said the policy didnt cover escape of water due to problems with the sealant and it 
declined Mrs Os claim.
Mrs O didnt think esure had properly identified the source of the leak and she complained 
that the toilet in the same room was making unusual noises. This caused her inconvenience 
when trying to sleep so she moved into her childs room.
esure said the dye tests showed that the leak came from the shower, and the water damage 
was directly below. Mrs O asked esure to investigate her concerns about a leak from the 
toilet, but esure said the policy didnt provide cover for that.
Mrs Os home suffered further damage from an escape of water, so she contacted esure 
again. When esure inspected the damage, it identified that the leak was from the toilet in the 
en-suite bathroom. esure accepted the claim for what it considered to be a new leak. 
When assessing the damage, esure couldnt tell what damage was from the shower leak 
and what was from the toilet, so it covered the full cost of repairs. Because of the long lead 
times for the flooring contractors, it cash settled that element of the claim with Mrs O. 
However, Mrs Os flooring contractor found that the floor was still wet and had to delay laying 
the replacement until the floor had fully dried out.
Mrs O complained to esure. She said it failed to identify that the leak was from the toilet, 
despite her saying the problem seemed to be coming from there. Because of that, her home 
suffered further damage. Mrs O also complained that esures poor handling of her claim 
caused living difficulties for her and her children, inconvenience, avoidable delays, a lack of 
communication from esure, and inconsistent information about whether her first claim was 
being dealt with. She said it shouldve been one claim and esure shouldve dealt with it 
properly from the start.
esure accepted that it hadnt handled parts of her claim as well as it couldve done. It 
acknowledged that it gave confusing information about whether the claim was accepted, but 
esure didnt agree that there was just one claim. esure maintained that tests showed the first 
leak was from the shower, and the toilet leak was a second claim. But, in light of the 
confusion with the first claim, and the lack of contact throughout, esure paid a total of £400 
compensation. Mrs O didnt think esure had responded to her complaint appropriately, so 
she brought it to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. She said esures tests showed thered 
been two leaks, but esure repaired all the damage anyway. She noted that esure paid a 
disturbance allowance because Mrs O and her children couldnt all use the other bathroom. 
While our investigator found that esure hadnt handled the claim as well as it shouldve done 
and she agreed compensation was due, our investigator thought the amount esure had 
already offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said shed also complained about the increase in her premiums but 
esure hadnt replied. Mrs O felt that esures failure to look into her concerns about the leak 
being wrongly identified, and its incorrect conclusion that the water had soaked into 
insulation causing it to become too heavy for the ceiling, hadnt been fully addressed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs O will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive given some detail about Mrs Os complaint already, but I wont comment on every piece 
of evidence or detail of the complaint. Instead, Ill address the complaint as a whole. 
I understand Mrs O thinks the leak was coming from her toilet all along and that esure 
shouldve dealt with the problem as a single claim. It may well be the case that the toilet was 
leaking when esure first inspected the damage. But the evidence shows that esure identified 
a separate leak from the shower. Its dye test clearly confirmed that the water coming from 
the shower was dripping through the ceiling below, and the infra-red images showed the 
shower to be the source. 
Once esure identified the source of the leak, I wouldnt have expected it to continue checking 
for more leaks. It was Mrs Os responsibility to show shed suffered an insured peril, but the 
evidence indicated that the escape of water was caused by inadequate sealing between the 
shower frame and the wall. The policy doesnt provide cover in these circumstances. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that esure fairly declined the claim.
When Mrs O repeated her claim for an escape of water, esure accepted that it was now from 
the toilet and covered under the policy. I can understand that Mrs O thinks esure couldve 
prevented this additional damage. But as Ive said, I wouldnt expect esure to continue 
looking for other leaks once it identified the source of the damage.
Nevertheless, Ive thought about what I wouldve asked esure to do if the original leak was 
from the toilet. If esure made a mistake, my role is to require action which puts Mrs O back in 
the position she was in before the event. So, I wouldve asked esure to cover the full repairs. 
But esure has done that already because it couldnt separate the damage caused by each of 
the two leaks. So, theres nothing Id need to ask esure to put right anyway.
In respect of the compensation, Id need to see that its a reasonable sum to address the 
parts of the claim where esures action fell short of what Mrs O could reasonably expect. I 
see it caused confusion and inconvenience when it responded to the first claim. And I see esure didnt maintain any level of consistent contact with Mrs O, such that she might be 
reassured her claim was being dealt with. Taking these aspects of the claim into account, 
esures offer of £400 was fair and reasonable. To be clear, I cant require esure to pay for 
the inconvenience Mrs O experienced because of the two escapes of water: I can only 
require it to compensate for the additional inconvenience its actions caused. Im satisfied its 
done that.
Finally, Ill comment on the two specific points Mrs O raised when she asked me to consider 
her complaint.
Premiums
I see that Mrs O asked esure to look into the reason for her premium increasing and whether 
it was because of two claims being recorded. esure considered that to be a question rather 
than a complaint. As esure didnt address this as a complaint in its final response to Mrs O, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to reach a decision on this issue. The compensation covers 
the issue of esure not responding, but Mrs O would need to raise a separate complaint if she 
is unhappy with esures reason for increasing her premium.
Insulation
Mrs O said esures claim that saturated insulation caused her ceiling to collapse is evidence 
of its failure to properly identify the leak. I understand there wasn't any insulation present, so 
the conclusion was wrong. While I see why Mrs O cant place any faith on what esure said 
because of this factual inaccuracy, it doesnt change the outcome. esure concluded that 
shower water pooled in the space between the bathroom floor and ceiling below. Whether or 
not that was filled with insulation doesnt change the fact that the floor became saturated and 
the ceiling collapsed.   
Overall, I sympathise with Mrs Os position of experiencing the escape of water, but Im 
satisfied that esure has put matters right. The compensation payment was in line with what 
Id expect under the circumstances, so I wont be asking esure to do any more in respect of 
Mrs Os complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman