DRN-3534813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about their residential mortgage lender Santander UK Plc. Mr and 
Mrs A complain that Santander:
- mistakenly took a charge over another property that they own in 2006;
- treated them unfairly when issues arose as a result of this in 2019,
- accused Mr and Mrs A of being dishonest,
- took away access to flexible features within their mortgage, and
- didnt handle the complaint efficiently with delays in responding to them and
poor communication throughout.
Mr and Mrs A believe that Santander has breached mortgage regulation and the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage. They consider that Santanders actions have made the mortgage 
void. Mr and Mrs A say Mrs A has suffered ill health and lost her job due to this complaint, 
and theyve lost rental income and been unable to sell their properties because of 
Santanders actions.
Mr and Mrs A want Santander to extend their mortgage term by ten years and agree to take 
a charge over their residential property. Theyd like Santander to cover all the compensation 
for the upset this matter has caused them.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs A bought a property to live in, which I shall refer to as Property A. In 
2004 they purchased the adjoining property, Property B. They planned to develop Property 
B in the future.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs A remortgaged their residential property, Property A, with Santander. 
Mr and Mrs A borrowed £195,699 on an interest only basis on a flexible offset mortgage to 
be repaid after 18 years.
As a condition of the mortgage offer, Santander sought to take a charge over Mr and Mrs 
As home (Property A) as security for the loan. A legal firm (Legal Firm A) carried out the 
conveyancing work on behalf of Mr and Mrs A and Santander relating to the remortgage. 
During the remortgage process, Santander accidentally took a legal charge over Property 
B rather than Property A.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs A converted Property B to two separate rental properties (Properties C 
and D). As they understood Property B was unencumbered (owned outright with no 
mortgage) Mr and Mrs A didnt split the title.
In early 2019 a Deed of Substituted Security was sent to Santander by solicitors who 
had acted for Mr and Mrs A in the past (predating the mortgage with Santander). I shall 
refer to this firm of solicitors as Legal Firm B. In this letter from Legal Firm B, it asked 
that Santander accept Property A as security rather than Property B. The letter said 
Hopefully this can then be registered by you and the matter put to bed. Legal Firm B 
said the letter was not an admission of liability. Evidence shared with us, and mentioned 
in call recordings with Santander, shows that Mr and Mrs A raised a formal complaint 
about Legal Firm B.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A wanted to sell Property A and Properties C and D. However, when 
they explored bridging financing over the rental properties it came to light that there was 
a charge over Property B held by Santander.
Mr and Mrs A highlighted this error to Santander. They wanted Santander to remove its 
charge over Property B and transfer it to Property A. Mr and Mrs A said they needed this 
to happen so they could split the title of Property B. This would enable them to raise 
bridging finance on properties C & D.
In March 2019 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs A saying it wouldnt agree to release its 
charge on Property B without either redemption of the mortgage, or agreement of Mr and 
Mrs A that a valuation could be completed on Property A. Santander said if the valuation 
was acceptable, it would look to initiate a Deed of Substitution to transfer its charge.
Following the valuation, Santander highlighted it had been made aware of potential issues 
with taking a charge over Property A (in relation to shared access and services). 
Santanders credit department wouldnt agree to changing the charge to Property A, and 
instead asked that the loan be redeemed. 
On 12 April 2019 Mr and Mrs A complained to Santander. They complained that they 
couldnt sell or rent their properties because of what they considered to be Santanders 
mistake, and they faced significant financial loss as a consequence. They also complained 
that Santander had accused them of lying and being complicit in a charge being taken over 
the wrong property. Mr and Mrs A asked that Santander compensate them for lost rental 
revenue on Properties C and D, additional costs incurred by them in resolving the dispute, 
the distress caused by Santanders treatment of them, and the disappointment and upset of 
them losing the small holding they wanted to buy.
On 7 May 2019 Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs A saying that it had been looking into issues 
with its charge. It had realised as part of its investigation, that its charge over Property B had 
actually been removed as a result of human error. Santander no longer held any security 
against the mortgage and said Mr and Mrs A were in breach of their mortgage agreement. It 
also said that it had instructed a firm of solicitors to prepare a report to understand what had 
happened and how to rectify the situation. By June 2019, Santander told Mr and Mrs A that it 
had now passed the matter to a third party solicitor.
In July 2019 a further valuation was carried out for mortgage purposes. Santander said it 
would be appointing solicitors to put a charge on Property A.
During 2019 Santander withdrew the flexible features of Mr and Mrs As mortgage (such as 
the available funds facility and access to the savings pot). It said it did this to prevent the 
balance of the mortgage increasing while the issues with the charge on the property were 
resolved. Santander said that Mr and Mrs A could continue to make overpayments to reduce 
the mortgage balance, and that if they wanted to draw money from the savings pot then they 
may be able to do this but they would need to call customer services.
Santander has investigated this complaint and has issued more than one final response to 
Mr and Mrs As concerns. Santander issued a final response in 20 April 2019, not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint. Santander said it had been the previous lender and its agents 
who had given the incorrect title number to Santanders solicitors. Santander said the issue 
with the security wasnt its fault.
On 23 December 2019 Santander issued a second final response upholding part of Mr and 
Mrs As complaint. It apologised for the time it had taken to look into that had happened and 
paid Mr and Mrs A £500 for delays in its response. But it didnt uphold the other parts of their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs A were dissatisfied with Santanders response and rejected its offer of £500 for 
delays in looking into their complaint. This money has been left in an account while the 
complaint was referred to us. Mr and Mrs A have said they want much higher compensation 
to settle the matter.
Since Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us, Santanders solicitors have said that it will 
pay for the cost of perfecting its security. But it wont pay for the cost of what it considers to 
be non-essential work, such as splitting the title of Mr and Mrs As development property - 
Property B so that Properties C and D can be sold separately.
It also considered that amending the boundaries may be non-essential work and it wouldnt 
agree to paying these costs. Santander said it would review this situation following a 
surveyor visiting the property to draw up plans of the physical boundaries. Santander said it 
would pay for the surveyor.
This complaint has been looked at by two of our investigators. Neither investigator thought 
the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A strongly disagreed with our investigators 
findings, saying, in summary:
- theyve had to fight Santander for three years over this dispute;
- Santander isnt interested in correcting the problem which is having a detrimental effect on 
Mrs As health and Mr and Mrs As finances;
- Santander has accused us of all sorts, lied and believed their solicitor and an incompetent 
surveyor;
- Santander doesnt hold a charge over any of Mr and Mrs As properties, and thats because 
it made a mistake taking a charge over the wrong property in the first instance;
- If Santander had accepted they had a charge over the wrong property in 2019, and had 
followed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles, it would have been resolved then 
if theyd taken a charge over the correct property at that point;
- They are in complete limbo, unable to sell any of their houses or apply for a buy to
let mortgage and have been threatened with court action from Santander.
Mr and Mrs A asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on the matter.
I issued a jurisdiction decision dated 13 May 2022. This set out why I was unable to consider 
the part of this complaint about the conveyancing work completed by a firm of solicitors 
acting for Santander and Mr and Mrs A in 2006. However, it also explained why I could look 
at the remaining parts of Mr and Mrs As complaint about how Santander had handled things 
since the issue with its security had come to light.My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 25 May 2022 which explained why I was planning 
to uphold part of Mr and Mrs As complaint. I also set out what I thought Santander should 
do now to put things right. 
In summary, I considered that Santander had had a legitimate contractual need to try and 
resolve the situation it has found itself in. And I considered it fair that Santander had tried to 
find a remedy that was agreeable to it and Mr and Mrs A going forward. I also thought it was 
reasonable that Santander appointed a third party legal firm to try to remedy its position. And 
that Santander had covered the cost of any work required to perfect its security including the 
further valuations to explore the title of Properties A, B, C and D as potential security to 
support the existing mortgage loan.
However, I thought the way that Santander had handled this matter- including the withdrawal 
of the flexible mortgage features and online banking access- was handled poorly and led to 
unnecessary worry and upset for Mr and Mrs A.
I could also see why Mr and Mrs A had felt the need to commission the surveyor who had 
first visited their property years before to come back and verify which property hed visited 
when this mortgage was taken out. Mr and Mrs A had felt the need to defend themselves as 
Santander had initially implied that Mr and Mrs A had misled the valuer and taken him to the 
wrong property deliberately. 
Mr and Mrs A had shown us evidence that the original valuer returned to help them defend 
their position and that they paid £600 for this return visit. I thought it was appropriate that 
Santander reimbursed Mr and Mrs A for the cost of this visit and report as part of the 
resolution of this complaint. 
I understood why this would have been deeply upsetting to Mr and Mrs A and made them 
feel they needed to take steps to protect their reputation. At times Santander has unfairly 
accused Mr and Mrs A of trying to withhold information and deliberately mislead it. And there 
have been considerable delays which Santander staff have acknowledged and apologised 
for multiple times in call recordings shared with us. In recognition of the significant impact 
Santanders handling of this matter has had on Mr and Mrs A, I think the trouble and upset 
payment of £500 already made should be increased by a further £1,000. This takes the total 
payment for trouble and upset caused to £1,500.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr and Mrs A responded to my provisional decision. In summary, they were disappointed 
that my provisional findings didnt:
- make an award for loss of earnings of around £24,000 as Mrs A was so upset by this 
dispute that she was unable to work;
- give Santander a time limit to resolve this issue; and
- tell Santander to extend the term of this interest only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs A say they feel Santander isnt accountable to anyone. They are concerned that 
Santander hasnt complied with FCA principles and that there should be some enforcement 
action in that regard. Mr and Mrs A also said that they understand the HM Land Registry 
carried out corrections concerning the addresses around 2008.Santander replied to say it would agree to the compensation set out in my provisional 
findings. Santander said it would need evidence of the date that Mr and Mrs A paid £600 to 
the surveyor who revisited their property in 2019 so it could calculate the redress to settle 
this complaint as set out in my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the further comments made by Mr and Mrs A before 
reaching my final decision. Having done so, I have decided not to depart from the findings in 
my second provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel the compensation awarded should be higher. I can 
understand that this whole matter has been incredibly stressful for them both and has 
continued since early 2019. However, there are wider issues at play here, involving errors 
that fall outside of my determination of this complaint brought against Santander. 
Im only able to consider and make an award for the financial loss and upset caused to Mr 
and Mrs A since this issue came to light in 2019 which is attributable to the actions of 
Santander. 
Mrs A has explained that due to the problems with their properties she became unwell and 
was unable to keep working. I can see why Mrs A would like Santander to make up for this 
loss in her earnings in recent years. However, I dont think it is clear that Mrs As inability to 
work came about solely as a result of Santanders actions at the start of 2019, or that it has 
directly led to her not being able to work since that time. It may be a contributory factor, but I 
dont consider Santander can be held solely responsible, And, as it isnt clear that this loss 
has come about due to Santanders actions, I dont think I can reasonably ask Santander to 
make this payment to Mr and Mrs A to settle this dispute. 
I also dont think it would be appropriate for me to extend the term of this interest only 
mortgage when there isnt currently any security supporting the transaction and there 
remains a dispute about the existing mortgage contract. 
I have upheld Mr and Mrs As complaint about Santanders handling of the matter. And the 
award I have directed takes into account both Mr and Mrs As financial loss and the upset 
caused by Santanders handling of this issue since early 2019, when the conveyancing 
problem came to light. 
As Ive also explained, I believe Santander has a legitimate contractual entitlement to seek 
security to support this mortgage contract and it is taking steps to that end. I dont consider 
that the FCA principles prevent Santander from seeking to remedy its contractual position or 
its entitlement to security to support this mortgage loan. And I dont consider Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by working to remedy its security to support the mortgage 
contract. 
Putting things right
I think its reasonable that Santander should reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the cost of the 
valuers report that they commissioned, plus 8% simple interest. This should be calculated 
from the date Mr and Mrs A paid the sum to the surveyor to the date of settlement of this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs A will need to provide evidence to us or Santander of the date that 
the surveyor was paid for the purposes of calculating this part of the award.If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also consider it fair that Santander pays an additional amount of £1,000 for the trouble and 
upset its handling of this matter has caused Mr and Mrs A.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Santander UK Plc should be upheld. 
Santander UK Plc should do the following to put things right:
- pay the cost of the valuers report that Mr and Mrs A commissioned, plus 8% simple
interest from the date Mr and Mrs A paid a sum to the surveyor to the date of
settlement of this complaint, and
- pay an additional amount of £1,000 for the trouble and upset its handling of this
matter has caused Mr and Mrs A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman