DRN-3358868
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with AWP P&C SAs decision to decline their travel insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AWP declined their claim for accommodation costs as they 
were unable to go on holiday to France. 
Mr and Mrs B bought an annual travel insurance policy in February 2020 to cover trips made 
from 15 February 2020 to 14 February 2021, including a trip to France. They were due to 
travel on 29 April 2020 and return on 6 May 2020.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised UK residents against all but essential travel abroad, in addition to restrictions 
placed by the French government. As such, Mr and Mrs Bs trip was sadly cancelled on 17 
April 2020.
Mr and Mrs B paid for flights and accommodation separately, so this wasnt a package 
booking. They contacted their accommodation provider who told them their booking was 
non-refundable.
Mr and Mrs B claimed on their travel policy with AWP for the cost of their accommodation. 
They also submitted evidence showing that their refund request had been declined by the 
provider. AWP said that Covid-19 related cancellations werent covered under the policy, 
and so declined their claim.
Our investigator accepted that the reason Mr and Mrs B made the claim wasnt listed as 
one of the insured perils. However, she felt that it wouldnt be fair for AWP to decline it 
because had they followed the Foreign Commonwealth Offices (FCOs) advice and not 
travelled, thered be no cover available. She also noted that had they essentially ignored 
the advice and travelled to France, thered still be no cover available in those 
circumstances either. She felt that Mr and Mrs B were caught between the policy terms and 
that this wasnt made particularly clear. She didnt think it reasonable for AWP to rely on 
these terms to decline the claim when they werent made prominently and transparently 
clear. 
AWP hasnt responded to our investigators findings, despite several prompts from the 
ombudsman requesting its closing arguments. And so, its now for me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page two it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or World Heath Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer  
The policy terms and conditions say, on page 12: under the heading Section A  
Cancellation o r  Curtailment Charges, say:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover (see page 11) for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs, pre-booked excursion costs, 
organised event fees and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to 
pay, together with any additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip is 
unavoidable or the trip is curtailed before completion as a result of any of the following 
specified events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result 
of pregnancy of:
a. you;
b. any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. any person who you have arranged to stay with;
d. your close relative;
e. your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling with, or have arranged to travel with, 
being quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or called for jury service 
attendance.
3. Your redundancy or the redundancy of any person you are travelling with or have 
arranged to travel with. The redundancy must qualify for payment under current 
redundancy payment legislation in your home country, and at the time of booking 
the trip there must have been no reason to believe anyone would be made 
redundant.
4. You or any person who you are travelling with, or have arranged to travel with, is 
a member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance Services or an employee of a Government Department and has 
authorised leave cancelled or is called up for operational reasons, provided that 
the cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the 
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due 
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs B had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs B.   
Mr and Mrs B would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that 
this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and 
Mrs B and AWP. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have purchased the 
policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. At the time they purchased this 
policy theyd have been able to buy an alternative policy which offered cover for 
changes in FCDO advice. 
Putting things right
Im directing AWP P&C SA to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. AWP P&C SA should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman