DRN-2907720
The complaint
Mr S complains about Revolut Ltds actions in relation to a scam in which he lost £3,888.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr S received a call from a fraudster pretending to be from HMRC  who 
he genuinely owed money to at that time. The fraudster told him he needed to pay 
immediately, or hed be arrested and taken to court. He transferred £3,900 into his account, 
then transferred £3,888 to the fraudsters over four transactions. Later that same day, he 
realised the call was a scam and reported it to Revolut. It attempted to recover the funds, 
and initially couldnt do so  but has since been able to recover one payment of £993. 
Revolut considers Mr S liable for the remaining loss. But our investigator recommended that 
it should refund the outstanding £2,895, plus interest, and pay £100 compensation. He didnt 
think it had taken appropriate action to prevent the loss, despite identifying the first payment 
as suspicious. But Revolut says it response was sufficient as it initially blocked the payment 
and displayed a warning message. As Mr S dismissed this, and as he genuinely owed 
money to HMRC, it doesnt think that further action would have prevented the loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mr S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payments. So, although 
he didnt intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.  
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr Ss transactions were relatively high value payments, made in quick succession to new 
payees, utilising around 97% of the account balance  nearly all of which had been 
transferred in immediately prior. These are common indicators of fraud or scams. It seems 
Revolut accepts this, as it has confirmed that it identified the first payment as suspicious. 
So what Ive considered is whether it did enough in response to this. 
Did Revolut respond appropriately to the risk of financial harm from fraud that it identified?
Revolut has explained that it blocked the first payment and displayed a message which 
said:
Review transfer
Our systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to 
protect you.
If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. 
As we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the 
payment, if the person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all of your 
money and never get it back.
You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
Mr S clicked OK to this message and proceeded to make the payment again, followed by 
three more payments  which werent blocked. Revolut has also shown us the warning it 
displayed when Mr S added the new payees. This said not to pay them if he was unsure he 
knew and trusted them, and explained that fraudsters can impersonate others. 
Revolut considers this response sufficient in the circumstances. But as a matter of good 
industry practice, I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have done more. While I appreciate 
that banks are generally expected to follow payment instructions, that isnt an unfettered 
duty. Reasonable checks and balances are also required as part of the broad regulatory 
landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud and financial 
harm. I accept theres a limit to what a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers 
to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly bear some of the loss if there is 
clear evidence of blame on their part (see below). But in this case, Im conscious that 
Revolut had already disrupted the payment journey by blocking the payment. And Im not 
persuaded that the subsequent action it took was enough to meet its obligations to protect its 
customer from financial harm from fraud. 
I appreciate that Revolut warned Mr S that it considered the transaction to be highly 
suspicious. But the warning didnt explain why that was. And Revolut then allowed Mr S to 
make the payment without knowing anything more about the purpose of the payment or the 
circumstances surrounding it. It also didnt intervene further with any of the subsequent 
transactions  despite these, in my view, appearing more suspicious. As mentioned above, 
the pattern of payments to new payees in quick succession, utilising most of the available 
balance, fits a common pattern of fraudulent activity.
An important feature of the type of scam Mr S fell victim to is that the consumer is induced to 
make the payments themselves, and that theyre unaware of the scam. That affects the 
impact of a warning like the one Revolut used in Mr Ss case. It didnt give any further 
information about why the payment appeared suspicious  or any information about the type 
of scam he was at risk from (or really any scams). In the circumstances, I think it would have 
been more appropriate for Revolut to contact Mr S directly, or require him to get in touch, to 
make further enquiries about the payment. It doesnt appear that Mr S was given a cover story for these payments. So if asked by 
Revolut, I think he would have explained that hed been told that he needed to make 
immediate payment to HMRC  or hed be arrested and taken to court. I would then have 
expected Revolut, which would have more awareness of common scams than Mr S, to have 
realised this was a scam. As the financial professional in this situation, I consider it likely 
that, if it had explained its concerns to Mr S, this would have broken the spell. This is 
supported by the fact Mr S realised the scam himself once away from the influence and 
sense of urgency created by the fraudsters during the call.  
Overall, if Revolut had responded appropriately to the risk it identified, I think it would likely 
have revealed the scam and prevented the loss. As mentioned above, it did manage to 
recover one payment, but Mr S is still £2,895 out of pocket. So I think Revolut should refund 
this amount, as well as paying interest for the loss of use of the funds. 
Should Mr S hold some responsibility for his loss? 
Ive considered whether Mr S should hold some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. Im conscious he received the call at a time when he did genuinely 
owe money to HMRC, making the payment demand and threat of court action seem more 
plausible. The scammers employed tactics, such as the threat of arrest, to create a sense of 
pressure and urgency  to make it more difficult for him to identify and reflect on any 
potential warning signs. And I dont think Revoluts warning was enough to put him on notice 
of these either  bearing in mind that he was a layperson, whereas Revolut ought to have 
been familiar with this type of scam. The warning contained nothing specific about the scam 
or why the payment was viewed as suspicious. In all the circumstances, I dont think there 
was contributory negligence here. Mr S was simply a victim of a sophisticated scam. He 
didnt foresee the risk and wasnt partly to blame for what happened. 
 
Distress and inconvenience
As well as the financial loss Revolut failed to prevent, I think its handling of his fraud claim 
caused him avoidable distress and inconvenience. Im mindful it was the fraudsters, rather 
than Revolut, who put Mr S in this difficult and upsetting position in the first place. That said, 
Ive found that Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from going ahead  which 
would have reduced the stress and financial pressure on Mr S. I can also see it was difficult 
and upsetting for him to engage with Revolut during the claim. He had to chase up to get a 
clear response on whether it would refund him. In the circumstances, I consider it fair and 
reasonable that Revolut should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
refund Mr S the remaining £2,895 he lost as part of the scam;
pay 8% simple interest from the date the payments left the account to the date of 
settlement; and 
pay £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Rachel LoughlinOmbudsman