DRN-2711989
The complaint
Mr G is represented. He says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for his unsuitable 
investment, in April 2017, in UK Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the 
bonds). CM disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met Mr G, that he was never 
introduced to him, that he never communicated with him in any way and that CM did not 
advise his investment in the bonds. For these reasons, CM also says this service does not 
have jurisdiction to address the complaint.
What happened
Mr G and his representative have shared some documentation to support the complaint.
One copy of Mr Gs application for the bonds includes his application details, his signature 
(dated 4 April 2017) and an empty section for his advisers details. Another copy of the 
application appears to be the same form with the same contents, but in the section for his 
advisers details, and in a different handwriting, CMs principals name is given. CMs details 
(including its FCA number) as the Authorised Adviser and its principals signature (also 
dated 4 April 2017) also feature in this version. CMs principal says he completed this 
section under the misunderstanding that he was verifying Mr Gs identity, not to affirm that 
he had advised him.
Mr Gs evidence  as presented between him and his representative  about his 
circumstances at the time of the investment, and about the circumstances leading to the 
investment, is mainly as follows:
He was in his 50s and married without dependents; he was self-employed and his 
incomings were no more than £40,000 per year; he had no previous experience of an 
investment similar to the bonds and only had limited/basic experience of buying a 
small amount of shares in mainstream/blue chip stocks; the invested capital had 
been set aside for a planned/future personal purpose and his aim was to use it for 
the bonds in the interim.
He had a low to medium risk profile and was prepared for some risks in the 
investment, but he did not want to be exposed to high risks; and he considered the 
bonds because he was told he could earn a 10% return and safely recover his full 
capital after the bonds 12 months term.
He was introduced to UKPDS and the bonds by a third-party introducer; he also 
relied on CMs confirmation of suitability (in the advisers undertaking it gave in his 
application form) as assurance that the investment was good for him and that he 
should proceed with it. 
Mr Gs representative clarified his claim further by saying he did not meet CMs principal and 
did not engage directly with him (CMs principal); that his complaint does not rest only on an 
allegation about regulated advice; that, in the main, the complaint is about him being misled 
into the investment; and that the key argument in this respect is that the advisers 
undertaking given by CM in the bond application was an untruth that breached its regulatory 
obligations and misled Mr G, because suitability of the bonds had not been properly 
assessed. 
In response to a query from one of our adjudicators, about remuneration for CM, Mr Gs 
representative added that he does not recall making any payment to CM, but the 
representative also argued that it is inconceivable that the undertaking CM gave in the 
course of its financial advisory business was done for nothing.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
First, she considered matters related to our jurisdiction  whether (or not) Mr G was CMs 
customer (and therefore an eligible complainant) and whether (or not) he was advised by 
CM. She referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance 
Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice. She considered that the contents of CMs 
advisers undertaking strongly suggest that it was the adviser for the investment, regardless 
of whether what it gave was or was not regulated/authorised advice, and that its undertaking 
about of the bonds suitability influenced Mr Gs decision to invest in them.
In terms of suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Mr G because 
they were particularly high-risk investments, they were mini bonds issued by companies too 
small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods, being companies that 
also had a higher risk of failure. The investigator said the bonds required a sophisticated 
investor and an investor prepared to take high risks, neither of which was Mr G.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint. He added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that CM was not authorised to give investment advice at the time of   
Mr Gs investment.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Regulated Activity
In the context of investments and in terms of the subject matters we can address in a 
complaint, the regulator defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
its Handbook. It does so as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001, and 
also in the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. 
Investment advice is therefore a regulated activity.
Investment advice is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The PERG guidance that the investigator referred to says as follows:
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
There was no direct engagement between Mr G and CM, but there is evidence of the 
advisers undertaking CM gave in his application for the bonds.
A key message in the guidance within PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value 
judgement, about the merits of an investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, 
which influenced the latters investment decision.
CMs signed advisers undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking from CM presented, to Mr G, its 
value judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for him. It says as much, and it 
does so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule that defines suitability 
(that is, COBS 9). As noted earlier, CM does not appear to have given the undertaking in the 
first version of Mr Gs application form. It appears that his completed form was forwarded to 
CM and it then gave its signed and dated undertaking, and that either the original or a copy 
was returned to Mr G  hence his ability to share a copy with us four years after the 
investment. 
There is therefore a basis for his assertion that the undertaking induced his investment. It 
would have been reasonable for him to believe the investment was suitable upon receipt of 
the form with CMs clear and express signed undertaking saying that it was. As the guidance 
above says, regulated advice includes any communication with the customer. I consider 
that CMs provision of the undertaking to Mr G amounted to a communication of the 
undertaking  and of the message of suitability within it  to him. 
Overall, I accept Mr G s evidence that the undertaking influenced his decision to proceed 
with the investment. This meets the above guidances reference to regulated advice 
influencing the customers investment (or buy or sell) decision. Confirmation of independent 
financial advice was a pre-requisite to investing in the bonds, hence the need for the 
authorised adviser undertaking within the application form. CM gave that undertaking and 
that made Mr G s investment possible. I agree with the investigators enquiry into 
remuneration. I address this further below, in the context of Mr Gs eligibility as a 
complainant.
The contents of CMs undertaking make it implausible that CMs principal misunderstood its 
purpose. He says he never met or engaged with Mr G, so it begs the question why he would 
verify his identity  the identity of someone he says he never knew or met or spoke to  as 
he says he believed he was doing. Furthermore, and importantly, nothing in the above 
undertaking relates to verifying Mr Gs identity. 
For the reasons given above, I consider that CM undertook responsibility for advising Mr G s 
investment in the bonds and for conveying the message to him that they were suitable for 
him. If CM did not give such advice directly to him, its undertaking confirms that it assessed 
suitability of the bonds and the same undertaking communicated the outcome of its 
assessment to him. If CM says it conducted no such assessment then, as Mr Gs 
representative has argued, the implications that arise are that CMs undertaking was false, 
that such false undertaking was relied upon by Mr G, and that CM holds responsibility for 
misleading his investment in the bond  and it did so by assuring him it had assessed 
suitability when it had not.
CMs references to absent advice documentation and to lacking authority to advise on 
investments in 2017 does not alter the above conclusions. I repeat, there is documentation, 
in the form of its advisers undertaking, that shows CM assessed suitability of the bonds for 
Mr G and considered them suitable for him. If that was done at a time when CM did not have 
the regulators authority to give investment advice, then that is a matter between it and the 
regulator. The lack of such authority does not negate evidence that, as a matter of fact, CM 
stood as adviser for Mr G s investment and said it had assessed the investment to be 
suitable for him.
Eligible Complainant
A complainant must be eligible to complain. Otherwise this service cannot consider the 
relevant complaint. The DISP rules for an eligible complainant include the following:An eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee 
of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R] 
An eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules. [my emphasis] [DISP 2.7.6 R]
consumer
This is the only category under DISP 2.7.3 R to consider for Mr G  given that he is not a 
micro enterprise, a charity or a trustee of a trust. Guidance from the rules says a consumer 
is any natural person acting for purposes outside his [or her] trade, business or profession. 
Mr G acted as an individual in this case. I have not seen evidence to suggest that he was/is 
a professional in investments or that he conducted such a business or trade. His role in the 
complaint appears to have been for purposes outside his trade, business or profession, so 
he is a consumer.
relationship
The rules cover a number of relationships. In terms of investments, the relationship between 
a customer and a business is one. Guidance from the rules says the word customer should 
be given its natural meaning  that is, a person who buys goods and/or services from a 
business. 
In Mr Gs case the service rendered to him by CM is confirmed in the undertaking that CM 
gave in his bond application form. That undertaking was required for the application and it 
served the purpose of assuring Mr G that the investment had been assessed suitable for 
him. It therefore stands as evidence of the provision of service from CM to Mr G.
There is no evidence of payment to CM  payment being what youd expect where goods or 
services are bought from a business. Nevertheless, I do not consider that this alone 
automatically means he was not a customer. It has not been possible to obtain relevant 
evidence directly from UKPDS or from the introducer. It is a possibility that remuneration to 
CM came from either of these parties. Furthermore, I consider it probable that such 
remuneration to CM would have existed indirectly, and potentially from either of these 
sources, because I agree with Mr Gs representatives argument, as mentioned above. 
CM was a commercial going concern in the business of providing its services in order to 
make money. This is not a criticism, given that all regulated firms share the same basic 
characteristic. I have not seen evidence that its undertaking in Mr Gs case was given in the 
spirit of benevolence. The implications that follow are that CM did so in the course of its 
business and would have received a commercial reward in return  which further supports 
the conclusion that Mr G was its customer. This service has received a number of 
complaints about CM about the same undertaking, given to a number of different investors in 
the UKPDS bonds. I consider it implausible that it would have given all those undertakings  
to unknown people, as its principal has maintained  without receiving a commercial reward.
For all the above reasons, I consider that Mr G was a consumer, was CMs customer and is 
an eligible complainant.
Merit 
Suitability of Mr Gs investment
The bonds had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months) and they were used 
by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to third-party firms for the business 
of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided funds to be used in paying 
the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Mr Gs 
investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term for the bonds and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced 
managers.
I have not seen evidence that Mr G was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for him to understand the risks involved in the bonds. His evidence is that 
he had a low to medium risk profile and that he made the investment in the bonds with the 
expectation that they guaranteed his receipt of the associated 10% coupon and that they 
guaranteed safe recovery of his capital upon expiry. In the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, I consider that what Mr G has said in this respect is sincere. This does not describe 
an investor seeking a high-risk and sophisticated investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Mr G; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mr G as close as I can to the position he would probably 
now be in if he had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the view 
that he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given available 
information, as summarised above, of his profile at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of his bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay him interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr Gs 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsMaturedfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on the 
compensation 
amount from the 
end date to the 
date of settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mr G agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Mr G that he repay to CM any amount 
he may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D had a low to medium risk profile for his investment in the bonds. He appears to 
have been prepared to take some risks in the investment. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Gs profile was somewhere in between these benchmarks, in the 
sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment 
objective. The 50/50 combination above would reasonably put him into that position 
and it broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from an investment suited to his profile.  
The interest payment is for Mr G being deprived use of the compensation amount 
from the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I order Craig Mitchell to pay him 
compensation as set out above. Craig Mitchell must also provide him with a calculation of 
the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman