DRN-1675893
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline his claim under his 
personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C held a personal accident insurance policy with Covea. The policy would pay benefit in 
the event that Mr C suffered an accidental injury which resulted in a listed permanent 
disability, hospitalisation or death.
In August 2019, Mr C made a claim under the policy. He said that as a result of lifting a 
heavy tray in September 2017, he had suffered permanent disability to his shoulders, arms, 
legs and feet which had caused him to stop working. He said he expected shortly be 
hospitalised because of this.
Covea obtained information from Mr Cs GP. Having reviewed this information, it declined 
the claim. It said that his medical issues did not appear to stem from an accident, as required 
under the terms of the policy. It further said that he hadnt yet been shown to have suffered a 
permanent disability such as would qualify for benefit.
Mr C complained to Covea but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr C therefore referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, Mr C 
hadnt shown that he had a valid claim under the policy and Covea had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that he had suffered an 
accident in September 2017 and it was this which had caused his subsequent medical 
issues. He explained that the pain from which he now suffered made it difficult for him to find 
employment and he considered the policy should pay him benefit.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the policy to pay benefit, Mr C needs to show he has suffered an accident. The policy 
describes this as:
a sudden and unforeseen event which happens by chance after the start date and which 
results in bodily injury.
The policy describes a bodily injury as:
injury to your body (excluding sickness, disease or any naturally occurring condition or 
degenerative process) resulting from external, violent and visible means. 
Mr C suffers from pain in his limbs and joints which has become progressively worse. This 
pain now makes it very difficult for him to work. He considers that the origin of his difficulties 
was an accident he had when lifting a heavy tray in September 2017.
The medical evidence, however, doesnt support this. There is a reference in his GP notes in 
October 2017 that Mr C felt pain in his right arm and elbow after lifting boxes at work but his 
GP thought this was likely to be tennis elbow brought on by repetitive strain. There is nothing 
more in the medical records to indicate that his problems resulted from an accident. Indeed, 
there are references in the medical reports where Mr Cs treating physicians specifically 
state that his condition is not as a result of trauma. I therefore conclude that Mr C hasnt 
suffered from an accident. Instead, it seems his ailments fall into the category of disease or 
any naturally occurring condition or degenerative process which are excluded under the 
policy. I therefore consider he doesnt qualify for the policys benefit, including the 
hospitalisation benefit.
Even if I thought Mr C had suffered an accident, he would still need to show that this had 
resulted in one of the permanent disabilities listed in the policy. These include, for example, 
the total and permanent loss of use of a limb. I dont think Mr C has shown he has met this 
part of the requirement either, not least because he hasnt shown that any disability from 
which he is currently suffering is necessarily permanent. However, this is academic given 
that I dont believe he has shown that his current medical issues stem from an accident.
I sympathise with Mr C that he clearly is suffering from pain in various limbs and joints, and 
this is hampering his ability to work. However, this policy is designed to cater only for the 
consequences of an accident. This doesnt mean the policy was useless; I have no reason to 
believe it wouldnt have paid out if Mr C had been hospitalised and/or permanently disabled 
as a result of an accidental bodily injury. But unfortunately for Mr C, it wont provide cover for 
his current situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman