DRN-3839924
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying
Current Account Plus (CAP) packaged account in November 2010 and also a free-paying 
Tech Pack, that was added to his account in May 2016.
Mr A says that the packaged account was mis-sold because he was told he had to have it 
and that he was not made aware that he could have a fee-free account. Mr A says that the 
Tech Pack was added to his account without his consent.
What happened
Barclays says that our service is unable to consider Mr As complaint about the sale of the 
CAP as it says he complained too late about it, and it didnt think that the Tech Pack had 
been mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Tech Pack had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr A disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Ive already issued a decision explaining why our service is unable to consider Mr As 
complaint about the sale of his CAP. This decision will therefore only address whether the 
Tech Pack was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint about the sale of Mr As Tech Pack. And 
having considered everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr A has complained that the Tech Pack was mis-sold because it was added to his account 
without his consent.
To explain, the Tech Pack was not actually sold to Mr A. Instead, Barclays has explained 
that it had decided to withdraw the CAP and so wrote to all account holders to explain that 
their accounts would be changed to a fee-free account. However, to ensure existing account 
holders were able to continue to receive some similar levels of insurance cover i.e. mobile 
phone insurance, Barclays added a Tech Pack to the affected accounts. Barclays gave all 
account holders the option to opt out of adding the Tech Pack to their account, should they 
no longer want or need such insurance cover.
Barclays was able to make such a change essentially because it was largely replacing the 
existing insurance policy (mobile phone insurance) that Mr A was already paying for under 
the CAP. However, when making such a change to packaged account, Barclays was 
required to clearly explain what changes were taking place and to also give all of the 
affected account holders enough notice of the changes, so that they could consider their 
options.
Barclays has provided copies of the migration letters it says it sent to Mr A. The first letter 
was dated 26 February 2016. This explained that Mr As account would be changed to a fee-
free account with a Tech Pack added, and it also explained the cost of the Tech Pack would 
be £9.50 i.e. increased from £6.50 per month that hed previously been paying for the CAP. 
It also explained that, if Mr A chose to opt out of adding the Tech Pack to his account, his 
overdraft limit would remain unchanged - but no part of it would be free to use. 
Barclays has provided another letter that it says it sent to Mr A on 13 May 2016. This 
confirmed that Mr As account had changed to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added.
Having looked through these letters, I think they made it reasonably clear what changes 
were occurring on Mr As account and also what options were available to him, if he didnt 
need the Tech Pack. 
Both of these letters look to be correctly addressed. So I think that they were more likely 
than not received by Mr A - although given how long ago they were sent, I can understand if 
Mr A now does not recall receiving them. 
But overall, Im satisfied that Barclays did what it needed to do to inform Mr A of the changes 
that were made to his account and that he was given a reasonable amount of time to 
consider his options. I do appreciate that Mr A and his family were experiencing some very 
difficult circumstances at the time that the letters were sent out. But as Barclays does not 
appear to have been aware of these circumstances at the time, I cant reasonably say that it 
shouldve done anything differently.
As such, in the circumstances, Im unable to say that Barclays should refund the Tech Pack 
fees that Mr A paid since May 2016.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman