DRN-3818768
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed her accounts.
Background
In August 2022, Halifax took the decision to close Miss Cs accounts and although it 
provided her with two months notice before doing so it placed a block on the accounts for 
this period. Miss C complained however Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss C 
remained dissatisfied, Miss C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards     
Miss C and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss C, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering accounts to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss C is unhappy 
that Halifax closed her accounts. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer with 
an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
So Im satisfied that Halifax had sufficient grounds to close Miss Cs accounts and as such 
its decision to do so wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Halifaxs decision will 
have been very disappointing to Miss C. And I can appreciate why the closure of her 
accounts will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to 
be able to tell Halifax it should have continued offering Miss C accounts in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to bank with her. 
Equally, while Miss C is unhappy that the block placed on her account meant that it was 
effectively closed without notice, Ive reviewed Halifaxs actions and Im satisfied that it acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Halifax was entitled to close her accounts in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman