DRN-4506890
The complaint
Mr B says East Kilbride Credit Union Limited (EKCU) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B took out a top-up loan for £9,000 over 60 months on 21 March 2019. This increased 
the loan repayments he was already making to EKCU by £55 to £455 with a final payment of 
£448.68 (£78 of his existing £400 repayment was to an EKCU savings account). It increased 
the total loan value to £20,388.47. Mr B was an active serving director of EKCU at the time 
he applied.
Mr B says the increased borrowing caused his debts to spiral, he was then on a reduced 
salary due to illness and could not make his repayments. He says EKCU then started legal 
proceedings to recover the debt, serving an Earnings Arrestment on his salary and an 
Inhibition Order on his property. This has caused immense stress. He had made EKCU 
aware in 2019 that he was struggling with his mental health. He asks for the loan to be 
written off if it is found to have been irresponsibly lent, and if not for a correct settlement 
figure to be provided. 
Mr B is also unhappy with the EKCUs brief final response to his detailed complaint and how 
it ignored his vulnerabilities when he flagged them. For this he seeks additional 
compensation. 
EKCU says Mr B confirmed the additional £55 would be affordable. When he told it about his 
repayment problems it was sympathetic and asked for updated income and expenditure 
information to allow it to reschedule the debt to reduce Mr Bs repayments.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said EKCUs checks were not 
proportionate but had it done better checks it could reasonably have made the same lending 
decision and so it was fair. He noted EKCUs s proposal to help Mr B reduce payments, 
even by covering interest for a period, was reasonable. He explained this service wouldnt 
comment on the subsequent legal proceedings, or related action(s) - including legal 
correspondence, as the courts are a higher authority.
Mr B was unhappy with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, he had not taken out the loan to in part repay a credit card, it was solely for a tax 
bill so it was not reducing debt elsewhere; his bank statements from the months prior to 
application generally show spend in excess of income proving he could not afford the extra 
£55; EKCU were negligent throughout the sales process; and EKCU had a duty of care to 
him when he fell into financial difficulties, and was suffering with poor mental health, that it 
did not meet. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of the comments and questions Mr B sent to both EKCU and this service 
that I know he wants answers to. However, and I mean no discourtesy by this, in keeping 
with our role as an informal dispute resolution service - and as our rules allow - I will focus 
here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Mr Bs complaint.
Before providing Mr B with the loan, EKCU needed to make sure that it was affordable for Mr 
B. Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total cost of the credit, and what it knows about the borrower at the point of application. 
EKCU has explained the checks it undertook before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B about his 
income and expenditure and from his declarations it calculated he would have monthly 
disposable income of £824 if it approved this top up loan. It checked the repayment history 
on his existing loan - it had been well-managed. And that loan had been for debt 
consolidation so it says it had no reason to believe he had debts elsewhere. Apart from the 
one credit card with a £6,600 balance that he had told it he was repaying in part with this 
loan (£4,500) with the remaining £4,500 for a tax bill. It carried out a limited credit check that 
showed Mr B had no public records registered against him and no other recent applications 
for credit. 
I am not satisfied these checks were proportionate. Given Mr Bs existing loan balance and 
the fact he had taken out five loans in four years, I think it needed to verify his incomings and 
outgoings and make sure it understood his existing credit commitments. Mr B has supplied 
his bank statements from the months prior to his application to allow me to understand what 
better checks would most likely have shown EKCU.
His income was broadly as declared (£2,101 versus £2,200) and his fixed expenditure 
(utilities bills, phone bill, credit card and loan repayments, gym membership, TV licence, 
insurances and so on) was around £950 a month. From his credit file I can see there also 
seems to have been a mortgage payment of £279. So I agree with the investigator that Mr B 
appeared to have sufficient disposable income to cover his other living costs and this loan. 
His account was always in credit and there were none of the typical signs of financial 
difficulties such as the use of payday loans, returned direct debit payments or the reliance on 
an overdraft facility. Mr B argues his monthly spend was much higher than we have said, but 
his figures are for his total spend and we would not expect a lender to consider discretionary 
spend in its affordability assessment. And as the investigator said, as this loan was in part to 
reduce Mr Bs credit card balance that outgoing would also decrease. Mr B challenged this 
but the email he sent EKCU on 19 March 2021 confirmed This will allow me to pay the tax 
bill as well as pay approximately £4,500 off the Barclaycard balance. 
In the round, I think that had EKCU carried out better checks it could fairly have made the 
same lending decision. 
Mr B is also unhappy with the support EKCU offered when he had problems keeping up with 
his repayments, largely it seems due to being on a reduced salary due to ill health. The 
parties have conflicting views about what happened. I can see Mr B feels he was largely 
ignored with no consideration given to his mental health. EKCU says it always responded 
sympathetically, and that it offered to meet Mr B to discuss ways to reduce his repayments 
but he did not supply all the information it requested. Mr B says he did, but that EKCUs proposal to temporarily cover the interest only had the 
credit unions interests at heart, not his. I accept that is how he felt, but the lender was not 
obliged to remove interest or amend the loan term as he wanted, rather it had to show 
forbearance. And it has evidenced it did that. I note it also offered Mr B a reduced settlement 
in its final response letter. 
As the recovery of the debt is now subject to court proceedings this service cannot comment 
further on that, as the investigator explained. Mr B also asked us to obtain an accurate 
settlement figure but for the same reason we cannot get involved with this and he would 
need to contact the parties involved in the legal proceedings.
Finally, Mr B raised his dissatisfaction with how EKCU responded to his complaint, saying 
the response was very brief and did not address all the points he raised. But this is not 
something I can look at. There is a difference between a complaint about a financial service 
and a complaint about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Mr 
Bs concerns about how EKCU responded to his complaint is not a complaint about its 
provision of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint handling. 
And under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.
In summary, I am not instructing EKCU to take any action. I am sorry Mr B went on to suffer 
financial difficulties and that this has impacted his mental health but for the reasons set out 
above I do not agree that this was the fault of EKCU. I hope he now has the support he 
needs.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman