DRN-3999489
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) declined a claim for
damage to his car, following an accident, and avoided (treated it as though it never existed)
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged when it was hit by a bus. He initially made a claim through the third
partys insurer. The insurer didnt agree to the costs Mr K was claiming. As a result, he
contacted Skyfire and it agreed to handle the claim.
During its claim investigation Skyfire identified that Mr Ks car was modified. It says he didnt
disclose this information during his online application despite being asked. Skyfire says that
had it known about the modifications it wouldnt have offered cover. It says its underwriting
criteria doesnt allow for the modifications present on Mr Ks car. As a result, it avoided his
policy back to its inception and returned his premiums.
Mr K didnt think this was fair. He says he didnt know the car had been modified and asked
our service to consider the matter. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She acknowledged
Skyfires expert report that showed some modifications had been made to the car. But she
didnt think it was clear that Mr K was aware that modifications had been made.
Our investigator says she didnt think Mr K had misrepresented the information he provided
to Skyfire when taking out his policy. And said it should reinstate his policy, reconsider his
claim, remove any record of the avoided policy, and pay £250 compensation.
Skyfire disagreed with this outcome. It says Mr K has a passion for modified cars
demonstrated by a photo of a modified car he had on a social media site. It also points out
that Mr K bought his car from an online auction house. Skyfire says this platform is used by
people with a considerable knowledge of cars. It refers to Mr Ks comments when he made
his claim that hed been around cars all his life. Skyfire also highlights its engineers
comments that the modifications were easily visible.
Because it disagreed with our investigators view, Skyfire asked for an ombudsman to
consider this complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire says Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
told it there were no modifications on his car. The business says it thinks this was a careless
misrepresentation on Mr Ks behalf. And under CIDRA it is able to cancel the policy and
avoid it from inception.
Mr K applied for his policy online. Skyfire has supplied a screenshot of the question he was
asked relating to modifications on his car. This asks, Has the car been modified in any
way? with a yes/no response. A help box is shown that provides the following information:
What does this mean? If you or a previous owner has made a change from the
manufacturers original specification, such as alloy wheels, air conditioning, bodywork,
exhaust system, suspension or tinted windows, add it here.
If youre unsure if your cars been modified, check its previous history to find out.
Ive seen a report completed by Skyfires in-house engineer that identifies Mr Ks car has a
non-standard aftermarket exhaust system, mirror covers, and drilled brake discs. I note
Skyfire had previously identified the rear lights as a modification. However, its engineer
subsequently confirmed the rear lights are an optional extra and therefore not a modification
under the policy terms.
Mr K says he doesnt have specialist knowledge and wasnt aware the components Skyfire
highlights were modifications.
I dont think there can be any dispute that the components highlighted by Skyfire are
modifications to the manufacturers original specifications. Ive thought about whether Mr K
shouldve known this.
Ive looked at the photos showing the modified parts of Mr Ks car and Ive thought about
whether a reasonable consumer wouldve known these components were modifications. But
Im not persuaded that a reasonable consumer would know this.
Many different options are available for Mr Ks model of car. I can see that his car is a sport
model and the modifications reported appear to be designed to further enhance this style.
But based on what Ive seen I dont think the average person would know that the car had
modifications to it.
Skyfire points to Mr Ks interest in cars and that he bought the car from an online auction
platform. I acknowledge its comments, but Mr K isnt a specialist in this area unlike its motor
engineer. He may have an interest in cars, but I dont think this means the modificationsshown would necessarily stand out to him. Its also of relevance that Skyfire initially thought
the rear lights were a modification when they werent. The implication being its not that
obvious what is and isnt a modification.
Ive looked at the online auction advertisement to see if there was any information indicating
the car had been modified. There isnt.
Our investigator highlighted the contact Mr K made with the manufacturer. It was only after
doing this that he says he became aware the rear lights on his car were optional extras. Our
investigator says this information is readily available online. She thought this showed Mr K
didnt have the level of knowledge that Skyfire suggests. I think this is a fair point.
Ive also thought about Skyfires comments about Mr Ks social media account and what he
said about being around cars all his life. I acknowledge this shows that Mr K has an interest
in cars. But I dont think this is sufficient to say that Mr K, under the CIDRA test of a
reasonable consumer, shouldve known his car had been modified in the way Skyfires
engineer has since highlighted.
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that Mr K failed to take reasonable care with
the information he gave in his policy application. This means I dont think he made a
qualifying misrepresentation under the CIDRA rules. So, I dont think it was fair for Skyfire to
decline Mr Ks claim and avoid his policy for the reason it gave.
Mr K explains how this matter has caused him a great deal of stress and some sleepless
nights. He also says he has incurred costs as a result of the need to arrange alternative
transport. Mr K has sent a letter from a company that provides a car and courier service. It
says he has a travel account with it, which he has used since 25 May 2022, with an
outstanding balance of £7,122.45.
Ive read the information Mr K has provided. But this provides little detail show what the
service provided was, or that its reasonable for Skyfire to cover these costs. I think Mr K
should be compensated for the loss of use of his vehicle. In these circumstances I think its
fair that Skyfire pays Mr K £10 per day for the period he has been without a car. This is the
approach our service takes in similar circumstances.
Ive also thought about the distress Mr K experienced because of Skyfires decision to
decline his claim and avoid his policy. He describes how this has been very stressful
resulting in sleepless nights. In these circumstances, given the level of financial cost
involved, I think Skyfire should pay him £250 compensation for the distress it caused.
In summary, I dont think Skyfire treated Mr K fairly in declining his claim and avoiding his
policy for the reason it gave. It should reconsider his claim based on the remaining policy
terms. Skyfire should ensure there is no record of the avoided policy and pay £10 per day
from the date of the claim up until this is settled. It should also pay £250 compensation for
the distress it caused Mr K.
Our investigator thought Skyfire should reinstate Mr Ks policy. However, the policy year in
question has since elapsed. Because of this I wont be including this requirement.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
should:
reconsider Mr Ks claim based on the remaining policy terms;
ensure there is no record of the avoidance;
pay £10 per day from the date of the claim until the claim is settled; andpay £250 compensation for the distress caused to Mr K.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Skyfire responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. It went on to say it will be 
conducting a full investigation into the claim before making any settlement. 
Mr K responded to say he is content with my findings. Although he says its only fair for 
Skyfire to pay the reasonable transport costs he incurred. Mr K has provided a letter from the 
car and courier service he used. This shows the return trip he made every day between the 
same two destinations for 170 consecutive days costing just under £42 per day.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Skyfires comments that it will be investigating the claim prior to making any 
settlement. This doesnt impact on my decision. In my provisional decision I said Skyfire 
should reconsider Mr Ks claim based on the remaining policy terms. So, Skyfires comments 
dont warrant a change to my findings. 
Ive read the letter Mr K provided from the car and courier company he used, in conjunction 
with the travel cost information he supplied previously. I understand he was without his car, 
as it had been damaged, so needed to find alternative transport. Ive thought about whether 
the travel costs Mr K is claiming, for the courier service he used, are reasonable. I note the 
total cost for these services amount to £7,122.45. 
We expect customers to take appropriate mitigating action to avoid or prevent losses. When 
considering Mr Ks claim Ive thought about whether the mitigating action he took in 
response to the loss of use of his car was reasonable. 
Mr K used a courier service for a long period at a cost of over £7,000. Given the significant 
cost of this service, I think he could reasonably have bought a temporary vehicle whilst 
consideration of this matter was ongoing. I think this will have been significantly cheaper 
than using the courier service. 
The journey Mr K took each day was to the same city centre destination and back. I can see 
that there are good public transport links in place that Mr K couldve used as an alternative. I 
understand his reasoning for using the courier service. But I think a loss of use payment is 
fair and that this should be set at £10 per day, which is what our service considers 
reasonable in these circumstances.
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that I should change my provision decision, 
so this will now become my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited should:
reconsider Mr Ks claim based on the remaining policy terms;
ensure there is no record of the avoidance;
pay £10 per day from the date of the claim until the claim is settled; andpay £250 compensation for the distress caused to Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman