DRN-3299205
The complaint
Mrs G says the advice given and the arrangements made by City Capital Analysis Limited 
(CCAL) to transfer benefits from her two occupational pension schemes (OPS) into a Self- 
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was unsuitable.
CCAL was an appointed representative of Best Practice IFA Group Limited (BP) at the time 
of the events complained about. As the principal firm, BP has responsibility for the acts and 
omissions of its agents. To keep matters simple, Ill refer to BP throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs G sought advice from BP about her pension arrangements in February 2017. 
Information was gathered about her circumstances, objectives and matters such as her 
attitude to risk.
BP issued a Proposal for Pension Planning (suitability report) dated 20 March 2017. It 
identified Mrs Gs objectives in the following terms:
-You wish to be able to partially retire at age 55. This may involve working for 6 
months per year.
-You plan to retire fully at age 60, with the slight possibility of continuing some 
consulting work post 60, should your health remain robust.
-From the age of 55, you would like to access some of your pension schemes 
(income/capital) to fund a lifestyle change by living overseas
-In accessing pension benefits (early) you wish to have as much flexible control of 
access as is possible under pension freedoms.
-You wish to ensure on death, that you can pass as much pension asset as possible 
on to [your husband and child]. 
-You also wish for remaining pension benefits to be inter-generational and capable 
of passing from [your husband to your child] and on to his children in turn. 
-You wish to ensure that liability to inheritance tax is mitigated.
Mrs G was a member of two OPS. She had deferred benefits accrued over 15 years of 
service with two employers between 1992 and 2010. She also had a SIPP with 
Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) worth around £100,000. And shed recently joined another 
OPS having taken on a role with a new employer in 2016.
The transfer value of her deferred OPS benefits was around £535,800. BP recommended 
she should transfer this into a SIPP and invest in funds with a balanced risk exposure. Mrs 
G accepted the recommendation and the monies were transferred in May 2017. Ive not 
seen any transaction details, but presumably BPs fees were deducted from the funds 
transferred.
In July 2020 Mrs G raised a complaint about what had happened in 2017. She said BP 
knew her OPS benefits were her main pension provision and important to her family. She 
didnt believe the advice shed received to transfer out of the schemes had been 
appropriate.
Mrs G says shed been dealing with mental health issues at the time of the advice and 
this had affected her decision making. She also thought BP had manipulated the risk 
assessment it conducted to facilitate the transfer of her funds.
BP refuted Mrs Gs complaint. It said it was very rare for the firm to recommend the 
transfer of benefits from an OPS because of the guarantees and protections they afford. 
But given Mrs Gs specific circumstances and her objectives it said the advice was 
suitable.
BP noted that there had been a discussion of Mrs Gs health situation, and this had been a 
key driver for moving ahead with the transfer. It said she hadnt disclosed any mental 
health issues, nor did the adviser pick up on any causes for concern. In respect of the risk 
assessment, it said it not only took into account her appetite for risk, but also her capacity 
for loss  hence it reduced the risk exposure recommendation.
The Investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. He considered that while her health situation 
was a significant consideration, a transfer at that time wasnt necessary to meet her 
objectives. He thought BP should perform a redress calculation comparing the value of her 
comparable SIPP funds as they stood, with appropriate adjustments, with the value of the 
OPS benefits shed foregone.
BP disagreed with the Investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
[Mrs G] wanted to achieve several objectives and when considered as a whole these 
could only be met by recommending the transfer, and also by completing the transfer then 
and not deferring until she was ready to retire and/or her health deteriorated again. In this 
regard we would also add that to maximise investment growth and performance it was far 
more appropriate to undertake the transfer aged 50 than defer, and in this regard we 
would repeat that the evidence clearly supports the fact that [Mrs G] was willing to accept 
the required level of risk and that she also had the propensity to accept that level of risk as 
well.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators recommendations, Mrs Gs case has 
been passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision in January. Both parties 
disagreed with elements of this. Ill touch on any key points they raised in this final decision. 
But I find no compelling reason to depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint, but not providing the extent of redress shed like. Ill 
explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Gs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by BP for Mrs G. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook contains 
eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must 
adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BP. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
At the time of the advice BP gave Mrs G, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, BP was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with 
the benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mrs G to be able 
to make an informed decision.
- Give Mrs G a copy of the comparison, drawing her attention to the factors that do 
and dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs G understood its comparison and 
how it contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, BP had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mrs G on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. 
For example, in January 2013 the regulator issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice 
to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages 
and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In 
particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to 
[SIPPs] that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated 
investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that 
is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP 
is not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
BP wasnt recommending Mrs G invest in unregulated funds. But the principle here holds 
true  it needed to consider the overall proposition. That is, the transfer and the expected 
underlying investments she would hold.
Did BP adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it when advising Mrs G?
There are several documents relating to BPs transaction with Mrs G that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-find and suitability report. More recently, Mrs G has 
shared some email exchanges she had with the adviser. Ive also thought carefully about the 
testimony of both parties.
This is a finely balanced case. I note the regulatory position set a high bar, which meant BP 
must be able to clearly demonstrate, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer was in 
Mrs Gs best interests. Im not satisfied BP has managed to do this in the circumstances of 
this case.
Firstly, I want to consider a matter which has given rise to some debate between the 
parties. When Mrs G approached BP with her complaint, one of the main points she raised 
was as follows:
Mental health capacity - at the time of transfer I was receiving therapy from a psychologist 
post discharge from the priory hospital for clinical depression - subsequently and [following] 
another inpatient stay this has been formalised as [a specific disorder resulting in a range of 
impacts] - during the period of your advice I believe I was in a manic episode and therefore 
unable to make rational decisions - I do not recall you enquiring about my mental health at 
the time.
BP has recently told us:
There is no tangible evidence that [Mrs G] was suffering from [a mental health disorder] at 
the time and suspect that this has been cited after reference to the aforementioned FCA transfer advice checker  and no doubt to create a further air of vulnerability and to add 
weight to her what is in our view a dubious claim. In this regard we are sorry to add that we 
do therefore challenge the fair and reasonableness of this outcome and whether or not it 
really does pass the test of considering each case on its individual merits.
My role isnt to take sides, but to consider from contemporaneous evidence, as well as 
more recent testimony, whats most likely to have happened.
I can see there was a full discussion between Mrs G and BP about her health when the 
fact- find took place in February 2017. She gave comprehensive details of her serious 
health conditions. But she chose not to disclose anything about her mental health situation. 
I recognise she may not have wanted or felt able to do so. Indeed, from what shes said a 
diagnosis and understanding of her disorder happened after the events complained about.
BP says Mrs G didnt present in a way which wouldve given it any cause for concern or 
enquiry in terms of her mental health. For example, shed researched the market for a 
suitable firm. It said she came across as confident and clear in her objectives. She didnt 
display the behaviour of someone acting irrationally or unable to make informed decisions. 
It said this was all consistent with her holding a senior management role.
On balance, I remain of the view that BP couldnt have discerned Mrs Gs mental health 
issues without her disclosure. There was an opportunity for her to share this confidential 
information, as shed done in respect of other sensitive health matters.
Further, I can see that Mrs G signed a declaration on 2 February 2017 which included the 
following acknowledgement:
The information requested is required to ensure that the financial advice offered is 
appropriate to your personal circumstances. Failure to provide some information may lead 
to inappropriate advice being given.
Given the gravity of the decisions being made in relation to her main pension provision and 
her personal circumstances, I think Mrs G wouldve appreciated the significance of this 
declaration.
Had Mrs G told BP about her mental health issues I think its more likely than not the 
approach it adopted to providing its service wouldve been different. For example, I note in 
its final response to her that it might have suggested she was supported by a family friend 
or relative.
However, my finding here doesnt mean I shouldnt look further into the transfer of Mrs Gs 
OPS benefits in 2017. This Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any 
complaint. The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says the FCA should 
make rules for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a consumer hasnt 
communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mrs G has expressed her complaint but about what the crux or 
substance of her concern is really about. The DISP rules required BP to look fairly at the 
'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and 
impartial. The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific 
circumstances of her complaint. I think BP has tried to do this in good faith.
This Service must also think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and look at the whole 
picture. Mrs G also raised concerns about the appropriateness of the advice she received, 
how the process had been conducted and its impact on her households prospects. And I dont think the Investigator wouldve been considering those concerns properly if he hadnt 
looked at the advice process in the round.
At the time of BPs advice in March 2017 Mrs G was 51 years old. She was married with one 
dependent child. She and her husband had a monthly household disposable income of 
around £2,500. She was a senior accounts manager earning a basic salary of around 
£60,000 a year.
Mrs and Mr G owned their home, it was worth around £320,000 with an outstanding 
repayment mortgage of around £220,000. No other liabilities were recorded. Aside from 
Mrs Gs pension provisions as previously outlined, she also had a stocks and shares ISA 
worth £30,000. Her husband also had pensions and savings, but these were not detailed. 
Its recorded Mrs Gs required income in retirement was likely to be in the range of £2,500-
£3,000.
BP says Mrs G wanted to achieve several objectives and when considered as a whole 
these could only be met by recommending the transfer, and also by completing the transfer 
in 2017 and not deferring until she was ready to retire and/or her health deteriorated again.
Mrs Gs stated objectives were to be able to partially retire at age 55 and fully retire at age 
60, with the possibility of continuing some consulting work should her health remain robust. 
From the age of 55, she wanted to access some of her pension benefits to fund a lifestyle 
change by living overseas.
In accessing her pension benefits early Mrs G was said to require as much flexible control 
of access as is possible under pension freedoms. She wanted to ensure on her death, she 
could pass as much pension asset as possible on to her husband and child. She wanted 
her pension benefits to be inter-generational. And she wanted to ensure that liability to 
inheritance tax was mitigated.
I find some weaknesses in BPs assertion that Mrs Gs objectives could only be met if she 
transferred her OPS benefits in 2017.
Id observe that just because a client has a strong idea about what they want to do with 
their pension benefits, that doesnt always mean its in their interest to pursue a course 
theyre set on. It was BPs role to have advised Mrs G about what was in her best interest 
for retirement planning.
Naturally, Mrs G wanted to ensure her family were provided for in the event of her passing 
 she wanted her pension benefits to pass to her husband, and then her child and then her 
childs children. But, of course, it was likely shed use a significant proportion if not all her 
benefits, and then potentially her husband. Its unlikely any benefits would be left for her 
child when they had both passed, let alone another generation.
So, I give less weight to these objectives, as BP shouldve. It knows the main purpose 
of pension pots built up over many years is to provide an income for the main 
beneficiary in retirement.
Further, I dont agree with BP that progressing the transfer of Mrs Gs OPS benefits in 2017 
was the right time and that the risks and downsides of delay outweighed any risks she was 
taking on. Actually, some of Mrs Gs objectives related to the ability to take pension benefits 
when she reached 55. For example, going part-time and moving overseas. But she couldnt 
use these flexibilities for four years  why not wait?BP says that transferring her OPS benefits in 2017 meant there was an opportunity for her 
investments to grow. Thats true but given the period in debate here was the short-run 2-3 
years and the investments it recommended were for the medium term, its also possible she 
couldve lost money in that time.
As soon as Mrs G moved her pension many of the risks her former employers had been 
bearing, moved to her. In the scheme of things, Im not persuaded of the case BP makes 
for it being optimum that she transferred her benefits in 2017, rather than say 2-3 years 
later. If shed delayed, her OPS benefits wouldve continued to grow with no risk and shed 
have had more time to develop her phased retirement plans.
BP says that the critical yield required by Mrs Gs new arrangement wasnt an overriding 
factor given her objectives, although it accepts the information was a consideration in 
conjunction with these. I think theres some merit in its argument. But the financial analysis 
was nevertheless still important.
The critical yield is the level of returns Mrs Gs new SIPP would need to have achieved for 
the transfer to match her OPS pension benefits at retirement (aged 60). The suitability 
report indicates that for her main OPS an annual return of not less than 7.48% would be 
required. And for her second smaller OPS an annual return of 10.97% would be needed to 
match the benefits provided by her then existing scheme.
BPs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mrs Gs case.
As stated, the critical yield required to match Mrs Gs OPS benefits was somewhere 
between 7.5-11.0%. This compares with the relevant discount rate of 3.7% given it was 
around 9 years to her 60th birthday. The shortfall is clearly very significant.
The comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable that if Mrs G had a high appetite for risk, the 
investment portfolio selected in that case mightve had an outside chance of big returns 
sufficient to make up the gap with the critical yield. This is in part what BP argued.
In the suitability report it gave Mrs G, BP said her high attitude to risk could help her new 
pension bridge the gap to what she wouldve received from her OPS. The problem for BP is 
that it faces both ways here. I say this because later in the same report it confirms that, given 
her capacity for loss her adjusted risk appetite was medium. It shouldve been clearer about 
the likelihood of her pension benefits being eroded.
I do recognise Mrs Gs medical history was a key factor in BPs recommendation for her to 
transfer her OPS pension benefits. But while serious ill-health can be a good reason to 
consider transferring benefits from a final salary scheme  its by no means a cut & dry 
proposition.
Significantly, Mrs G disclosed to BP that shed been diagnosed with a serious disease in 
2003. She underwent intensive treatment which had been successful. She had to have 
annual screening to ensure that the problem hadnt returned, which happily was the case 
up to when she received financial advice in 2017. However, Mrs G told BP that shed 
received medical advice that she could expect increased ill-health from the age of 50 and 
that her life expectancy wouldnt be normal.I can see Mrs G told BP about the impact her condition could have on her current health as 
well as her life expectancy. But we know her main condition had been in remission for 14 
years. And theres no evidence to suggest there were concerns at the time when the advice 
was given in 2017.
These were clearly critical matters to weigh. But I cant see BP sought evidence from 
medical professionals and actuaries about the likelihood and impact of the health issues 
Mrs G told them about. And I cant see there was any assessment of the effect of her 
condition on how long she might reasonably expect to live.
These matters are important. As BP itself acknowledged, if someone has a relatively short 
life expectancy, then a transfer of pension benefits has the potential to cause tax liabilities. 
For example, in a situation where an individual, under the age of 75, in ill health, 
transferred from an OPS to a SIPP and subsequently died within two years of the transfer 
taking place.
In this scenario, it would be difficult to argue that the transfer was for any other reason 
other than for IHT purposes. And HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) could deem that a 
gratuitous benefit had occurred  where greater death benefits were received by an 
individual who may not have previously received them if the transfer had not occurred. In 
these circumstances, HMRC may levy IHT on those funds.
Conversely, there are many serious conditions that with the advance of medical treatments 
mean that more people are living fuller lives and for longer. A transfer of pension benefits, 
that as identified through considering matters such as the critical yield, was likely to be 
eroding value, raises questions about what provision would be available in the medium to 
longer term.
Other than a short sentence about what income it considered Mrs G might require in 
retirement, I cant see that BP carried out any work to show what resources might be 
available under her new arrangements using, say a discounted cash flow model and 
providing a direct comparator with what her OPS provided for. I think this wouldve been 
important to her being able to take an informed view about the transfer.
I think to reach the bar of clearly demonstrating, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer of Mrs Gs OPS benefits was in her best interests, BP needed to have done more 
due diligence here. The case for transfer may or may not have been established  the 
problem for BP now is that the necessary work wasnt done.
One of the reasons people in serious ill health sometimes decide to explore the transfer of 
OPS benefits into a personal pension is because they believe the position on death 
benefits will be superior. Of course, it all depends on the individuals circumstances, such 
as their health situation, the relative benefits from an OPS or personal pension should the 
worst happen, and so on.
BP pointed to improved death benefits if Mrs G transferred. But this on its own is unlikely 
to make the transfer of benefits suitable. Especially given the BP hadnt done the work 
necessary to show Mrs Gs health situation meant that it was reasonably clear this was in 
her best interest.
I find it odd that in the suitability report, BP said (bolding is my emphasis):
Although Occupational Schemes (when properly funded) provide unmatchable 
guarantees and consistent inflation proofed income, they also come with restricted scheme 
Member flexibility, no control over access (once commenced) and no material Dependent/Survivor value (beyond minimum initial guarantee periods of 5 years in 
this case).
The suitability report noted death benefits were important to Mrs G and I dont know how 
much weight she wouldve placed on this commentary. But the fact was her OPS provided 
good benefits in the event of her passing. Her main OPS wouldve paid either a 50% or 67% 
widows pension depending on whether death occurred before or after retirement. And her 
second OPS wouldve paid a 50% widows pension irrespective of when the death occurred.
The primary point of a pension is to provide income in retirement. And so, when compared 
with the guaranteed retirement income Mrs G was giving up, transferring for the possibility 
of improved death benefits generally wouldnt constitute good advice. Ive already dealt with 
the relevant matters related to Mrs Gs health.
Turning to the assessment by BP of Mrs Gs attitude to risk. She scored 9 out of 10 
aggressive in terms of her preferred investment approach. The definition provided was:
Your attitude to accepting risk is Aggressive. Your priority is likely to be making higher 
returns on your investments and so you accept that you may not get as much back from 
your investments as you put in. Your preferred investment portfolio is likely to contain a 
large percentage of higher-risk investments such as shares.
BP noted that its assessment was validated by Mrs Gs current self-management of her 
SIPP with HL. But importantly it didnt stop at that point. It went on to consider her capacity 
for loss. This included matters such as her net asset position, liabilities, pension values 
and future earning potential.
In the recommendations it made to her in the suitability report it said:
You have a 9 out of 10 Attitude to Risk, which we have interpreted to mean you have a 
High Attitude to Risk. Given the importance of this [pension] asset, we recommend that it is 
managed on a lower risk basis than Level 9. The volatility of risk at this level is very high 
and while we acknowledge that you are an experienced investor, we caution you on the 
importance of this asset as the cornerstone of your future financial security.
You will have already taken some risk in leaving a guaranteed benefit environment, which 
automatically increases risk, and we therefore feel that a Level 5/6 Risk approach at 
Medium would be more appropriate.
The definition of level 6 risk was:
Your attitude to accepting risk is Balanced. This means that while you are likely to be 
concerned with not getting as much back from your investments as you put in, you also 
want to make higher returns on your investments. Your preferred investment portfolio is 
likely to include low-risk investments such as cash and bonds, as well as higher-risk 
investments such as shares.
BPs overall recommendation was as follows:
In view of your health condition and specific financial objectives, I recommend that you 
transfer both Defined Benefit schemes to a Fusion Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) with 
underlying investment management via Brewin Dolphin. On a Medium Investment Risk 
Level 5/6 remit.
I think BP took a responsible approach to advising on and managing Mrs Gs assessed 
appetite for risk. Taking into account her capacity for loss. And that this was reflected in the 
recommendations it made for her investments.But theres a further complication in Mrs Gs case for me to consider. Her relationship with 
BP appears to have ended around May 2017. I understand that she proceeded to invest her 
pension funds with her existing SIPP provider. I have no information about how the funds 
were invested, although she has confirmed that no other advising firm was involved.
Mrs G says at the time of the advice she made it clear to BP she would transfer her 
pension funds into her HL SIPP. She says the funds were initially placed with another 
provider to facilitate the payment of advice fees. She says once the funds were in this 
account BP said she could apply to transfer the money across to HL, which she did.
Mrs G says the adviser knew of her intention to attempt to manage the funds herself on 
HLs platform. She says this was raised when both parties had a discussion about her high 
risk appetite.
BP strongly refute any suggestion that during the advice process its advisers knew of Mrs 
Gs intentions to transfer the funds to HL. As far as it was concerned it was always 
expected her pension funds would be invested precisely as described and recommended 
in its suitability report.
BP says while it was aware that Mrs G already maintained a SIPP with HL, it hasnt seen 
any tangible and/or contemporaneous evidence to support Mrs Gs argument.
When both parties to a complaint take opposing positions, I must decide on the balance of 
probabilities what is most likely to have happened.
Im mindful that in the suitability report BP was clear about the level of risk it recommended 
Mrs G should take on. And it advised on a SIPP provider, discretionary fund management 
arrangement and sample portfolio consistent with its assessment.
Ive also seen exchanges of emails from April and May 2017 which imply that Mrs G would 
be dealing with BP in respect of her investments. For example, on 11 April 2017 BPs 
adviser sent her an email which said:
as you will know, the IM SIPP has now been established and is awaiting the transfer of 
the [OPS] funds. We have confirmation that the discharge papers have been received by 
the ceding Schemes and they have given us a 10-15 working day turnaround to send the 
funds to IM. Once the funds have cleared, we can meet to discuss how you would like to 
proceed
Mrs G responded on 12 April 2017 in the following terms:
Thanksfor the update. I have the IM confirmation now. As agreed we will hold the 
transferred monies in the IM SIPP as cash until we agree an investment strategy. Appreciate 
your help as always.
On 24 May 2017 BPs adviser sent Mrs G a further email. It said:
I can now confirm that both [OPS] transfer sums have now been received and are 
sitting in the cash fund with the IM SIPP. The value is £535,712.43. If you would now like 
to look at some investment strategies and move forward on the Will and Trust 
arrangements, can you give me a couple of dates and times that would be good for you 
next week?
On balance, it seems to me more likely than not BP thought it would be involved in 
ensuring Mrs Gs funds would be invested in accordance with the risk appetite it had confirmed for her. It didnt know she would end its servicing of her pension and make her 
own decisions about where to place her funds. This is important in my consideration of the 
appropriate approach on redress.
Theres another argument which arises here. If Mrs G had sufficiently firm views about her 
pension funds to follow her own investment strategy, then perhaps even if BP had 
recommended that she didnt transfer her OPS, shed have gone ahead anyway. BP takes 
this view. On balance, I dont agree.
I think BP shouldve provided Mrs G with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with 
the transfer of her OPS benefits into a SIPP. I say this because I think it placed too much 
emphasis on her health situation, for which it hasnt shown it did sufficient due diligence to 
be able to support its recommendation.
BP was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mrs G about 
what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over 
many years are to provide an income in retirement. And certainly, when early access to 
benefits is recommended there need to be compelling reasons. I dont think this was the 
case here.
It was BPs role to discern what Mrs Gs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt to 
facilitate what she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and skill. It 
had to do these things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt demonstrated 
that it met these obligations to the fullest extent required.
I think that if BP had given Mrs G appropriate advice, she wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transfer. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against 
the recommendations received, especially given the importance of what was being 
considered. 
BP dispute that Mrs G was a layperson, but Ive not seen evidence to show she was 
experienced in pension matters. And ultimately she sought and paid for professional 
advice.
Ive concluded, on balance, that with better advice, shed have been sufficiently informed to 
have recognised that moving her OPS benefits at that precise moment wasnt necessary or 
in her best interests.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Best Practice IFA Group Limited and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Gs case. So, she would need to be returned to the position she 
wouldve been in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the 
failures which I hold Best Practice IFA Group Limited responsible for.
If BP had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mrs G wouldve transferred her OPS 
benefits into a SIPP. And she wouldnt have suffered any financial loss she is facing. I think 
its most likely she wouldve left her pension where it had been.Mrs Gs main argument against my provisional decision concerned the redress I proposed. 
She made a reasonable argument that, but for BPs advice Id concluded she wouldve 
remained in her OPS. And so putting her back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
transaction not occurred, should mean in broad terms her redress would be the difference 
between the benefits she couldve received from her OPS compared with what was now 
available from the funds that were transferred in 2017.
Generally, this is the position this Service would take on redress. But we must always 
consider the specific circumstances and evidence in each case. As Ive mentioned, as part 
of its recommendations BP made a proposal for her investments, which reflected the risk 
appetite it had carefully assessed with her. Ive concluded that it anticipated she would 
move ahead with such a portfolio and that it would be assisting her with this.
But Mrs G chose to sever links with BP shortly after the transfer of her OPS pension had 
been effected. And she proceeded to make her own investment decisions. I dont know 
what exposure to risk she took on, but it seems it mayve been higher than that 
recommended by BP, given her discussions with it during the advice process. She has also 
told this Service her investments have performed poorly.
Although BP was wrong to recommend the transfer of Mrs Gs OPS funds. I dont think it 
would be fair for it to meet losses that it wasnt responsible for. Causation must have an 
end point. And I think Mrs G must bear some responsibility for ignoring the investment 
recommendations of her adviser.
For the avoidance of doubt, given my findings concerning how Mrs Gs pension funds were 
invested, the reference point for calculating compensation should be the SIPPs value 
based on the benchmark her provider shouldve been working to for her attitude to risk and 
portfolio recommended by BP, not the equivalent value of Mrs Gs SIPP as it stands, which 
has been determined by her own subsequent actions.
So Best Practice IFA Group Limited needs to do the following.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Best Practice IFA Group Limited should pay 
Mrs G the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that BP pays Mrs G the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. BP doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. She may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
I consider Mrs G wouldve remained in her former DB scheme. BP should therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated 
by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Gs acceptance of the decision.
BP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Gs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mrs Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs G within 90 days of the 
date BP receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
BP to pay Mrs G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. As such, I require 
Best Practice IFA Group Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman