DRN-3895847
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has refused to refund him the 
amount he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr H was looking to invest and found the business (Ubrokers) online. The 
business seemed legitimate, and he provided his details which prompted Ubrokers to call 
him with potential investment opportunities.
Mr H decided to invest a small amount with Ubrokers and having seen a return on his 
investment on the Ubrokers platform decided to make further larger investments too. 
Mr H made the following payments to Ubrokers via his Visa debit card:
1. 2 November 2020 - £250
2. 2 November 2020 - £1,000
3. 9 November 2020 - £1,000
4. 20 November 2020 - £2,500
5. 3 December 2020 - £500
6. 7 December 2020 - £1,000
7. 10 December 2020 - £300
8. 10 December 2020 - £300
9. 10 December 2020 - £500
10. 10 December 2020 - £500
11. 10 December 2020 - £500
12. 23 December 2020 - £600
13. 23 December 2020 - £1,000
14. 23 December 2020 - £2,000
Mr H sent a total of £11,950 to Ubrokers before the website was taken down. Mr H has been 
unable to recover the payments he made.
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H didnt 
agree he said Barclays should have protected him from the scam. As Mr H didnt agree this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the scam are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr H and Barclays sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Barclays 
should refund any of the money Mr H has lost because of this scam.
There appears to be some confusion over whether Mr H was in communication with 
Barclays or not about the possibility or processing a chargeback claim for the payments he 
made to Ubrokers, within the time limits that applied.
I have thought about whether this made a difference or not to Mr H receiving a refund of the 
payments he made to Ubrokers, and I dont think it did. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Barclay was only able to request a chargeback claim from the business Mr H had paid 
(Ubrokers). Specific information was required to make a chargeback claim, including 
evidence that the account Mr H had with Ubrokers had a balance, and that an attempt to 
withdraw funds from Ubrokers was made.
Mr H has explained that he didnt attempt to make a withdrawal from Ubrokers as the 
website disappeared from the internet before he had the chance. Our Investigator gave Mr H 
the opportunity to show he would have been able to provide the necessary evidence to 
attempt a chargeback, but he was unable to do this. So, I dont think the chargeback process 
would have been an option for Mr H. 
I understand that Mr H feels his payments to Ubrokers should be refunded in accordance 
with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But the CRM code does not apply 
to payments made by card. As Mr H made all the payments to Ubrokers via his Visa debit 
card Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Mr H has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Ubrokers, so the starting point 
here is that Mr H is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mr H was making.
Mr H made a total of 14 payments to Ubrokers between 2 November 2020 and 23 December 
2020. This was a substantial period. None of the payments were for a significant enough 
value that I would have expected Barclays fraud prevention systems to have been triggered. 
And by the time Mr H was making multiple small payments in one day his account was 
showing a history of making relatively regular payments to a business he appeared to trust. 
So, I dont think any of the payments would have reasonably triggered Barclays fraud 
prevention systems.
Mr H has argued that scams originating from Ubrokers should have been apparent to 
Barclays as this information was available on the FCA website, and this should have 
prompted Barclays to stop the payments.
I have looked at the information available on the FCA website and can see it was added 
after Mr H made his first payment to Ubrokers. While this information was available on the FCA website part way through the scam taking place its reasonable that Barclays systems 
werent immediately updated as soon as the information was recorded. These kinds of 
updates understandably take time to filter though the banking systems.
I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays systems had not been updated by the time 
Mr H made his final payment to Ubrokers.
As I dont think the payments Mr H made to Ubrokers would reasonably have triggered 
Barclays fraud prevention systems I dont think it would have been aware of the scam or 
have been able to step in to prevent it. So, I dont think Barclays is responsible for Mr Hs 
loss and I am not asking it to refund any of the payments he made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman