DRN-3909719
The complaint
Mr E complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to turn down his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr E holds income protection cover with L&G, the aim of which is to pay benefit if he cant 
work in his own occupation due to illness or injury. The policy has a 13-week deferred 
period. 
In March 2022, Mr E stopped work after experiencing pain in his chest and arm. It was then 
confirmed hed had a heart attack. He had surgery and was discharged from hospital and 
had cardiac rehabilitation. 
Mr E submitted a claim to L&G, but this was turned down as L&G didnt think Mr Es 
condition prevented him from working throughout the entire deferred period. Though L&G 
offered Mr E £400 compensation for its handling of his claim. Unhappy with this, Mr E 
brought a complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought L&Gs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, Mr E needs to show that he was incapacitated throughout the 13-
week deferred period. The policy defines incapacity as:
we will consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claimand are 
satisfied that you have no capacity for working in your own occupation, on any basis, as a 
direct result of your injury or illness.
As our Investigator has explained, we think a strict application of the above wording would 
be unfair. Therefore, Mr E would only need to show he was prevented from carrying out the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation, rather than having no capacity for working 
in his occupation on any basis.
 
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence. 
Mr Es GP signed him off throughout the deferred period and said he could not work due to 
his acute myocardial infarction. 
Mr E was reviewed in April 2022 by a cardiac nurse and was noted to be making a good 
recovery. He had not experienced any chest pain or breathlessness, but did feel slightly 
tired, though he was reassured this was normal in the early stages. Mr E advised the nurse 
he intended to take at least a month off work.
In May 2022, Mr Es GP confirmed that he was stable following his heart attack, and was 
being monitored by cardiology regarding his rehabilitation.
In June 2022, Mr E was reviewed by L&Gs vocational clinical specialist nurse. He could do 
the majority of typical day-to-day activities (though he needed to rest after walking for 45 
minutes to an hour, sit down after standing for 30 minutes, and change position after sitting 
for 30 minutes). Mr E had indicated there were no changes to his typical day, and he was 
doing some physical exercise every day. But he said if he spent the day out with his family, 
he suffered with fatigue the following day. The nurse was of the opinion Mr E was unable to 
return to work due to his reported fatigue, but she thought he should be able to return to 
work in six weeks time. 
L&G was unsure why fatigue was preventing Mr E from working, when hed reported that he 
was exercising regularly and able to carry out his daily routine. It therefore referred the 
matter to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO). 
The CMO reviewed the medical evidence and thought Mr E did not have an obvious 
explanation for his ongoing absence. He said that Mr E had been treated appropriately and 
he would have expected him to have returned to work in May 2022 (given there was no 
impact on Mr Es day-to-day functional ability). The CMO thought there was a psychological 
aspect to Mr Es fatigue, and was of the view he may benefit from psychological support 
alongside resuming work, and made the point that work is beneficial for psychological 
wellbeing too. 
In the absence of any information from a treating specialist, I think it was reasonable for L&G 
to rely on its CMOs view here. Although Mr Es GP signed him off work throughout the 13-
week deferred period due to his heart attack, he was reported as being stable in April 2022. 
By the time the deferred period ended, Mr E was able to do his normal routine and was 
exercising every day. Although Mr E was experiencing fatigue, L&Gs CMO thought this was 
due to psychological reasons rather than Mr Es heart attack, and thought Mr E would benefit 
from returning to work, despite this. 
In all the circumstances, whilst its clear Mr E has been through a difficult time, Im satisfied 
L&Gs decision to turn down the claim was reasonable. 
I see that L&G was responsible for some delays with the claim. For example, it received 
Mr Es medical notes from his GP on 8 June 2022, but didnt take any action until Mr E 
contacted it in early July 2022. L&G accepted it had caused some delays, and also accepted 
there had been a lack of communication on its part regarding the progression of the claim. 
L&G offered Mr E £400 compensation. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances, and 
reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr E by its handling of the matter. 
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has made an offer to pay Mr E £400 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I dont require L&G to pay 
the claim.
So my decision is that L&G should pay Mr E £400 if it has not already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman