DRN-2555567
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold Mrs O a whole-of-life policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O received advice from Zurich in 2003. They had increased their mortgage and 
its recorded they were looking for advice about family protection in the event of death.
The advisor noted that they had endowments which covered most of the mortgage, and 
employment benefits that would pay out the remainder if theyd passed away. The advisor 
recommended there was a need for cover if Mrs O passed away. The recommended amount 
was around £111,000 but this didnt fit within their budget. So, Mrs O took out a whole-of-life 
policy with a sum assured of around £73,000 guaranteed for ten years. After that initial ten 
years the sum assured would decrease or premiums would have to increase. This policy 
was placed in trust to ensure that Mrs Es beneficiaries received the benefit of the money as 
soon as possible if she passed away. Mr O is the trustee and is party to this complaint. 
In 2019, Mrs O complained. She explained she was aware she had other cover and felt that 
this cover wasnt needed. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that 
the recommendation Zurich made was suitable for Mrs Os circumstances at the time. She 
said that the recommendation took into account the existing cover Mrs O had and her 
priorities at the time. She also said the advisor discussed other cover available. The 
investigator felt the cost of the policy at the time was considered taking into account Mrs Os 
disposable income and that the recommendation was amended to ensure it was affordable. 
So, she didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs O remained unsatisfied and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons.
Mrs Os circumstances at the time showed she had an outstanding mortgage which was on 
a part interest-only, part repayment basis. The majority of this mortgage was covered by two 
endowment policies. Mrs O also had death in service benefits from her employer. Had she 
passed away, the mortgage wouldve been fully repaid by the endowment policies and the 
death in service benefit. But the advisor explained this didnt leave anything for her partner 
and child to receive if she passed away.
I can see the fact find completed at the point of sale recorded that Mrs O was interested in 
family protection in the event of her death. So, I dont think having the existing policies in 
place made the new policy unsuitable.
From the reasons why letter, Zurich explained that it considered term assurance to be an 
alternative, and less expensive option. But it explained Mrs O was happy to pay slightly more 
for cover that could last longer. I can also see that it was Zurich that recommended the 
policy be written in trust to ensure Mrs Os beneficiaries received the sum assured without 
delay if she passed away. I think this shows in depth discussions about what she wanted 
took place here.
This policy wasnt taken out to cover her mortgage, it was to provide additional money to 
Mrs Os family if she passed away. The mortgage was already covered mostly by the 
endowment policies. The amount of cover recommended was to provide a lump sum to take 
into account lost income from Mrs O over a period of years. I can see that Mrs O didnt want 
to take this recommended amount due to budget purposes. So, it was recommended she 
take a lower amount of cover, which was guaranteed for ten years. This cover cost around 
£16 per month. I can see that Mrs Os disposable income at the time was around £300 per 
month. So, I dont think this was unaffordable for her. I can also she has continued to keep 
this policy live and increase the premiums  which was explained would need to happen at 
the outset.
Overall I think Zurich recommended a policy that was suitable for Mrs Os needs at the time 
taking into account all of her circumstances and budget. Im satisfied it discussed 
alternatives with her, and that this product matched the need identified. So, I dont think 
Zurich has mis-sold this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman