DRN-3237044
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as First Direct, wont refund to her the 
money that she paid for services in connection with the relinquishment of a timeshare. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 December 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
Mrs S and her husband had an agreement for a timeshare with a timeshare 
company. They wanted to end the agreement so they entered into a contract with the 
supplier, which is a company that specialises in timeshare relinquishment, and Mrs S 
paid it £903.56 in February 2015 using her First Direct credit card.
Mrs S claimed a refund of the £903.56 from First Direct under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that, in order for her claim to be assessed, it 
required her contract with the supplier, including the terms and conditions. She 
couldnt provide those documents so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He was 
persuaded that there had been a misrepresentation and a breach of contract so he 
recommended that First Direct should refund Mrs S the money that shed paid to the 
supplier, with interest. 
First Direct has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that there were discussions between the supplier and Mrs S prior to the contract 
being made, which clearly made reference to how the agreement would be exited 
which was on the grounds of ill health due to Mrs Ss husbands surgery  but he 
made a recovery and they didnt want to use that reason to exit the agreement 
because they were able to travel and didnt want to impact their travel insurance. It 
says that it seems that Mrs S changed her mind about how the agreement would be 
exited after making the payment, so any discussions that took place after the 
payment was made are irrelevant for a misrepresentation.
It also says that Mrs S was deemed to be aware of the terms which applied to the 
timeshare and was also aware of the details of the health issues which could be used 
as a basis of the exit  so the reliance element of the test for misrepresentation 
hadnt been properly satisfied. It says that Mrs S has provided no information to it to 
consider a section 75 claim so its especially unfair and unreasonable for it to be held 
liable for refunding the price paid to the supplier in circumstances where Mrs S and 
her husband should be expected to have communicated directly with the timeshare 
company about their circumstances in relation to the existing timeshare, rather than 
engaging with the supplier.
Mrs S says the timeshare was relinquished in July 2016 which was confirmed in a 
letter from the timeshare company. She says that, even though theyre out of the 
timeshare, they havent received their deposit of £2,275 back and shed like First 
Direct to refund it to her.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
Mrs S used credit provided by First Direct to pay for services from the supplier. In 
certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer 
an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of 
credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be 
able to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about First Direct, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract by the supplier or that she was induced into entering into 
the contact by a misrepresentation made by the supplier, and that First Directs 
response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. But Im not 
determining the outcome of Mrs Ss claim under section 75 as only a court would be 
able to do that.
Its clear that Mrs S and her husband wanted to relinquish their timeshare and they 
entered into a contract with the supplier as it specialises in timeshare relinquishment 
and Mrs S paid £903.56 to the supplier in February 2015. She hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of her agreement with the supplier but shes provided some e-mail 
correspondence with it from that time, including an e-mail from the supplier in 
February 2015 which says:
 it is my professional opinion that the best solution for you would be to 
pursue the route of a Guaranteed Exit Solution with us. Simply put, this is 
where we negotiate with your timeshare company and legally get you out of 
the contract .
In complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
I consider it to be clear that the supplier represented to Mrs S and her husband that it 
guaranteed that it would legally get them out of their contract with the timeshare 
company. I also consider it to be more likely than not that Mrs S and her husband 
relied on that representation when entering into the contract with the supplier - so 
they were induced into entering into the contract by that representation.
The supplier drafted a relinquishment letter to the timeshare company which Mrs S 
and her husband sent in June 2015 and it replied with a letter setting out their options 
for disposing of their timeshare membership. Mrs S exchanged e-mails with the 
supplier about relinquishment options and it appears that the timeshare company 
was being asked to accept a surrender of the timeshare because of exceptional 
circumstances on the basis of Mrs Ss husbands medical issues.
The supplier said in an e-mail in October 2015: I asked you in the beginning to get 
the dr to authorise a letter saying you had an operation and didnt want to travel etc 
but you decided against it because of future holiday insurance which I told you would 
be fine. Mrs S replied that there were no after-effects from the operation, her 
husband was fitter than before the operation and it wasnt true to say that they didnt 
want to travel. Mrs S sent another e-mail to the supplier in January 2016 because the 
timeshare company hadnt accepted their request to relinquish the timeshare and 
they would have to pay maintenance fees for another year.Ive not seen all of the communications after that between Mrs S, the supplier and the 
timeshare company but Mrs S has confirmed that the timeshare was relinquished in 
July 2016. She says that that was achieved because of her efforts and not because 
of the services provided by the supplier. Mrs S isnt satisfied with the services 
provided by the supplier but I consider that the supplier has provided services to her 
and her timeshare has been relinquished. The supplier guaranteed an exit from the 
timeshare contract and thats what has been achieved.
Ive seen no evidence to show that the supplier had said that Mrs S would receive a 
refund of the deposit that shed paid to the timeshare company and her complaint to 
this service only referred to the payment that shed made to the supplier (and not to 
the deposit). Because of that, Im unable to consider the deposit as part of this 
complaint and I make no finding about the deposit (but I consider it to be unlikely in 
these circumstances that First Direct would be liable to refund the deposit to Mrs S).
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the supplier 
misrepresented its services to Mrs S  it guaranteed an exit from the timeshare 
contract and that has been achieved. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier. It provided 
services to Mrs S to help her get out of the timeshare contract. Mrs S wasnt happy 
with the services that it provided but that isnt enough to show that theres been a 
breach of contract by the supplier.
I dont consider that First Directs response to Mrs Ss section 75 claim was fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances. It said that it required her contract with the 
supplier, including the terms and conditions, in order for it to assess her claim. I 
consider that it was provided with enough information for it to be able to investigate 
her complaint. But, if it had properly investigated her complaint, I consider that it 
would have said that there hadnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier.
I sympathise with Mrs S for the issues that shes had with the timeshare company 
and the supplier, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require First Direct to refund to her the £903.56 that she paid 
to the supplier, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
Subject to any further comments from Mrs S or from First Direct, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. First Direct has accepted my provisional 
decision but Mrs S has provided the following information in response to it. She says that:
the breach of contract was when the supplier stopped replying to her emails and 
phone calls  and that the last contact it had with her was in October 2015;
she sent a further letter to the supplier in July 2016 requesting a refund after shed 
visited the timeshare companys office;
the contract states: "We negotiate with your timeshare company and legally get you 
out" but the supplier never contacted the timeshare and only drafted some letters for 
her to send; 
there were no discussions prior to the contract payment about how the agreement 
would be exited and the only discussion was about the currency for the payment; and
the stumbling block was that her doctor wouldnt falsify documents so that she could 
have an easy exit. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes careful consideration of the information that Mrs S has provided in response to 
my provisional decision  but that information hasnt changed my findings on her complaint. 
Its clear that there have been issues with the service that Mrs S received from the supplier 
and that she went to the timeshare companys office to end her timeshare contract. Although 
I sympathise with Mrs S for that experience, I dont consider that the issues that shes 
described are enough to amount to a breach of contract by the supplier.
The supplier guaranteed an exit from the timeshare contract which has been achieved and it 
provided services to Mrs S to help her get out of that contract. Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier in these circumstances. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
First Direct to refund to Mrs S the £903.56 that she paid to the supplier, to pay her any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman