DRN-2927231
The complaint
Mr Y complains that TSB Bank plc did not pay him interest on two of his accounts.
What happened
Mr Y received monthly interest on his two TSB current accounts. He noticed that there was a 
prolonged period where he didnt receive any interest on his accounts despite being in credit. 
Mr Y complained to TSB regarding this. Mr Y says that TSB increased the interest rate on 
the type of current accounts he held from 3% to 5% to reflect system upgrade issues in April 
2018 but he didnt benefit from the increase of the interest rate.
TSB did not uphold Mr Ys complaint. They said that the credit interest was stopped on Mr 
Ys two current accounts due to paperless correspondence being deactivated as he had not 
logged onto his internet banking in a year and acknowledged all online correspondences. 
They said he received an online notification in January 2018 to review his correspondence 
preferences, but he opted to keep paper statements. As part of the terms and conditions of 
his accounts show he needed to be registered for paperless statements to receive interest, 
so this was a reason why he didnt receive interest. TSB also said that there were some 
months where Mr Y hadnt paid in at least £500 a month into his accounts which was also 
one of the criteria to receive interest on his accounts.
TSB acknowledged they increased the interest rate on the account in light of system 
upgrade issues but said that Mr Y would still need to meet all of the eligibility criteria to 
benefit from credit interest on his accounts. TSB said that as a gesture of goodwill they 
would credit both of his accounts with credit interest from 1 September to 31 December 
2017. The amount credited to both accounts was £14.61.
Mr Y did not accept the outcome of his complaint and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ys complaint. He said the terms of paperless correspondence 
that TSB sent our service clearly states that the account would only be set back to paper-
based correspondence if Mr Y didnt log into his account online for 12 months. He noted that 
TSB said that Mr Y had to have read all of the correspondence on his account as well. But 
the terms and conditions did not show this requirement. Our investigator said that as it was 
apparent that Mr Y had been logging into online banking to transfer money then this shows 
he would have been meeting the requirements.
Our investigator acknowledged that there were some months where Mr Y didnt meet the 
criteria to receive the interest  when Mr Y didnt credit at least £500 a month into the 
account. He also said TSB Bank had explained that in January 2018 that Mr Y actively 
selected to keep paper-based correspondence in response to a message on the online 
system, but the message which TSB sent our service wasnt clear and Mr Ys account 
should have remained on a paperless basis. And had that happened, there would have been 
no need for Mr Y to answer questions about his settings. 
Our investigator said that TSB should calculate what credit interest Mr Y should have 
received into his accounts, apart from the months where less than £500 a month was paid in 
and pay this interest into his accounts. The increase in rate to 5% to reflect the systems 
issues in April 2018 should also be factored into the calculation. TSB disagreed with the view 
of our investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the eligibility criteria which Mr Y would need to meet to receive credit interest 
on his two TSB current accounts. In correspondence which TSB sent Mr Y when the interest 
rate changed it says the way you earn interest on your account stays the same. You still 
need to pay in a minimum of £500 a month and be registered for Internet Banking, paperless 
statements and paperless correspondence. You also need to make sure you log into your 
Internet Banking at least once every 12 months.
Looking at Mr Ys statements he was paying in a minimum of £500 a month into both 
accounts and he was registered for internet banking, paperless statements and paperless 
correspondence just before his credit interest stopped. TSB have said that as Mr Y hadnt 
logged into his online banking for 12 months and acknowledged the online correspondence 
then this is why the credit interest stopped. But I am persuaded that Mr Y has accessed his 
online banking within the 12 month period prior to his credit interest stopping.
I say this because in TSBs response to our investigator they said our record(s) show that 
Mr Y was transferring the interest online. So Ive looked at the paperless terms and 
conditions to see what these say about the implications of not acknowledging online 
correspondence/statements as it appears that this was the reason why the credit interest 
was stopped, as Mr Y met all of the other criteria for receiving credit interest. 
The paperless terms show that when agreeing to receive documents online that you can 
view your statements or correspondence online at any time. The terms do not state that he 
must view the correspondence/statements or he will be moved to paper based 
correspondence. In the section titled what happens if I dont view my online statement or 
correspondence there is no mention that Mr Y has to acknowledge the online 
correspondence/statements. 
In the section what happens if I dont use internet banking for an extended period it says if 
you dont log in for twelve consecutive months well start sending you paper correspondence 
again. So as the paperless terms and conditions dont state Mr Y has to acknowledge the 
correspondence or statements they send him online then Im satisfied that he hasnt broke 
any of these terms and should have continued to receive credit interest on both accounts.
Ive considered what TSB has said regarding Mr Y agreeing to still receive paper statements 
in January 2018. This would mean as hes accepted to receive paper statements then he 
wouldnt be eligible for credit interest. And this is a fair point. But I also agree with our 
investigator that the message which TSB sent our service wasnt clear and Mr Ys account 
should have remained on a paperless basis for the reasons Ive already given. 
Im persuaded that had TSB not deactivated his paperless correspondence then there would 
have been little reason for TSB to contact Mr Y to ask him his correspondence preferences. 
But if they wouldve done and asked him if he wanted to stay on paperless 
correspondence/statements Im persuaded he would have agreed to this also  on the basis 
he had been on a paperless basis for a prolonged period of time by that point. So, in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable here, I need to consider what position Mr Y would have 
been in if TSB hadnt deactivated his paperless status. Im satisfied that he wouldve stayed on paperless statements and met the eligibility criteria 
for credit interest - apart from the months he didnt credit £500 into his accounts. And he 
would have been eligible for the increase in the interest rate to 5%. So Im persuaded that it 
would be reasonable for TSB to put Mr Y in the same position as he was before they 
deactivated his paper statements. And pay him the credit interest he would have received if 
he was on paperless statements.
  
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that TSB should calculate what credit interest Mr Y should have 
received into his accounts in the months when they didnt pay him interest - apart from the 
months where less than £500 a month was credited into the accounts and they should pay 
this credit interest into Mr Ys accounts. The increase in the interest rate to 5% should also 
be factored into the calculation where applicable. Im satisfied that this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons Ive already given. 
My final decision
TSB Bank Plc should calculate what credit interest Mr Y should have received into his 
accounts in the months when they didnt pay him interest - apart from the months where less 
than £500 a month was credited into the accounts and they should pay this credit interest 
into Mr Ys accounts. The increase in the interest rate to 5% should also be factored into the 
calculation where applicable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman