DRN-3520706
The complaint
Miss O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) treated her poorly when dealing with a 
transaction she had asked to be reversed.
What happened
On 21 July 2021, Miss Os car was clamped by a bailiff, and in order to release it she 
needed to make a payment to a company that for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as 
M. In order to have her car released she needed to pay M £558, she did this using her debit 
card. Monzo approved the transaction and waited for M to claim it.
M told Miss O that they couldnt trace the payment, and Monzo needed to release the funds 
for them to be able to release her car. She contacted Monzo using the online chat function 
asking them to release the funds. Monzo gave automated explanations of how the payment 
system worked, as these didnt fit Miss Os exact issue the chat function was routed to be 
dealt with by an agent.
Miss O asked for the funds to be reversed saying it was an emergency  they explained to 
Miss O, when you make a payment with your card, Monzo set the money aside and then it is 
for the merchant (in this case M) to collect the payment. They said the payment had been 
authorised and was waiting for M to claim it. They gave her the transaction reference 
number and said she should share it with M, and it would help them locate it.
A few minutes later Miss O said M would not accept the reference number and asked for 
Monzo to reverse the transaction. Miss O said M had told her the transaction had been 
declined at their end. So Monzo explained that could mean M wouldnt collect the money 
and if that happened the funds would be returned to her account on 29 July 2021. Miss O 
was upset with this and said there was no way she could wait that long for the funds to be 
returned. Monzo explained the only other option was a reversal and this could still take up to 
seven days.
Miss O became quite distressed at what she was being told and wanted to speak to 
someone. The agent explained that if she could get proof from M that they wouldnt be 
claiming the funds then Monzo could arrange for a specialist to reverse the payment. Miss O 
provided proof from M, Monzo told her the reversal request would be passed to the 
payments team and someone would contact her within eight hours.
Monzo contacted Miss O after a few hours and asked her to complete a form and advised 
her to contact M to ask for a refund. They said disputes could take up to 14 days. They 
asked her to provide proof that she was due to have the money back. Miss O was upset as 
she had already provided this to them earlier in the day and complained in the chat. 
The following day Miss O contacted Monzo again asking for the funds to be returned to her 
as she said her car still hadnt been released. Monzo told her that M had now collected the 
money so she would need to ask them directly for a refund. Miss O called M who said they 
still couldnt trace the payment. Monzo gave Miss O all the transaction details to share with 
M. There was quite a bit of back and forth over the next couple of days but on 25 July 2021 
Monzo confirmed that as they had seen proof the payment shouldnt have been collected it 
would refund the money to Miss O. £558 was credited to her account the same day.
Monzo responded to Miss Os complaint and said they had given confusing information to 
her about time frames, but the dispute was handled correctly once it reached the right 
department. They paid Miss O £40 for the confusion theyd caused. 
On 16 August 2021 Miss O made a separate payment of £323 to M by bank transfer, this 
was not to do with the clamping of her car.
On 23 August 2021 M refunded the payment of £558, it had incorrectly claimed, to Miss Os 
account. As Monzo had already refunded this to Miss O she had now been refunded twice 
and so Monzo informed her they would be debiting the second refund from her account. 
They gave her two weeks notice telling her they would collect it on 10 September 2021, so 
she could make sure she had enough funds in her account to stop it from going overdrawn. 
Miss O contacted Monzo AND said they shouldnt collect all of the £558 as she had made 
other payments to M that were due to be returned, including the £323 bank transfer on 16 
August 2021. She said if Monzo had to take it could they wait until 17 September 2021 as 
she was expecting a payment into her account then.  Miss O spoke to various people over 
the following days, and on 8 September 2021 Monzo explained they couldnt delay the 
collection of the funds from the disputes team. But they would issue a temporary credit to 
Miss O until 17 September to stop her from going overdrawn while she waited for the 
payment that was due into her account. They did this and reclaimed the temporary credit on 
17 September 2021, as agreed.
Miss O brought her complaint to this service as she felt Monzo should compensate her for 
the hassle that shed been put through dealing with the original transaction. She believed 
Monzo was at fault for the payment not going through originally and for her car not being 
released straight away. She felt Monzo should pay her £558 in compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt feel it was a case that should be upheld, she believed the £40 Monzo 
had already paid, for giving confusing information, was fair. She also thought theyd acted 
fairly when arranging the temporary credit to Miss Os account to allow her extra time before 
having the money debited from her account.
Following the investigators findings, Monzo, contacted us increasing its offer of 
compensation to £80. Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. But Miss O disagreed 
and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Miss O that I feel the offer Monzo has made is a fair one and so 
I wont be asking them to increase it, Ill explain.
I totally understand Miss Os frustration that the payment she made hadnt gone through 
smoothly, but I havent seen anything to suggest this was because of an error made by 
Monzo. The evidence actually suggests the opposite as M were able to locate and claim it 
the following day, if Monzo hadnt authorised the payment as they said they had, M wouldnt 
have been able to do that. 
There is no dispute however that Monzo was slow to react to the problem Miss O was facing and gave her confusing information about how she could have the payment reversed or 
refunded. They initially paid £40 compensation for this  its lower than I would have 
recommended, however the increased offer of £80 is in line with what Id expect. I say this 
because although the information was confusing, they did process the dispute and put the 
money back into Miss Os account within four days of the initial transaction. 
When M then also refunded the payment in August, it was right for Monzo to deduct the 
second credit from Miss Os account. I believe they did this fairly giving her notice and then 
working with her to make arrangements so her account wouldnt go overdrawn.
I understand the Miss O feels she had to work hard to get agreement to this, but from what 
Ive seen Monzo was trying to help in all of the communications they had with Miss O. I also 
appreciate that she felt they shouldnt take the whole amount as M still needed to refund her 
other payments she had made, but these transactions were separate and needed to be 
treated as such.
I know Miss O will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Monzo  can do for her.
Putting things right
Monzo should pay Miss O £80 in compensation for the errors they made when 
communicating with her. They can deduct from this amount, any payments they have 
already made in relation to this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold his complaint and now 
require Monzo to settle things with Miss O as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman