DRN-3033269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded late payment 
markers on their credit files when they thought a payment holiday had been applied to their 
accounts.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr and Mrs S but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr S.
Mr S has two credit card accounts with Barclays. He says that, in around March 2020, he 
was offered a payment holiday due to Covid-19. He says he called Barclays and was told to 
cancel his Direct Debit and that he wouldnt be charged any late payment fees. He says he 
was told things were taking longer than usual, but that he should wait to hear from Barclays. 
And he says he was told that, if he was able to make a payment in the meantime, he should 
do so. He says he didnt hear anything from Barclays, but found he was able to make some 
payments. These werent made on time, but Mr S says he didnt worry as hed been told 
there would be no late payment charges. 
Later, Mr and Mrs S applied to re-mortgage their property. Mr S says their application was 
declined because Barclays had recorded late payment markers on his credit file. Mr S 
complained to Barclays and asked it to remove the late payment markers. He said hed 
never missed a payment in the whole time hed had a credit card. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said that there wasnt a payment holiday in place on 
Mr Ss accounts. It said that hed been advised to cancel his Direct Debit because he could 
have applied for a payment holiday and, if that had been set up, his credit file wouldnt have 
been affected. Barclays said it had sent Mr S a message about a payment holiday but didnt 
hear from him. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
He said his credit score has been adversely affected by the late payment entries and this is 
affecting his ability to obtain credit. Mr S would like Barclays to remove the late payment 
markers from his credit file and accept that he never missed a payment.
Our Investigator didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. But Mr S didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance which said that 
businesses should offer payment holidays of up to three months for customers who were 
negatively impacted by Covid-19. It said that customers credit files shouldnt be affected by 
taking a payment holiday. 
Mr S says he contacted Barclays in March. This was after lockdown was announced but 
before the FCA guidance had been released. Barclays doesnt have any recordings of calls 
from Mr S at that time, so I havent been able to listen to any conversations that took place. 
But Barclays wasnt offering payment holidays in March. And Im satisfied that no payment 
holiday was put in place during the call, as Mr S says he was told to wait and hear and that 
he should make a payment in the meantime if he was able to do so.
Barclays says it sent a text message to Mr S in April informing him that payment holidays 
were available. The screenshots Ive seen confirm that messages were sent soon after the 
FCA guidance was released.
Barclays says that its process was for payment holiday requests to be made online. It says 
that, when customers applied for a payment holiday through the website, they were notified 
whether it had been agreed. Barclays says that notes were then automatically entered on 
the customers accounts. There arent any such notes on Mr Ss accounts and Barclays says 
it has no record of any online application having been made by him. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr S applied for a payment holiday through the website or contacted Barclays 
in response to the text message. So I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays didnt put 
a payment holiday in place. It wasnt automatically putting payment holidays in place on 
customers accounts and it didnt have to.
But Mr S thought that the outcome of his phone call was that Barclays was going to put a 
payment holiday in place or contact him about this. There arent any call recordings for me to 
listen to. But I think its likely that, at that stage of the pandemic, there may have been 
confusion and a lack of clarity over what customers ought to do. So Ive no reason to doubt 
what Mr S says he was told over the phone.
But Mr S was receiving statements and I think it was clear from those that no payment 
holidays were in place. The statements didnt refer to a payment holiday and they continued 
to ask for minimum payments. So I think Mr S ought reasonably to have known that there 
were no payment holidays in place, even if he thought Barclays was processing a payment 
holiday request.
Mr Ss payments in April and May 2020 werent made by the due dates. He says that 
Barclays told him it wouldnt make any late payment charges and Im satisfied that none 
were applied to the accounts. But it did report the late payments to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. Mr S says he didnt know his credit file would be affected and that, if Barclays had 
told him, he might have done something different. So Ive looked at what Barclays said at the 
time about any credit file impact.
The March, April and May statements for one of Mr Ss accounts contained the following 
message:
Temporary fee suspension  Due to the unprecedented situation caused by COVID-19, 
from 19 March, we will be temporarily suspending all cash fees and late payment fees. It is 
still important you continue to make your regular monthly payment, as failure to do so will 
impact your credit rating and might make it difficult for you to obtain credit in the future. If you 
are unable to make your payment please contact us to discuss.
The April and May statements for that account also said: 
You have failed to make a minimum payment. Failing to make your minimum payment can 
mean that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us taking legal action against you. It could lead to you having to pay additional costs and make it more 
difficult for you to obtain credit in future.
The message about the temporary fee suspension was set out in the April, May and June 
statements for the other account. The April and May statements for that account also 
included the message about failure to make the minimum payment.
I think it was clear from these messages that Mr Ss credit file could be affected if he didnt 
make the minimum payments by the due dates. So, although I find it likely that there was 
some confusion during the March phone call about the timing and implementation of any 
payment holidays, I think Mr S ought to have realised from the information on his statements 
that his credit file could be affected even though late payment fees werent being applied.
As there werent payment holidays in place on the accounts and the payments werent made 
on time, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by reporting late payments to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. It hadnt said it wouldnt do this and the statements warned that Mr Ss 
credit rating would be impacted by missing payments.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Barclays acted unfairly here so Im not going to 
ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman