DRN-4480403
The complaint
H complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
mis-sold their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
H, a hospitality business, took out a commercial property insurance policy with NFU in 2019. 
In November 2021 H contacted NFU to make a claim for storm damage to a marquee, 
gazebos, and an above ground pool.
NFU subsequently declined the claim on the basis of a policy exclusion for storm damage to 
moveable contents in the open. H complained to NFU that theyd specifically asked for cover 
for these items, and other items, kept in the open.
NFU looked into matters and accepted that theyd incorrectly led H to believe these items 
were covered. NFU offered £200 compensation for this. However, they said they wouldnt 
have ever been able to provide cover for them, and it would be unlikely H could have 
secured cover elsewhere. So, whilst they offered £200 compensation, they maintained the 
claim decision for the damaged items.
H was unhappy with NFUs position and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said it was 
accepted by NFU they had given incorrect advice. But he wasnt persuaded H wouldnt have 
been able to obtain cover elsewhere if NFU had advised them correctly. So, he said NFU 
should reimburse the costs H incurred in replacing the gazebos and above ground pool, with 
8% simple interest added, and deal with the marquee part of the claim.
NFU didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
H told NFU that they were looking to move from their current insurer as they wanted 
someone more local, who could come out and look at the property and their insurance needs 
including cover for furniture, a marquee and other items outside. NFU visited Hs property 
and drew up an initial quote. And over the course of several phone calls, policy cover was 
discussed, finalised and arranged. 
It was an advised sale and NFU said the policy was suitable for Hs needs. In the calls 
between NFU and H before the sale completed, NFU also confirmed that the outdoor items 
which H specifically needed cover for were insured under the policy.
However, when the marquee, gazebos and above ground pool were damaged during a 
storm, NFU declined the claim on the basis of the following policy exclusion:
Storm, hail and weight of snow excluding DAMAGE:
.
4 to fences, gates, hedges or moveable PROPERTY in the open other than 
TRAILERS
NFU accept that H was mis-led when taking out the policy and they should have been told 
that there was a policy exclusion for items in the open, but instead they were incorrectly told 
the items would be covered. NFU apologised for what happened and offered £200 
compensation.
However, despite NFU accepting they incorrectly advised the items would be covered, NFU 
hasnt agreed to cover them. This is because NFU say they wouldnt ever have been able to 
cover them, and other insurers wouldnt either. So, they say H hasnt had a loss of 
opportunity to get cover, so they say £200 compensation is sufficient to put things right.
Like our investigator, I dont think this is fair. NFU hasnt demonstrated H would never have 
been able to obtain cover elsewhere. NFU may not have been able to provide this 
themselves, and whilst they have provided terms of a different insurer who has a similar 
exclusion to NFU, this doesnt demonstrate H would never have been able to obtain this 
cover elsewhere across the insurance market.
In my view, if NFU had told H they couldnt cover this, then H would most likely have looked 
to secure this elsewhere, given it was a key part of cover which H required and something 
they explained from the outset to NFU, so clearly of key importance to H.
Whilst some insurers might not have provided that cover, I dont think its been shown that 
no other insurer would have, for example via specialist insurers, or via perhaps an all risk 
type policy. So, I dont agree with NFU that there hasnt been a loss of opportunity to get 
cover.
In fact, during the quote negotiation stages, H told NFU that their previous insurer had 
agreed to cover the items in order to retain H as a customer, but it was the local aspect and 
being (incorrectly) told they would have the cover which persuaded H to move to NFU, 
despite them being more expensive.
Therefore, Im satisfied NFU need to do more than simply provide £200 compensation to put 
things right. Instead, they also now need cover those damaged items which they told H were 
covered from the outset.H has confirmed they have already replaced the gazebos and above ground pool. So NFU 
will need to reimburse these costs. 8% simple interest will also need to be added to the 
reimbursement from the date H paid the invoice to date of reimbursement.
H hasnt been able to afford to replace the marquee yet, so NFU will now also need to deal 
with this part of the claim by either replacing or paying to replace it, and in line with the 
remaining policy terms (including applicable policy limits and excesses).
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Pay the £200 compensation already offered if they havent already done so.
Reimburse the costs H incurred in replacing the gazebos and above ground pool.
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement from the date H paid the invoices to 
date of settlement.
Deal with the marquee part of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
*If The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell H how 
much its taken off. It should also give H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman