DRN-3201244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a cancellation claim 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have explained that in January 2020 they booked to go on holiday abroad, with 
them being due to depart on 22 July 2020. However, Mr and Mrs L have said they needed to 
cancel their holiday. 
Theyve explained they had to cancel the holiday, because of a change in the airline 
providers rules, which meant facemasks had to be worn for the entirety of their flight. Mr and 
Mrs L have explained that wearing a facemask wasnt possible for Mrs L. This was because 
she had a cough, that was exacerbated when a mask was worn. Mrs L has said the 
facemask made the situation unbearable, and she would be coughing for the whole flight 
with the mask on.
Mr and Mrs L had purchased non-refundable flights, and of course were unable to use the 
pre-booked accommodation. So, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy.
UKI looked into the claim and declined it. They said that Mr and Mrs Ls policy didnt provide 
cover to them in this situation. They said that Mrs Ls cough was under investigation, and 
that the policy specifically excluded claims where an illness or injury was under investigation. 
Mrs L had been referred to a respiratory clinic, and at the time of both purchasing the policy, 
and when Mr and Mrs L were due to go on holiday, she was awaiting tests.
Mr and Mrs L didnt feel this was fair. They said the cough itself wasnt the reason theyd had 
to cancel their holiday, but instead the charge in the airline rules around facemasks.
UKI maintained its position. So, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
the terms and conditions of the policy did exclude claims made where an illness or injury 
was under investigation. And she was satisfied that Mrs Ls cough had been under 
investigation  having seen a medical certificate from Mrs Ls GP, which noted the cough 
had started in August 2019, with medical advice being sought in October 2019. With 
investigations still ongoing in July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary, they said;
They understood the policy didnt provide cover where the claim was due to a 
medical issue under investigation. But, the reason for cancelling the holiday was due 
to a change in the rules around facemasks, not the cough itself.
With the need to wear facemasks on the flight, the trip theyd purchased had 
changed, as there wasnt a requirement to wear facemasks on the flight at the time 
they booked the holiday.
If they had known facemasks would need to be worn, then they wouldnt have 
booked the trip, given Mrs Ls cough.
The investigations into Mrs Ls cough hadnt concluded, because the investigations 
were delayed with relevant department, due to the Coronavirus pandemic. So, it 
wasnt fair for UKI to impose the term they were, given Mrs L simply couldnt 
complete the investigations before her holiday. 
Because Mr and Mrs L disagreed, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether UKI, in declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim, did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls policy documents, to see what cover it provides. And I can see 
the policy does have a section which covers the need to cancel a holiday, in certain 
circumstances. And one of these circumstances is the illness of the insured.  But like most 
policies of this nature, there are some exclusions to the cover. 
Under the cancellation section, the policy notes some exclusions. It says;
We wont pay for:
()
11. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
()
Medical condition under investigation.
And on page 18 of the policy booklet it explains what is meant by medical condition under 
investigation. This being any claim due to an illness or injury that is under investigation. 
Under investigation is defined in the policy as when you have been informed by your doctor 
that your symptoms require you to be referred for further tests or to a specialist to get a 
diagnosis.
Given the above, Im aware that the policy is clear in explaining that it wont cover claims, 
including cancellation claims, due to a medical condition that is being investigated. This isnt 
an unusual term in the policy. And Mr and Mrs L have highlighted they understand this 
exclusion is within their policy.
So, its now for me to consider whether UKI had acted fairly in saying that Mr and Mrs Ls 
cancellation claim was due to a medical condition under investigation. And I think it is.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have noted that it wasnt Mrs Ls cough that meant they needed to 
cancel their holiday. But instead the introduction of requirements to wear facemasks on the flight. But the reason Mrs L wasnt able to wear the facemask, and therefore able to board 
the flight, was because of cough she had, that was being looked into. But for the cough, Mrs 
L would have been able to wear the facemask and continue with the holiday. So, I do think 
UKI acted reasonably in noting that the reason the holiday was cancelled was due to the 
illness Mrs L was experiencing. 
Ive also thought about whether this illness was under investigation. And Im satisfied it was. 
Ive seen medical evidence, including the medical certificate completed by Mrs Ls GP, which 
explains that Mrs L started experiencing the cough in August 2019, first seeing the GP about 
it in October 2019. Following this, the certificate notes that Mrs L was referred for further 
investigations. So, at the time the holiday was booked in January 2020, I think Mrs L had a 
medical condition which was under investigation. Mrs L was due to have a test in May 
2020, but this was postponed by the clinic. And then was later postponed again. In the 
medical certificate, which is signed by the doctor in December 2020, it is explained that there 
was no diagnosis yet. Investigations still ongoing. 
Given the above, I am satisfied that the reason for the claim Mr and Mrs L made, was due a 
medical condition under investigation  both at the time the holiday was booked and at the 
time the holiday was due to take place. And so, I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on 
this policy exclusion when declining the claim. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs L have said the investigations were postponed as a result of the 
Coronavirus pandemic. And that does seem to be the case. But this means the cough was 
still under investigation, both when Mr and Mrs L took out their policy, and when they made 
their claim. And given Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy were clear, I dont 
think UKI has acted incorrectly in noting the exclusion applies here. And therefore in not 
settling the claim. 
Mr and Mrs L have also said that when they purchased their holiday, there was no 
requirement to wear a facemask on the flight. And that may have been the case. But I dont 
think this changes the outcome of the complaint. Even if I were to accept that the 
requirement to wear a facemask was the sole reason for the cancellation of the holiday (and 
that Mrs Ls medical condition was irrelevant), I dont think I could fairly ask UKI to accept 
this claim anyway. 
Any rule change in this regard isnt the responsibility of UKI, airline rule changes arent 
something that are covered as a listed, insured event under the cancellation section of 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy and so its not something I could find it accountable for. I understand 
there was no requirement to wear a facemask when Mr and Mrs L booked their holiday. But 
no insurance policy covers every situation and it would be extremely unusual for any travel 
insurance policy to provide cover for the cancellation of a holiday due to a reason such as 
this. 
So, I dont require UKI to do anything more in this respect. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman