DRN-2259929
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Europe Limited (Amex) made mistakes when 
processing a refund to his bank account.
What happened
Mr F cancelled a holiday booking and was refunded by the operator into his Amex credit 
card account. Mr F contacted Amex and asked for the refund to be sent to his bank account. 
Amex in error only sent back part of the refund and used the remaining balance to settle his 
outstanding statement balance. Mr F says he made a number of phone calls to Amex to try 
and resolve the matter which took time out of running his business. Mr F says he resolved 
the issue himself and asked Amex not to forward the remaining sum owed but they ignored 
his request and refunded the remaining amount due, creating more problems for him as a 
result.
Mr F wants Amex to adequately cover the time he spent dealing with the matter.
Amex have admitted they should have refunded the full amount due to Mr F at the outset 
and following this should not have refunded the remaining balance, as he instructed. Amex 
says they have paid £200 to recognise the inconvenience caused. Amex says Mr F wasnt 
impacted financially and the compensation paid was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says that Amex have corrected their mistake and Mr F hasnt suffered any 
financial loss as a result. The investigator felt the compensation paid was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint, given the mistakes made have been put right by Amex, I will 
consider whether the level of compensation awarded fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr F 
has suffered here. 
I can see that it would be frustrating for Mr F not to have received into his bank account,  the 
refund from the travel operator from Amex, as he asked. 
What happened here was Mr F received a refund into his Amex credit card account for a 
cancelled travel booking. Mr F contacted Amex and asked for the refund to be credited to his 
bank account so he could distribute the payment to his friends who were part of the booking. 
Amex, in error, only sent the residual balance of his credit card account after settling his 
outstanding balance and the next payment due on his credit card account. This resulted in 
Mr F making a series of phone calls to sort matters out and Amex  have accepted they made 
a mistake here and should have simply credited Mr Fs bank account with the full amount of 
the refund.  Subsequently Amex refunded Mr F with the remaining amount due even though 
he had asked them not to do so,  as hed made alternative arrangements, which led to 
another complaint.
I do see that Amex mistakes have inconvenienced Mr F, as he had to make various calls 
and an adjusting payment back to his Amex credit card account. That said there has been 
no financial loss here as Amex put Mr F back to a position he would have been before the 
event. 
I can see Mr F needed to make phone calls during a time he would ordinarily be working. 
From the information I have seen there is no evidence of actual loss to Mr F for the relatively 
short period between the adjusting payments being made to his bank account, as no 
charges were incurred, nor did Mr F have to borrow funds from other financial institutions to 
put matters right.
Amex have accepted they made mistakes and have apologised for this and paid Mr F £200 
by way of compensation. While Mr F feels that the compensation should reflect the time he 
spent away from his work, my role isnt to punish businesses but to award compensation for 
trouble and upset caused as a result of a genuine mistake and I am satisfied this is what 
happened here. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied that the compensation paid 
by Amex is fair and reasonable given the circumstances and I wont be asking anymore of 
them here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman