DRN-3454821
The complaint
Miss M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial
Services (BMWFS) mis-sold a finance agreement that she took out to acquire a used car
and didnt explain her termination options properly.
What happened
Miss M acquired this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) in March 2017. The 
finance agreement was set to run for four years and Miss M says she was led to believe it 
was a loan with a different name - she didnt realise it was a Personal Contract Purchase 
(PCP). She feels she wasnt given enough information at the outset to make an informed 
decision and she lost out financially when she returned the car because BMWFS didnt 
explain her options properly.
BMWFS says the terms and conditions of the finance were clearly presented. And Miss
M was provided with sufficient information, at the start and near the end of the agreement, to 
enable her to decide if she wanted to take out the finance and what to do on termination.
Our investigator considered the evidence and he wasnt persuaded that the HPA was mis-
represented or that BMWFS acted unfairly. He thought the HPA set out the terms and 
conditions, including the cost of borrowing, reasonably clearly. And he was satisfied that 
BMWFS also sent emails before the HPA was due to end highlighting termination options 
such as part-exchange, re-finance and keep or return the car. He considered Miss M was 
given enough information and it was her decision to hand the car back. And he didnt 
recommend BMWFS should have to do anything else. 
Miss M remained unhappy. She thinks the investigator simply accepted BMWFSs version of 
events. She feels she wasnt given enough information at the outset - she would have taken 
a lease if that had been offered  which would have allowed her to change vehicles every 12 
months. And she thought the finance was a loan, she didnt realise she could sell the car and 
use the sale proceeds to make the final balloon payment and she would have done so, if 
shed been told that was an option. 
Miss M thinks the car was worth about £7,000 when it was returned and the balloon payment 
was only around £3,000. She says no-one would return the car in that situation. She feels 
she was treated unfairly and she believes she lost several thousand pounds as a result. 
Shes also unhappy that BMWFS didnt do more to assist when the agreement was coming 
to an end - as she didnt understand her options and she was given incorrect information that 
caused financial disadvantage when she phoned BMWFS for advice. 
The investigator asked BMWFS for relevant call recordings but Miss M wasnt sure of the 
dates of her calls and these couldnt be supplied. The investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change his view. He didnt think BMWFS had done anything wrong and he wasnt persuaded 
that Miss M had lost out financially in any event - as theres no evidence to show she could 
have sold the car for more than the balloon payment. 
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and it was referred to me for a 
decision. Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt persuaded that the complaint 
should be upheld. My reasons were a bit different to the investigators however and Id seen 
some additional evidence. So, in the interests of fairness, I issued a provisional decision on 
5 April 2022 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and make further submissions 
(if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out (in italics) what I decided 
provisionally  and why  below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Miss M has strong feelings about this matter. I want to assure her that Ive
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every point raised
that doesnt mean I havent thought about it - I have. But, Im going to focus in this decision
on what I think are the key facts and issues necessary to reach a fair and reasonable
outcome. The rules that apply to our service allow me to do this and it reflects the informal
nature of the dispute resolution we provide.
I think the crux of Miss Ms complaint is twofold, in that, she feels she was misled at the
outset about how this sort of finance agreement works. Then, her end of contract options 
werent explained properly and/or she wasnt given the right information when she contacted 
BMWFS to discuss termination.
Was the HPA misrepresented ?
Im satisfied I can consider any negotiations that Miss M had with the dealer pre-contract
in this complaint against BMWFS under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
As far as I can tell the relevant discussions werent recorded, so I cant be certain what was
said exactly at the time. In this situation, I think its reasonable to look at the paperwork - as 
thats likely to provide the best evidence of what the parties agreed.
Ive read the finance agreement that Miss M signed. Im satisfied this document says it is a
HPA at the top of the first page. And I think it sets out, reasonably prominently, the price of 
the car, how much Miss M was borrowing and how much she had to pay back - as well as 
the size of her monthly repayments, the length of the agreement and how much she would 
have to pay to keep the car at the end.
I realise Miss M may say she didnt read the agreement in its entirety. But, I think its
reasonable to expect any borrower to check the key terms of a contract like this - even if
they dont read every single paragraph. Im satisfied Miss M signed to confirm that she 
received a demands and needs questionnaire on 11 March 2017. And it looks as if she also 
received a finance explanation document and other Pre-Contract Credit Information (PCCI) 
before she signed the HPA.
I think these documents highlight the key terms and conditions of the finance agreement  
which is commonly referred to as a PCP. This type of finance allows the borrower to make 
lower monthly payments by deferring a significant amount to be repaid in one lump sum (the 
balloon payment) at the end of the agreement. I note Miss M indicated (in the demands and 
needs paperwork) that her reason for choosing a PCP was budget. Im satisfied a PCP 
offered her some flexibility and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unsuitable for Miss M at 
the time.Based on the current evidence, Im not persuaded that Miss M should reasonably have
believed this agreement was a loan. I think it was made reasonably clear at the start that the
credit was provided by way of hire purchase - in the form of a PCP. For the reasons set out
above, I consider Miss M had enough information at the time to make an informed decision
about whether this was the right product for her. And Im not persuaded the finance was
misrepresented.
What happened when the finance ended ?
Finance agreements like this one can end in a variety of ways. I want to be clear about how
this agreement ended because I think theres been some confusion about that so far. 
Based on the information he had, our investigator thought the HPA had simply run its course 
and ended in March 2021. I didnt think that was right - because some of the information Id 
seen suggested the car was collected the month before. We asked BMWFS for more 
information and it confirmed that Miss M ended the agreement in February 2021 by way of a 
process known as voluntary termination (VT). 
Miss M was entitled to do this under section 99 of the CCA which provides (so far as its 
relevant)
(1) at any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire purchase or
regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be entitled to terminate the
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums payable
under the agreement. (2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect
any liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA goes on to set out the debtors liability on termination under section
99. This says (broadly speaking) BMWFS would be entitled to return of the car and at least
half of the total repayable under the agreement.
I can see that Miss M was told about her right to terminate the HPA early in this way in the
agreement terms and conditions under a section headed termination  your rights as 
follows:You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person 
you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the vehicle and to half 
the total amount payable under the agreement, that is £5,936. If you have already paid at 
least this amount plus any overdue instalments and taken reasonable care of the vehicle you 
will not have to pay any more.
And Im satisfied that BMWFS contacted Miss M a few months before the HPA was due to 
end to remind her that she needed to decide what she wanted to do. I can see BMWFS 
flagged up a number of options in this correspondence - which included paying the balloon 
to keep the car or handing the car back. And BMWFS also suggested Miss M should contact 
a dealer for more information or she could get in touch with BMWFS and she was supplied 
with various contact details to facilitate this.
Miss M told us she subsequently contacted BMWFS on the number supplied. And I 
understand she feels she was let down during this call because she didnt get the 
information she wanted. Miss M wasnt certain about the exact date of the relevant call but, 
from the information Ive got, I think it probably took place on 8 February 2021. Ive seen 
contact notes (that BMWFS supplied) which seem to be contemporaneous and in keeping 
with events. These show (insofar as its relevant) that Miss M spoke to BMWFS on 8 
February 2021 to say she was unhappy with the PCP. She requested a settlement quote 
which was provided and she exercised her right to VT and end the HPA. Its unfortunate that theres no recording of this call available. Ive spoken to Miss M however 
and she doesnt dispute that it was her decision to VT the HPA at this time. She told me 
shes unhappy because BMWFS didnt suggest (during the same call or earlier) that she 
could sell the car and/or refer her to a dealer near to her for more information. She 
acknowledged BMWFS supplied information about how to contact one particular dealer but 
she says this wasnt convenient for her. She moved after she acquired the car and she 
wanted BMWFS to give her information about a dealer closer to her current location.
Im looking at BMWFSs obligations arising out of the finance agreement in this decision. 
And, from the information I have at the moment, Im satisfied that BMWFS gave Miss M 
enough information to allow her to decide what to do in terms of ending the finance. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Miss M was misled about the termination process when she 
spoke to BMWFS. And I wouldnt expect BMWFS to provide information about the value of 
the vehicle or re-finance options in this situation  thats something Miss M would have 
needed to research for herself or discuss with a dealer. 
I appreciate Miss M was some distance from the dealer that supplied the car originally  the 
one BMWFS mentioned in correspondence. And I understand she thinks BMWFS should 
have referred her to a local affiliate instead. But, Im not persuaded BMWFS was required to 
provide that information. I think it was open to Miss M to contact the supplying dealer (whose 
details BMWFS had supplied) who might have been able to assist her notwithstanding the 
distance - or she could have undertaken her own enquiries locally to find a suitable dealer 
nearby.
I realise this is likely to disappoint Miss M but, for the reasons Ive given, Im not presently
persuaded that BMWFS did anything wrong here. I dont think there are sufficient fair and
reasonable grounds to uphold the complaint and I cant reasonably require BMWFS to do
anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
further evidence that theyd like me to consider before I made my final decision. The time set 
for further submissions has now passed. BMWFS hasnt responded. And Miss M remains of 
the view she didnt get the right information when she phoned and she was financially 
disadvantaged when the HPA ended. 
Neither party has provided any new evidence and nothing thats been said has persuaded 
me to change my mind. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. Im dont think BMWFS did anything wrong here. Im not satisfied there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. And I cant reasonably 
require BMWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Claire JacksonOmbudsman