DRN-4115255
The complaint
Mr W has complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy with esure in September 2022. Between September 
2022 and February 2023 Mr W paid a deposit and a monthly instalment. 
During the time he held the policy with esure, Mr W had asked for the payment date to be 
changed, which esure agreed to a couple of times. However, after agreeing to extend the 
date on the final ocassion, esure cancelled Mr Ws policy in February 2023 due to non-
payment of the premium. 
Mr W complained to esure. It upheld his complaint and offered to reinstate the policy - but 
due to the amount outstanding it asked Mr W to pay the full amount due. Mr W didnt agree 
to do this and bought a policy elsewhere. esure agreed to waive the balance Mr W owed on 
cancellation - which he would have otherwise had to pay for the time esure provided cover. 
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator agreed that 
esure had cancelled the policy unfairly when it had agreed to postpone the collection date of 
a premium. But he found that esures resolution to the complaint was reasonable. And so he 
didnt recommend esure should do any more. 
Mr W didnt agree. He says he was given incorrect information by esure and it caused him 
further inconvenience and financial difficulty in having to arrange another policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that esure cancelled Mr Ws policy in error. When things go wrong, we 
look at what the impact was and what an insurer did to put things right. 
Mr W was provided with insurance cover for the duration of the policy - so even if a claim 
wasnt made, esure provided indemnity for Mr W while the policy was in force. This means 
that Mr W owes the premium for the period of cover under the policy. 
esure offered to reinstate Mr Ws policy, but asked that he pay the premium in full. I cant say 
that this was an unreasonable offer in light of the fact that from September 2022 to February 
2023 Mr W paid a deposit of £257.79 followed by one instalment of £136.12. Mr W therefore 
owed a balance of £232.42 when esure cancelled his policy. But esure apologised for its 
error and waived this amount to resolve Mr Ws complaint for cancelling his policy. 
esure failed to change the collection date when it said it would, which led to the cancellation 
of Mr Ws policy. Ive no doubt this caused Mr W upset and inconvenience in arranging to a 
replacement policy. So for the error I would have awarded a compensation amount for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, had esure not offered anything to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint. 
However, as Ive explained, Mr W correctly owed a balance of £232.42 - but esure has 
waived this to resolve his complaint. In my view, this is a fair outcome and is more than the 
amount of compensation I would have awarded for the distress and inconvenience esure 
caused Mr W by its error. So Im not asking esure to do any more. I think esure has done 
enough to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman