DRN-4063366
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc has 
registered a CIFAS marker against it for evasion of payment.
Ts complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr B successfully applied to Co-op for a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
on Ts behalf, with the loan funds being received into Ts business current account (BCA) 
that same month. The terms of the BBL meant that T would become contractually required to 
begin making monthly payments to the loan in September 2021. However, Mr B later applied 
for a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) payment deferral option, which meant that Ts contractual 
requirement to begin making payments towards the BBL was put back until March 2022.
However, T didnt make any payment towards the BBL in March 2022. Mr B spoke to Co-op 
about this and explained that T was waiting for a large payment from a client which, when 
received, would be used to repay the BBL in full. 
A further BBL payment was missed by T in April 2022, meaning that the loan was now two 
months in arrears. Mr B spoke with Co-op about this again and reiterated that T was waiting 
for payment from a client and said that legal proceedings had been initiated by him on Ts 
behalf to recover the money that T was owed. Co-op explained to Mr B that they could 
consider providing T with a capital payment deferment plan, but that they would need to see 
evidence of the outstanding payment and ongoing legal action that Mr B had advised them 
of before doing so. 
Following this, Co-op didnt receive any contact from Mr B and further BBL payments were 
missed by T. This led to Co-op defaulting Ts BBL for non-payment and to apply a CIFAS 
marker against T. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Ts behalf.
Co-op responded to Mr B and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
defaulting Ts account or by applying the CIFAS marker as they had. Mr B wasnt satisfied 
with Co-ops response, so he referred Ts complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt Co-op had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so Ts complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr B has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Ts 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr B for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr B notes that I havent addressed specific points that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered those points  I can confirm that Ive 
read and considered all the submissions provided by both T and Co-op. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint. Mr B should 
also refer to comments on those points that hes received from our investigator, with whom I 
can confirm Im in agreement with regarding those points. 
For a BBL application to have been successful, the applicant business must have self-
declared that it met the BBL eligibility criteria set out by the British Business Bank, who 
administered the scheme. 
Under the rules of the BBL scheme, an applicant had to have been carrying on business 
prior to 1 March 2020 and could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover  up to a 
maximum amount of £50,000  for which the 2019 calendar years turnover was to be used. 
If the applicant had only been established after 1 January 2019, then the applicant could 
provide an estimate of projected annual turnover in support of its application  from the date 
it started business.
When Mr B applied to Co-op for a BBL in Ts behalf, he declared that T had annual income 
of over £250,000. This meant that T qualified for a BBL of £50,000  the maximum 
borrowing permitted by the scheme  and T received £50,000 into its BCA following its 
successful application.
But while lenders such as Co-op werent expected to verify the accuracy of the information 
self-declared by businesses such as T at the point of application, they are expected and 
entitled to confirm the accuracy of the information declared in BBL applications on an ad-hoc 
basis now that the scheme is closed to new applicants. 
In this instance, following the conversations that Co-op held with Mr B about Ts failure to 
meet its repayment commitments towards the BBL, Co-op have developed concerns about 
the accuracy of the information declared on Ts BBL application. Specifically, Co-op note that 
Ts annual accounts appear to show that T hasnt traded and has zero annual turnover  
which is in obvious contradiction to the £250,000 annual turnover that Mr B declared on Ts 
BBL application.
Mr B has explained that T was dormant until late 2019, and that because of this he used Ts 
estimated turnover in the BBL application, as was permitted by the BBL scheme rules. But 
as explained above, the scheme rules only allow estimated turnover to be used if the 
business was established after 1 January 2019, and T was established in 2017.
Additionally, it also appears that when T received the BBL funds, some of the money was 
transferred to Mr Bs personal bank account while other money was used to purchase items 
for another company owned by Mr B  neither of which are permitted by the scheme rules. 
And while Mr B referenced the payment to his own account as being a payment of his salary, Ts annual accounts for the time that Mr B made this payment dont show any trading or 
turnover or declare any salary paid to Mr B  as the sole director of T.
Ultimately, despite benefitting from the twelve-month payment deferral period that was a 
feature of the BBL scheme, as well as from a further six-month deferral period provided by 
the PAYG option, T hasnt made any payments towards the BBL. 
Given the actions and events which Ive described in the preceding paragraphs, I dont feel 
that it was unreasonable for Co-op to have concerns about Ts BBL. And I dont feel it was 
unreasonable for Co-op to want evidence of the money T was expecting to receive and the 
legal proceedings T had initiated to try to recover that money before committing to providing 
T with further payment deferral options on the BBL.
But Mr B didnt provide the evidence of the interactions hed had with the company that owed 
T money or of the legal action hed initiated on Ts behalf. And T continued to not make the 
payments that were contractually required of it on the BBL. Because of this, Im satisfied it 
wasnt unfair for Co-op to issue the formal demand to T and to later default Ts BBL for non-
payment. And Im also satisfied it wasnt unfair for Co-op to apply the CIFAS marker to Ts 
record. This is because I feel that its reasonable for Co-op to have concluded, from the 
actions of Mr B and T as described above, that T has evaded making BBL payments. 
Mr B denies that he failed to contact Co-op on Ts behalf after the conversation in April 2022, 
and hes provided letters to this service dated 17 June and 2 November 2022 which he says 
were sent to Co-op but not responded to. And Mr B has also explained that he tried to call 
Co-op on several occasions but was unable to get through because of long hold times. 
Co-op dont have any record of receiving these letters from Mr B. And while I can appreciate 
there may have been long hold times when Mr B tried to call Co-op, this doesnt exonerate 
Mr B of his responsibility to contact Co-op on Ts behalf. He could have done this either by 
continuing to hold on those calls, by visiting a Co-op branch, or by emailing Co-op using the 
email address that Mr B had successfully contacted Co-op on previously, but which he 
appears not have utilised in this instance. In short, I dont feel that Mr B did make a 
reasonable effort to contact Co-op as he claims.
Finally, Mr B has said that he feels that Co-op have discriminated against him because of he 
has a foreign surname. Having looked at all the evidence here, I dont feel that that Co-op 
have done so. Nor do I think that Co-op has acted unreasonably or unfairly. Indeed, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Co-ops actions here arent reasonably justified by the events 
that have taken place, or that such actions wouldnt be taken by Co-op against other 
businesses under similar circumstances. I hope it helps Mr B to know that someone 
independent and impartial has considered this aspect of his complaint.
All of which means that I dont feel that Co-op have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any 
action. I trust that Mr B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman