DRN-1872768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited led them to believe they would 
be able to draw down in excess of a further £100,000 on their lifetime mortgage. They made 
financial decisions based on this, and as a result lost out when Aviva was only willing to lend 
less than £40,000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. They had put their property up for sale in 
2015 but decided not to sell, though they had an offer for around £735,000. Since then, they 
have discovered that the property was  until around seventy years ago  more extensive 
than it is now. They applied for and were granted planning permission to reinstate the 
original design, though they havent carried out any works.
Mr and Mrs G have experienced some financial difficulty and have been relying on their 
credit cards and other short term lending. They have again decided to downsize. Their 
estate agent advised them to market the property for £1.25million. They decided to borrow 
more money on their lifetime mortgage to clear their other debts and make their outgoings 
more affordable in the short term.
In July 2018, Mr G called Aviva. He asked how much more he would be able to borrow. 
Based on his estimate of the propertys worth, Aviva said he would be able to borrow up 
almost £140,000. Mr G says he didnt expect to receive the full amount quoted, but thought 
he would be entitled to at least £100,000  and took financial decisions accordingly.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs G formally applied for further borrowing. Aviva appointed a surveyor to 
value the property. The surveyor said it was worth £850,000. Based on that figure, Aviva 
was willing to offer Mr and Mrs G less than £40,000. Mr and Mrs G took this borrowing, but 
complained theyd suffered a loss by relying on the higher figure.
Aviva offered them compensation of around £750 - £250 for delays in responding to their 
complaint, plus a refund of the valuation fee. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept that. They wanted 
Aviva to lend them the full amount they were expecting and compensate them for their 
losses from not receiving it in 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr G was given a guarantee of what Aviva would lend when he spoke to an 
adviser in 2018. Their conversation was about what he would, in principle, be able to borrow 
as a further advance on his lifetime mortgage. But I think it was made clear to him that it was 
an in principle discussion, based on his estimate of the propertys worth  and that Aviva 
would carry out its own valuation to decide what the property was worth and use that as the 
basis for deciding what it was actually willing to lend. I dont think Mr G was given any 
guarantees, and I dont think he was promised that Aviva would accept his valuation.Mr G has provided a marketing appraisal from his estate agent. This suggests marketing the 
property at £1.25million  but explicitly states that this is an asking price, not a valuation. But 
Avivas surveyor valued the property at £850,000  and thats the figure it used in deciding 
how much to lend.
I think Mr Gs right that the difference between his estimate and the valuation is based, at 
least in part, on the fact that hes got planning permission to reinstate the full original house, 
but hasnt done so. Its well known that planning permission can make a property more 
attractive to a potential buyer. Thats because the buyer knows that there are works that can 
be done to improve the property and increase its value  and that they will definitely be 
permitted to carry out those works.
However, uplifting a valuation because of planning permission is doing so because of the 
buildings potential  not because of the actual current state of the property.
When lending a mortgage, the lender does so because it has the security of a charge over 
the property. Because a lifetime mortgage involves interest rolling up over possibly many 
years or decades, and because theres a no negative equity guarantee, the loan to value is 
crucial in reaching a lending decision  even more so than with a standard mortgage. I dont 
think its unreasonable to take into account the actual condition of the property rather than its 
future potential  which might never be realised  in reaching the valuation used to decide 
the loan to value.
Aviva instructed an independent professional qualified surveyor. That surveyor inspected the 
property and gave their professional opinion as to its value. Aviva was entitled to rely on that 
professional opinion in making its decision about how much to lend. It did that. And while the 
adviser Mr G spoke to in 2018 didnt explicitly set out the basis on which a valuation would 
be done, it was made clear that the lending figures discussed were an in principle figure 
based on Mr Gs estimate  but any actual loan would be based on Avivas valuation. I dont 
think Mr and Mrs G were misled about how Aviva would make that decision, and I dont think 
its to blame if they made financial decisions before making an application and receiving a 
firm offer. I note Aviva made an offer of compensation when they first complained; I think 
thats a fair offer and I dont ask Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that the settlement offer Aviva Equity Release 
UK Limited has already made is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont require 
it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman