DRN-2292488
The complaint
Mr P complains that Dudley Building Society (DBS) wont pay him the money showing in an 
old passbook hes recently rediscovered.
What happened
Mr P said hed recently come across a passbook for an account with DBS that hed forgotten 
about. He said the account was opened on 21 January 1985, and had £2,000 in it. He 
wanted DBS to pay him this money, with interest, but he said that DBS told him the account 
was closed, and information is not held beyond 6 years of account closure.
Mr P said that the passbook shows the account has never been closed, it has an opening 
balance of £2,000 with no other entries. He said that even if DBS had written to him about 
the account, he wouldnt have received any of the letters because he had moved a little over 
three years after the account was opened. 
Mr P wanted us to help him get the money from the account, and the interest it had earned 
since being deposited.
DBS said it didnt hold any active records for Mr P. And that meant that the account hadnt 
been open for at least six years. It said that if this account had been closed some years ago, 
it wouldnt expect to still have information about the account. DBS has changed its data 
systems twice since this account was opened. And each time it would only transfer data 
across for accounts that were open, or had been closed within the last six years. DBS said 
that it had procedures in place every time it did this to make sure no accounts were just 
missed. It was confident that it wouldnt have left Mr Ps records off the current system 
unless the account had been closed more than six years ago. 
DBS said that unfortunately it couldnt tell Mr P anything about when the account was closed 
or money taken out, because it was so long ago. But it didnt think that Mr Ps passbook was 
evidence that the account was still open. It said it is possible that the passbook could have 
previously been reported lost and a replacement issued which recorded any other 
transactions, and the account being closed. DBS said it would issue a new passbook if 
someones old one was lost.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that just because the 
passbook shows a balance, that doesnt mean the account is still open. The passbook is
simply a snapshot of the account at that point in time.
Our investigator said DBS had set out circumstances in which withdrawals could be made 
without a passbook being presented. So just because this passbook doesnt show the 
account was closed, doesnt mean it hasnt been closed. 
Our investigator understood that Mr P expected DBS to be able to provide information on his 
account, no matter the age. But building societies arent required to hold records indefinitely. 
Generally they are only held for six years, in line with data protection laws.
DBS has confirmed no records of Mr Ps account can be found, even on the dormant 
account register. So the account must have been closed more than six years ago.
Our investigator said he didnt think DBS had made any error. And he wouldnt ask it to 
repay the amount shown in the passbook. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said we were implying that he had a duplicate passbook which he 
must have used to withdraw money from the account. He said he only had one passbook, 
and we had no evidence otherwise. He repeated that hed forgotten he had the account until 
April 2019. 
Mr P said he had been able to give us more paperwork than DBS, who had only said that 
records are only kept for six years so he must have closed his account. He didnt think he 
should be penalised for DBS poor record keeping and failure to transfer previous paper 
records to the electronic record keeping system. 
Mr P wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr P has recently rediscovered his passbook, but he says hed just forgotten about the 
account, and this was the only passbook hed ever had. He says this passbook is evidence 
that the account is still open.
I know Mr Ps passbook doesnt tell us that the account has been closed. But building 
societies will still allow an account to be closed without the passbook being marked up or 
handed in. They have to do that. Passbooks can get lost or damaged or stolen. The bank or 
building society doesnt get to keep the money when that happens. The money still has to be 
given to the account holder. So I think that this account could have been closed even though 
this passbook doesnt show that.
I realise that Mr P strongly believes that the account hasnt been closed. He says DBS 
shouldnt just be able to say it cant find the account, and that this account may have been 
closed some time ago, so it wont have records. He thinks that DBS shouldve kept records 
for this account. And in the absence of those records, proving whats happened to his 
money, he thinks DBS should honour the account.
Mr P says hes being penalised for DBS poor record keeping. I dont think thats quite right. 
I would expect DBS to still have records for this account if it was open, or dormant. But I 
wouldnt expect DBS to still have records for this account now, if it had been closed. Quite 
the reverse. Our investigator has explained to Mr P that banks and building societies arent 
supposed to keep hold of personal information forever. They arent supposed to just hang on 
to information in case it might be helpful in future. They arent supposed to keep information 
if they dont have a business need for it. 
The last records we have of this account are from over thirty years ago. So I dont think its 
surprising, if this account was closed some time ago, that DBS doesnt still have a record of 
this now. I know we cant say for sure what happened to this account. But, although I realise that Mr P 
wont agree with me, I just dont think that this account still being open is what is most likely 
to have happened in this case. 
I think DBS has done all I would expect in searching for the account. Because it cant find it, 
and because theres nothing else to suggest that the account is still open now, or indeed has 
been open since the mid-eighties, I think it is more likely that the account was closed. 
I understand how strongly Mr P feels about this, so I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I 
dont think that his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman