DRN-2135249
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc incorrectly marked card payments as pending, 
leaving her short of money. Bank of Scotland trades in this case under its Halifax brand.
What happened
At the end of September 2019 Mrs C was due to make payments to two lenders. The 
payments were to be made under a continuous payment authority using the card linked to 
her Halifax account. 
Mrs C received confirmation of payment from each lender, but noticed that she had no 
available funds in her Halifax account. This was because there were pending payments to 
the same lenders she had just paid. 
Only one payment was made to each lender, and the pending payments were returned to 
Mrs Cs account about a week later. In the meantime, however, her available balance on the 
account was reduced and, Mrs C says, she was unable to honour other payments that were 
due; in one case she incurred fees as a result. She says she had to borrow from family. 
When Mrs C contacted Halifax about what had happened, it said that it had done nothing 
wrong. Payments such as these were triggered by the payees. Since the second payments 
hadnt been made, it couldnt have challenged them. The loan companies too said they 
hadnt acted in error. They both said that they had requested only one payment but had 
been told that there had been problems with Halifax. 
Mrs C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. He concluded that the loan companies must have requested the payments in 
error; they hadnt been instigated by Halifax. Mrs C pointed to the explanations given by the 
loan companies, suggesting the error was the banks and commenting that it was unlikely 
that both companies would have made the same error at the same time in requesting a 
duplicate payment. She asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C has pointed out, theres no suggestion here that she is in any way at fault for what 
has happened in this case. She set up the instructions allowing the loan companies to take 
payments from her Halifax account using her card details. Thats a fairly common 
arrangement, which means that the customer doesnt need actively to make payments once 
the arrangement has been set up. 
Both loan companies said that they did nothing wrong. They only asked for the payment that 
was due to them and didnt duplicate that request. One said that it had been advised that 
there was a payment problem with Halifax; the other said it had been told that there was an 
issue with customer banks  suggesting a wider problem affecting customers other than Mrs 
C and banks other than Halifax. Neither said what the source of their information was. 
On balance, therefore, I think it unlikely that the loan companies were at fault here. I agree 
with Mrs C that its most unlikely that both would have requested the payment twice at the 
same time. 
Equally, however, Im not persuaded that Halifax was responsible for a second payment 
apparently being requested. The payments were made under a continuous payment 
authority in each case. That payment was triggered by a request made to the card issuer (in 
this case, Halifax). It wasnt initiated by Halifax, and all it could do was to respond to the 
requests it appeared to have received; in this case that meant ring-fencing funds and then 
releasing them when it was apparent that no further payment was due.
It seems likely in this case therefore that the issue was the result of a wider issue, not 
because of any error on the part of Halifax. That appears from the explanation of one of the 
loan companies, which suggested an issue with customer banks (not just with Halifax). I 
appreciate that this has had an effect on Mrs Cs finances, and that it will have caused her 
both inconvenience and some worry. But I accept the banks explanation that this was 
outside its control, and so I dont believe it would be fair to require Halifax to make good Mrs 
Cs losses or otherwise to compensate her.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman