DRN-3055993
The complaint
Miss W, Mrs W and Mr W complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned 
down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
As Mrs W is the main correspondent, Ive mainly referred to her throughout this decision for 
ease of reading.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs W booked a package holiday abroad. She and her family were due 
to travel between 29 August and 5 September 2020. She took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy through a broker on 13 March 2020, to cover the holiday. When Mrs W took 
out the insurance, she declared a number of medical conditions for both herself and other 
members of her family, which URV agreed to cover.
On 30 March 2020, Mrs W received a letter from the NHS which explained that due to her 
medical conditions, she was at very high risk of severe illness if she caught Covid-19. The 
letter advised her to shield. So on 6 April 2020, Mrs W cancelled the trip and made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy.
URV turned down Mrs Ws claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover 
Mrs Ws situation and that it specifically excluded claims relating to a policyholders 
disinclination to travel.
Mrs W was unhappy with URVs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mrs W fairly. She noted that the policy didnt 
cover claims if a policyholder travelled against medical advice. In this case, Mrs W had been 
told by the NHS not to travel. And she also noted that Mrs W had declared all of her medical 
conditions to URV, which had agreed to cover them. So she felt it would be fair for URV to 
treat Mrs Ws claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy and she 
recommended that it should reconsider the claim.
URV didnt provide a detailed response to our investigator. Instead it said it would await an 
ombudsmans decision. So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think URV has treated Miss W, Mrs W and Mr W fairly. Ill explain 
why.
Relevant Regulatory Rules 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business) say that a firm should 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It 
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle 
of the service being provided. 
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
The Policy Terms 
So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mrs Ws policy and the available 
medical evidence to decide whether URV treated her fairly. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy, as these form the basis of 
the contract with URV. As theres no dispute that Mrs W and her family cancelled their trip, I 
think the relevant section of the contract is If you are unable to go on your Trip. This says 
that URV will pay up to £5000 of a policyholders prepaid, irrecoverable cancellation costs if 
theyre unable to travel for one of the following reasons:
- You or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts;
-A close relative or business associate in your home country is ill, injured or dies 
before the trip starts;
-The person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts;
-You are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law;
-You or a travel companion have been made redundant;
-Because of the requirements of HM Forces.
I appreciate that on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office had 
advised all but essential travel abroad due to Covid-19. And that on 23 March 2020, the UK 
government had imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement, which were commonly 
referred to as lockdown.
But in my view, it was Mrs Ws concern about the high risk Covid-19 posed to her if she 
contracted it which was the main reason and her family decided to cancel their trip. I say that 
because Mrs W has provided us with a copy of the shielding letter she received from the 
NHS. This specifically directed Mrs W to stay at home, not to travel and identified her as 
being at severe risk if she caught Covid-19. This letter was dated 30 March 2020. And I can 
see that Mrs W didnt cancel her holiday until after shed received this letter, rather than 
immediately following the change in FCDO advice or the imposition of lockdown. I find this 
persuasive evidence that it was the medical advice she received against travel which led to 
the decision to cancel the holiday.     
Having looked carefully at the policy terms, I can see that cancellation due to a medical 
practitioner advising against travel isnt something the policy covers. So I agree that on a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Miss W, Mrs W and Mr Ws claim simply isnt covered 
by the terms of their contract. 
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances? 
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application 
produces an unfair result. Thats the case here. I say that because the policy also includes a 
list of things that URV specifically excludes from cover. One of these says;Any claim where you have travelled against the advice of your doctor or a medical 
professional such as your dentist.
So in this case, if Mrs W and her family had taken their trip as planned, its likely theyd have 
been travelling against specific NHS advice. Even though the shielding programme itself had 
been ended by the time Mrs W was due to travel, NHS advice was still to maintain rigorous 
social distancing and minimise contact with others from outside of their household. I think 
this means then that its likely Mrs W would still have been advised against travelling abroad. 
As a result, I think that the policy wouldve been invalidated and Mrs W and her family 
wouldnt have been entitled to under cover at all under the policy, under any section. 
As such, if Mrs W and her family had travelled abroad, despite NHS advice, it seems their 
policy wouldve been of no value to them whatsoever. In effect then, Mrs W was left in a 
position where she wasnt covered if she travelled when the NHS had told her not to and she 
wasnt covered if she cancelled the trip. And in my view, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
- in the circumstances of this case  for Mrs W to have no cover when she was left with no 
option but to cancel the trip following the receipt of the shielding letter. 
I appreciate it doesnt look like Mrs Ws trip was cancelled due to an exacerbation of one of 
her conditions. But medical professionals thought these conditions put her at high risk of 
illness if shed travelled. And I note that Mrs W had declared these conditions to URV, which 
had agreed to cover them. Shed also paid an additional medical premium. 
I think then that its fair to conclude that Mrs Ws claim did, in effect, arise from conditions 
which URV had agree to accept, albeit indirectly. So overall, in these particular 
circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for URV to consider Miss W, Mrs 
W and Mr Ws cancellation claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG consider Miss W, Mrs W and Mr Ws cancellation claim, 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W, Mrs W 
and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman