DRN-2722824
The complaint
Mr G makes a number of complaints about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco 
Bank.
What happened
Mr G complains that he has been charged interest on his credit card account despite the 
agreement allowing him up to a 56 days interest free period. He also complains that Tesco 
doesnt allow communication via e-mail and about the confusing names it uses. Mr G says 
Tesco has acted illegally and says its interest rate is too high. He would like the interest he 
has paid refunded.
Tesco says its terms and conditions and credit card statements make clear that to avoid 
interest the full statement balance must be repaid each month and the interest charges 
depends if the previous monthly balance was repaid. It doesnt accept making a mistake and 
says its up to it to decide how to communicate with its customers.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Tesco had fairly explained to Mr G how he could avoid paying interest and that it 
was made clear that interest would be charged if a pervious balance wasnt repaid. The 
investigator thought it up to Tesco to decide how it communicates and how it used its name.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and maintains the statements make clear he is entitled to a 
maximum 56 days before interest is charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
this complaint.
I make clear that we are not Tescos regulator and so its not our role to interfere in what I 
think are its commercial business decisions on how it communicates with its customers and 
how it uses its name. I also make clear that we are not an auditing service and so its not our 
role to check, as in this case, Tescos interest calculations. But I make clear that I have not 
seen any evidence to suggest Tesco has made a mistake in how its calculated the interest 
Mr G has paid.
The key issue here is the interest free period. I have looked carefully at Mr Gs account 
statements and Im satisfied that its made clea,r that to avoid interest then a monthly 
balance must be cleared in full by a given date and the previous months balance must have 
been paid off in full. I have looked at the statements and can see there have been occasions 
that Mr G hasnt repaid a balance in full by the given date and so in those circumstances Im 
satisfied Tesco, in line with the agreement, was entitled to charge interest. It follows that I 
dont think Tesco has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco has dealt fairly with Mr Gs complaint and has explained why 
the interest was charged. I think Mr G would have agreed to the interest rate when the 
account was opened and when he agreed to the account terms and conditions. If Mr G was 
unhappy with the interest rate, then I would have expected him to have raised it at the time 
or not opened the account. I appreciate Mr G says Tesco has acted illegally but that is not 
something I can fairly conclude, and it would be for a court to make such a finding. For those 
reasons I cant fairly order Tesco refund the interest and I also think this brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this case informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman