DRN-1790484
 
The complaint
Ms C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined her claim 
for critical illness benefit unfairly.
What happened
In 2001, Ms C took out a whole of life policy with Royal London. Her policy included critical 
illness benefit.
Unfortunately, Ms C  developed serious liver problems. By 2014, she was diagnosed with 
primary biliary cirrhosis and had a TIPS (transjugular intrahepatic portal shunt) put through 
her liver to relieve the symptoms and consequences of portal hypertension. Ms C was told it 
was highly likely she would need a liver transplant, but she decided not to proceed with a 
transplant. She said a liver transplant would not be a cure for her, as she suffers from an 
autoimmune condition that means her autoimmune system would possibly attack a new 
transplanted liver until her illness deteriorates. 
In 2018, Ms C contacted Royal London to make a claim for critical illness benefit on her 
policy. Royal London declined her claim in May 2019, saying she could not make a claim for 
a major organ transplant. It wouldnt consider a claim for angioplasty, because, whilst        
Ms C had a TIPS procedure that might be considered as angioplasty, Ms Cs policy only 
provided cover for angioplasty for heart conditions. Ms C appealed Royal Londons decision, 
and provided a letter from her consultant in liver medicine, which said Ms C should consider 
a liver transplant. Royal Londons decision remained unchanged because Ms C was not on 
an offical UK waiting list for a liver transplant.  
Ms C complained to Royal London about its decision to decline her claim, but its decision 
remained unchanged for the reasons it explained previously. Unhappy with its response, Ms 
C referred her complaint about Royal London to our service to review.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Royal Londons decision to decline Ms Cs claim was reasonable because she didnt 
meet the policys definition of major organ transplant or angioplasty. Our investigator said 
a claim for a major organ transplant would only become payable once an individual has 
undergone a transplant or is on an official UK waiting list, and Ms C did not meet this criteria. 
Ms C didnt accept the investigators view of her complaint for the reasons shed explained 
previously, so its been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to say how sorry I am to read of Ms Cs illness and recognise that her complaint 
has been made in difficult circumstances. The question for me to decide here is whether Royal Londons decision to decline Ms Cs claim for critical illness benefit was a reasonable 
one.
Ms Cs policy doesnt provide critical illness cover for every serious or life-threatening illness. 
Instead, the list of critical illnesses covered by Ms Cs policy are listed in her policy document 
 and it does not include liver failure or disease. I understand Ms Cs disappointment that 
liver failure or disease is not covered by her policy, but Royal London was entitled to decide 
which critical illnesses its prepared to cover for and isnt obliged to cover illnesses not 
named as covered by the policy.
Ms Cs policy does cover major organ transplants and angioplasty. Angioplasty is only 
covered if for coronary heart disease. Ms Cs TIPS was fitted because of her liver problems, 
so I dont think angioplasty is a relevant condition Ms C could claim for. The only other 
relevant critical illness Ms C may be eligible to claim for is a major organ transplant, which 
is defined as:
The actual undergoing as a recipient of, or inclusion on an official UK waiting list for, a 
transplant of a heart, liver, lung, pancreas or bone marrow.
Certain serious illnesses or injuries can result in the need to replace an organ or 
tissue. Unless a suitable organ is immediately available, the patient is normally put on 
a Health Authority waiting list until the transplant can be made.
I think the policy is clear that Ms C can only make a successful claim for a liver transplant if 
shes already had one or is on an official UK waiting list for a transplant. Ms C has explained 
her reasons for not wanting to go ahead with a transplant, which I sympathise with. But it 
remains that she wasnt on an official UK waiting list at the time of Avivas decision to decline 
her claim, so I dont think she meets the policys definition of major organ transplant. It 
follows that I think Royal Londons decision to decline her claim on this basis was a 
reasonable one.
Of course, Ms Cs circumstances may change. If she is placed on an official UK waiting list 
for a liver transplant, or undergoes one, whilst her policy remains in place, she should make 
a further claim to Royal London for it to consider afresh. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman