DRN-2432053
The complaint
Mr T says Coutts & Company (Coutts) misled his understanding that the Offshore 
Investment Bond (OIB) it recommended to him in 2011 allowed for the accumulation of 
gains during its lifetime and then for such gains to be subject to deferred Income Tax (IT) 
upon future liquidation and repatriation to the UK. 
He followed the recommendation and says he learnt during a 2018 withdrawal event that he 
had been misled; that the deferred IT applied to both capital and any gains in the OIB, not 
only to the gains; and that this applied either at the point of the OIBs liquidation or whenever 
a withdrawal from it above 5% is made in a year; as such, he incurred an unexpected tax 
liability when he made a withdrawal above 5% in 2018.
In addition, he says there is evidence of Coutts conceding that the OIB would not benefit a 
high rate tax payer, so the OIB was unsuitable for him as he was a high rate tax payer when 
it was recommended to him.
What happened
Coutts disputes the complaint. In the main it says:
Relevant context is that at the time of the recommendation Mr T was a retired 
professional with a senior level finance background; because of that and because of 
his significant previous investment experience he was very knowledgeable about 
investments; he was also a high net worth individual; at the time of advice the end of 
a particular dividend income, on which he lived, was foreseeable; and with specific 
regard to the OIB recommendation, his objective was to allocate £2.5 million 
(subsequently reduced to £2 million) into an investment that provided him with 
growth, long-term (and indefinite) tax efficient income and investment flexibility.
The OIB matched his objective and his overall investor profile. It was suitable for him.
Its understanding of Mr Ts complaint is that he alleges unawareness that the OIBs 
gains were subject to deferred IT  as opposed to Capital Gains Tax (CGT); and 
that he questions why he was recommended the OIB instead of an onshore bond.
There is no evidence that it told Mr T the OIB was subject to deferred CGT treatment, 
all evidence shows it explained to him that it was subject to deferred IT. In addition, 
he had experience of the application of IT to the OIB during an earlier withdrawal 
event in February 2016 when he was advised by his Coutts Wealth Manager that IT 
could apply to the withdrawal.
Mr T had a personal purpose for which he made a significant withdrawal in 2018; that 
purpose was not discussed with Coutts and he made his own decision, without 
advice from Coutts, to proceed with the withdrawal; for the 2016 withdrawal Coutts 
had and used a specific and detailed advisory template to guide him on withdrawal 
options and to protect him from the adverse tax consequences of taking withdrawals 
in the wrong manner; he had the benefit of that experience in 2018 and should have 
applied the same approach to avoid the tax liability he has complained about.
Mr T had previous experience of investing in an onshore bond; in 2011 he continued 
to hold an onshore bond he had invested in since 2009; beyond that, he also had 
wider significant wealth in investments and cash; there was no contemplation that the 
OIB would be used for anything other than growth, tax efficient lifetime income and 
flexible investing; an onshore bond did not provide the lifetime tax efficiency the OIB 
gave and did not provide the investment flexibility he wanted; an onshore bond could 
be a suitable choice where full liquidation is likely within 20 years, but beyond that an 
OIB is the recognised preferred choice; the former was not a relevant consideration 
for Mr T because the lifetime basis for his objective was likely to exceed 20 years, 
given his personal profile at the time; so the latter was more relevant and was 
suitable for him; furthermore the foreseeable loss of dividend income was likely to 
reduce his IT rate, which stood to benefit the deferred IT element of the OIB.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She shared, broadly, the same reasons as those given by Coutts. Mr T disagreed 
with this outcome and made the following points:
His complaint has been misunderstood, he does not claim unawareness of the 
application of deferred IT to the OIB and he does not say he expected deferred CGT 
instead; his complaint is that Coutts advised him that the deferred IT treatment 
applied  at the relevant withdrawal or liquidation events  only to gains within the 
OIB, he was not told and was not aware that it also applied to capital within the OIB; 
it is in this respect that Coutts misled him and there is evidence in the documentation 
associated with the 2011 advice that information on tax treatment is given only in the 
context of gains.
Coutts recommendation should have included clear notice/warning that if there was 
any reasonable likelihood of requiring any part of the capital within 20 years the OIB 
was an unsuitable investment because the tax treatment made it less efficient than 
an onshore bond in such circumstances.
Coutts expressly concedes  in its letter of 6 September 2018  that the OIB was 
unsuitable for a high rate tax payer and instead an onshore bond would be suitable; 
the implication being that the OIB was an unsuitable recommendation for him 
because Coutts knew he was a high rate tax payer when it was recommended to 
him. Coutts should provide clients with meaningful illustration in this respect, in order 
to address the circumstances in which each type of bond is suitable.
The investigator did not change her view and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tax Treatment of Mr Ts OIB
Overall and on the balance of available evidence, I do not accept the claim that Mr T was 
misinformed about how and/or when deferred tax was to be applied to his OIB. He has 
referred to evidence which supports his somewhat narrow argument about how the words 
used by Coutts in literature associated with its 2011 recommendation described the tax 
treatment in the context of the OIBs gains. However, this does not automatically amount to 
the misrepresentation that has been alleged.
The contents of Coutts advice letter to him in 2016  for the 2016 withdrawal he made from 
the OIB  are relevant. The way in which tax treatment of the OIB was explained to him and 
addressed in this letter was not limited to the notion of gains within the OIB. The explanation 
was in the context of the value of the OIB as a whole (which would include capital and any 
gains within it). Mr T was told that The tax consequences of the encashment will depend on 
the type of withdrawal selected. There was no reference in this statement, or in the contents around it, to gains. The implication arising from the statement is that tax treatment depends 
on the method of withdrawal from the OIB.
The key features document for the OIB describes a tax chargeable event, with regards to 
partial surrenders or regular withdrawals, in the context of the 5% per policy year allowance 
(and any relevant cumulative allowance in this respect) and it says A chargeable event only 
occurs when regular withdrawals or partial surrenders from individual policies exceed the 
relevant cumulative allowance. The 2011 recommendations letter sent to Mr T lists this 
document as part of its enclosures, so it appears to have been given to him at the time. The 
description above does not distinguish between tax liability for capital and for gains. It refers 
to a tax chargeable event arising upon the size of withdrawals from the policies of the OIB, 
without such a distinction.
The recommendations letter adopts a similar approach. In the main it refers to the Coutts 
literature that Mr T has cited to show the expressions he says were misleading, but it also 
makes some statements about tax treatment of the OIB which are made in the context of the 
OIB as a whole  without any suggestion that a distinction was to be drawn between capital 
and gains.
Overall and on balance, I consider that the quotes in Coutts literature for the OIB which Mr T 
has highlighted could have been more carefully worded but I am not persuaded that they 
misled him. The advice he received should be viewed as a whole and it included the 2011 
documents I have mentioned above, and their contents were re-affirmed in the 2016 advice 
he received from Coutts. They cannot reasonably be ignored. The key and recurring 
message to Mr B was that the method of withdrawals from the OIB was what had an impact 
on tax treatment. It was for this reason that the recommendations letter and the key features 
document informed him at the outset of the need to take advice at the point of withdrawals in 
order to ensure they were done tax efficiently.
On the balance of available evidence, I am not persuaded that Mr T was misled about the 
tax treatment of the OIB. 
Suitability of Mr Ts OIB
The key issue in this respect is the matter of investment term. Mr Ts case for the 
unsuitability of the OIB in comparison to an onshore bond, is mainly about how the latter 
performs better in the shorter terms less than 20 years. 20 years is significant because of the 
OIBs 5% per policy year tax free withdrawals allowance. By implication, it will take 20 years 
 at the rate of 5% per year  to exhaust an OIB tax efficiently, so his argument is that for an 
investment term less than this the OIB is unsuitable. He has also made the argument about 
being a high rate tax payer at the time of advice and Coutts recognition that an OIB was 
unsuitable in that respect.
In 2011 Mr T had a net worth of almost £14 million, including around £4 million in cash. He 
was retired and had ample dividend income at the time of advice, but evidence shows there 
was foresight by both parties that this would end and that he would thereafter need a new 
source of income. I have not seen evidence that the idea of having imminent of foreseeable 
recourse  or such recourse within 20 years  to the £2.5 million (later £2 million) OIB capital 
existed at the time. Available information, on balance, supports Coutts claim that the 
objective was to have an investment that, on an ongoing and indefinite basis, provided 
growth, tax efficient income and investment flexibility. 
In the above context, I am not persuaded that Mr T was deprived of a warning he should 
have received on the consequences of liquidating the OIB within 20 years. I accept that, for 
the sake of completeness, this is a point to consider in assessing suitability of an OIB in general, but I do not accept that it was a point Coutts were obliged to consider in assessing 
the OIB it recommended to him for his stated objective. It arguably had little to no cause to 
consider such a point given that it had no indication that such liquidation was relevant to him.
It is also noteworthy that Coutts advice to him made out a case for the suitability, for him, of 
the OIB over an onshore bond in terms of the investment flexibility he wanted. I do not 
consider that it was wrong in this respect.
The statement from Coutts that Mr T has referred to  and that he says shows Coutts 
recognition of the OIBs unsuitability for his high rate tax status in 2011  should be 
considered in its proper context. It was made in a lengthy letter from Coutts to Mr T which, in 
the main, presented the benefits and suitability of the OIB for him. Towards the letters 
conclusion, two paragraphs were used to comment on how an onshore bond could be  
beneficial in certain circumstances  but the conclusion remained that the OIB was suitable 
for him. Within the paragraphs, Coutts referred to an illustration-based table and said as 
follows:
It uses the FCA maximum assumption of 6% per annum. It assumes the simple 
accumulation, without any gains crystallised until the end of the 20 period, which it [sic] the 
maximum under the system. You can see the caveats. At 20% income tax on encashment, 
there is an advantage. At 40%, you would expect to see the onshore mutual fund be more 
beneficial as noted above.
This table is only indicative and should not be used to solely determine the appropriateness
of the relevant wrapper. There would be a range of considerations to be taken into account.
[my emphasis]
The sentence emphasised above is what Mr T has highlighted. However, read as part of the 
two paragraphs, I do not consider that the statement was the admission by Coutts of 
culpability that Mr T suggests it was. It was a general comment, akin to a similar comment 
Coutts made to this service (as mentioned earlier above) and it does not go as far as to 
concede that the OIB was unsuitable for Mr T. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded 
that the OIB was unsuitable for Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman