DRN-3588582
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service in connection with a 
home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees, contractors and others insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
Mr W has a home with a central heating boiler. From at least mid-December 2019, he had a 
British Gas Home Care policy that included cover for the boiler. We categorise that as a 
home emergency insurance policy, although it covers more than emergencies. It also covers 
an annual service visit.
From mid- December 2020, the policy was renewed for another year.
By a letter to Mr W dated 17 September 2021. British Gas said it was paying him £65.00 
because it hadnt done a service in the last year.
Mr W arranged an annual service to take place on 17 November 2021.
In late October 2021, British Gas said it would re-schedule the visit for April 2022. In early 
November 2021, Mr W complained to British Gas about that. By a final response dated early 
December 2021, British Gas said it had made an appointment for 28 January 2022 and was 
compensating Mr W £50.00.
From mid-December 2021, the policy was renewed for another year.
British Gas missed the appointment in January 2022. It arranged a visit for 22 February 
2022. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us in early February 2022.
A few days before the appointment for 22 February 2022 , British Gas re-scheduled it for 22 
April 2022. Mr W complained again and said he had an issue with his boiler.
By a final response dated 18 February 2022, British Gas said it had made an appointment 
for 24 February 2022 and it was sending Mr W £30.00. British Gas kept that appointment 
and did a repair and a service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
£65.00 refund for the service and the £50.00 credit for the missed appointment was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
British Gas deceitfully advertises insurance which promises an 'annual service'. This 
is misrepresenting its product for commercial gain. 
The word annual means every twelve months.
British Gas cannot change a universally accepted term to delay services when it 
wants to.
This is clearly misrepresentation for commercial gain i.e. move all contracted annual 
boiler services to every 18 or 24 months so that they had to carry out fewer boiler 
services in that period and save themselves money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks into individual consumer complaints about 
regulated activities of regulated financial firms. Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair 
act or omission, we try to make sure that the complainant consumer is compensated for the 
impact on him or her. We dont assess compensation at a level intended to punish or deter 
unfair acts or omissions. Its not our role to try to put things right for other consumers. 
So I will only comment on Mr Ws complaint insofar as it is about his own experience and the 
impact on him.
Under a yearly policy with automatic renewal, the policy year will start on the same day each 
year. A home boiler service can only take place with an appointment between the consumer 
and the business. The service is unlikely to be on the same day each year.
An annual service could mean a service in the year from 1 January, or from the renewal 
date, or from the date of the last service. So there is a need to define what annual means. 
The British Gas policy terms have changed in some respects from time to time. In my view 
the changes took effect on Mr W from the renewal date following each change. But the 
British Gas policy terms have, for many years, included terms along the following lines:
Definitions
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement
period of agreement
- the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out
Annual service
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service
visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), 
we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.Cancellation charges
If you or we cancel your agreement or any products and weve already completed 
work for you since you bought or renewed them, you may have to pay cancellation 
charges.
The table on the right side of this page shows you the amount you may have to pay..
Annual service £65.00
Since about June 2020, the British Gas policy term about reasonable timescales has also 
included a term as follows:
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
Mr W hasnt provided enough detail to show that British Gas misled him when he took out 
the policy. In any event, each time the policy renewed, British Gas sent him a renewal letter 
that included an Insurance Product Information Document that made clear (albeit by 
asterisks and a footnote) that the annual services may be more than 12 months apart. 
From its records, I find that British Gas did an annual service in early March 2020.
Mr W didnt get a service in the policy year from December 2020 to December 2021. British 
Gas hasnt sought to argue that its policy terms mean that it didnt have to do one. Rather, it 
has offered compensation of £65.00. Thats in line with the value attributed to an annual 
service in the policy terms. So I find it fair and reasonable.
From about November 2021, Mr W had a bad experience of re-scheduled appointments and 
a missed appointment. 
I keep in mind the policy terms. I also keep in mind the payment of £65.00. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mr W compensation for re-scheduling the 
appointment from mid-November 2021. British Gas must take responsibility for the missed 
appointment in January 2022. But Ive seen weather data from which I find it reasonable that 
British Gas re-scheduled the appointment on 22 February 2022.
The annual service is often the only visit British Gas will make to a consumer in a year. And I 
accept that British Gas caused Mr W frustration and a feeling that he wasnt getting what he 
was paying for, as well as a concern for the care of his boiler.
But Mr W remained covered for repairs to the boiler. And indeed British Gas made a repair 
visit and also did the annual service on 24 February 2022.
Overall, Im satisfied that British Gas paid or gave credit of fair compensation for Mr W. I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay or do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.  Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman