DRN-2598934
The complaint
Mrs W and the estate of Mr S complain that Legal & General Assurance Society Ltd declined 
a life insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mrs W and Mr S applied for life cover with Legal & General in September 2017. The policy 
was set up with a ten-year term and provided a sum assured of £100,000. Mr S sadly died in 
February 2019 and so a claim was made under the policy. 
Legal & General declined the claim as they considered Mr S failed to give accurate 
information about his health history when applying for the policy  this included his blood 
pressure, cholesterol, blood glucose, alcohol consumption and liver function. They said they 
wouldnt have offered Mr S cover had they known the correct information. So, they cancelled 
the policy and refunded the premiums to Mrs W (as shed informed them she didnt want the 
policy to continue in her own name). 
Mrs W complained about this. She questioned why Legal & General didnt obtain medical 
records at the time of the application like they did for a previous application made in 2007. 
And, in respect of Mr Ss blood pressure, Mrs W explained that Mr S didnt think he had high 
blood pressure as it was only raised when in contact with healthcare professionals. 
Legal & Generals position didnt change. They referred to Mr Ss medical history which 
showed hed been given health education for alcohol and lifestyle counselling by his GP, 
and that his blood pressure was monitored due to it being high with medication prescribed 
for it. Various blood tests also showed his cholesterol and glucose levels to be high along 
with abnormal liver function. Because of this, Legal & General considered Mr S had 
misrepresented his health when answering the application questions by not disclosing this 
information  and they classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. 
Legal & General thought Mr S ought reasonably to have known this information was relevant 
to them when completing the policy application. And, having checked with their underwriting 
team, they confirmed cover wouldve been declined if theyd have known this. So, Legal & 
General considered their decision to decline the claim, cancel the policy and refund the 
premiums was fair. They also explained that whether they request an applicants medical 
records is dependent on how the application questions are answered. And, based on the 
answers Mr S provided, it wasnt necessary for them to seek additional information at that 
time. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he didnt 
think Legal & General had to do anything further. He thought Mr S misrepresented his health 
in relation to his blood pressure and alcohol consumption. And, as Legal & General had 
showed they wouldnt have offered cover had they known otherwise, the misrepresentations 
were qualifying ones. He also explained that in cases of deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy (treat it as if it never existed), 
refuse the claim(s) and retain the premiums. So, by refunding the premiums, he considered 
Legal & General had acted fairly when cancelling the policy and declining the claim. 
Mrs W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentation 
when answering questions about this his health and lifestyle. This includes, amongst others, 
his blood pressure and alcohol consumption. 
The relevant questions in the policy questions are:
Lifestyle
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the 
amount of alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?

Health  Last 5 years
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about 
a medical condition, please tell us anyway. 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 
5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis. 
Im satisfied both questions are clear and so, I consider Mr S ought reasonably to have 
understood what was expected from him when answering them.
Mr S answered both of these questions No. The medical records however show that in March 2002 Mr S was drinking 30 units of alcohol 
per week and health education [was] offered for alcohol by the GP. His alcohol 
consumption was later recorded as 28 units per week in October 2011 and Mr S was offered 
lifestyle counselling in December 2011. Ive considered that the above happened some 
fifteen and six years prior to Mr S applying for the policy. However, Ive also taken a letter 
from Mr Ss consultant in 2018 into account. This says:
Diagnosis:
1. Alcohol related cirrhosis
2. Decompensated with alcoholic hepatitis

He has regularly consumed alcohol for 27 years, and has never managed to sustain 
a period of abstinence before now.
This letter post dates the application. But I think it evidences that Mr Ss alcohol consumption 
was high and it had been for a long period of time. And that Mr S had been unsuccessful in 
his attempts to stop drinking alcohol. From this, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr S 
ought reasonably have known - when he applied for cover - his alcohol consumption was too 
high and that hed previously been advised to reduce it.
Im therefore satisfied there was a misrepresentation here and that Mr S didnt take 
reasonable care when answering the question as to whether hed ever been advised to 
reduce the amount of alcohol he was drinking.
Mr Ss medical records also show he suffered from hypertension (high blood pressure) over 
the years. And, within the five years preceding the application, its recorded that Mr S was 
prescribed medication for this and that lifestyle advice regarding hypertension was provided 
to him in January 2013, as well as a hypertension monitoring telephone invite in October 
2013.
I understand Mrs W believes Mr S answered the question, in respect of his blood pressure, 
correctly. Shes explained that in the last five years prior to application he monitored his own 
pressure and it was normal except when in a healthcare environment. And that, as far as 
she was aware, Mr S hadnt seen a healthcare professional about his blood pressure since 
2012 (more than five years before applying). 
Ive taken what Mrs W has said in to consideration but, while I dont doubt Mr S was 
monitoring his blood pressure from home, the medical records evidence that he suffered 
from hypertension within the five years prior to applying. And, while Mrs W suggests Mr S 
only experienced high blood pressure in a healthcare environment (known as white coat 
hypertension), I havent seen anything to support that. I also consider it unlikely that Mr S 
wouldve been prescribed medication for hypertension if it wasnt required. And so, on 
balance, I think Mr S did suffer from hypertension during the five years prior to the 
application and that he ought reasonably have known this. 
Im likewise satisfied there was a misrepresentation here and that Mr S didnt take 
reasonable care when answering the question as to whether hed seen a doctor, nurse or 
other health professional for raised blood pressure in the last five years. Legal & General has provided their underwriting criteria to show that, had Mr S disclosed the 
correct information, then they wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Ss misrepresentations were qualifying ones. 
Legal & General has considered Mr Ss misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless. 
Ive considered Legal & Generals actions in accordance with CIDRA. And, irrespective of 
the type of misrepresentation (careless, deliberate or reckless), it says an insurer can avoid 
a policy and decline a claim(s) in instances where they wouldnt have offered cover had the 
correct information been provided. The insurer is however entitled to keep the premiums 
where the misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, but they should be returned where it is 
considered careless. In this case, it seems that while Legal & General considered the 
misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless theyve refunded the premiums to Mrs W 
anyway. As I consider the misrepresentation at the very least careless, I dont think Legal & 
General have to do anything further in this respect. 
Im satisfied Legal & General was entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  the policy never existed, Legal & General does not have 
to deal with the claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Legal & General to rely on it to avoid the policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
On a final note, Im aware Mrs W has questioned why Legal & General provided cover to her 
and Mr S in 2007 as they obtained his medical records for that (previous) policy. So, they 
wouldve known about his hypertension and the alcohol education at that time. While Ive 
noted Mrs Ws concerns, Im afraid the previous policy has no bearing on whether this claim 
should be paid or not (as the policy expired prior to Mr Ss passing). I can only consider 
whether Legal & General acted fairly in respect of the policy that was applied for in 2017. 
That said, it may be helpful for me to explain that insurers change their underwriting criteria 
over time. So, its possible that Legal & General accepted the associates risks in relation to 
Mr Ss health for the previous policy. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs W is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Legal & General has unfairly declined the claim or that they have to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman