DRN-3264620
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint, against Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd (and referred 
to as such below) is about fund management charges which Mr F says werent properly 
disclosed.  
What happened
I dont think theres any dispute about what happened. In 2017 Mr F was advised by Richard 
Keen Financial Services (Richard Keen) to use a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to 
manage his pension portfolio. Two recommendation letters were issued  on 24 May 2017 
and 24 October 2017. Mr F understood hed pay a fund management charge of 0.5% on 
around 70% of his portfolio in addition to the DFMs annual management charge (AMC) of 
0.7% plus VAT. Mr Fs complaint is about the fund management charge, not the AMC. 
In December 2019 Mr F was told that Ascot Lloyd had acquired Richard Keen. Ascot Lloyd is 
now responsible for the advice Richard Keen gave. 
The next contact Mr F had with Ascot Lloyd was in August 2020 when he arranged to
start drawing from his pension. The drawdown commenced in around November 2020. Prior 
to that, in October 2020, hed received an Investment Planning Report & Annual Review. 
From that he saw the fund management charges were higher than hed believed.  
He complained to Ascot Lloyd. It wrote to Mr F on 9 February 2021 setting out the DFMs 
responses to queries about the charges and what Richard Keens suitability letters had said 
about the fund management charges. Ascot Lloyd also referred to new legislation which had 
come into effect at the start of 2018 aimed at making the costs of investing in products such 
as investment funds transparent and comparable and which required full disclosure of all 
costs and charges. 
Ascot Lloyd wrote further on 26 February 2021. The DFM had confirmed that subsequent 
investments had contributed to the OCF (ongoing charges figure) increasing. Richard Keens 
letter of 24 May 2017 gave an approximate figure of 0.5% for the fund management charge 
and went on to say that could apply to around 70% of the portfolio, so an additional 0.35%. 
The suitability report dated 17 October 2017 detailed an approximate OCF of 0.5%. Ascot 
Lloyd set out the OCF (in money and percentage terms) for 2018 and 2019.
In conclusion Ascot Lloyd said, while the information provided to Mr F in 2017 was in line 
with the then requirements, more warnings couldve been given as to the possible increase 
in the level of charges. Ascot Lloyd offered the difference between 0.5% and the actual fee 
charged for the years 2018 and 2019. Mr F had paid a total of £9,474.46 in OCF charges, 
based on his average portfolio value for each year. Had the OCF remained at 0.5% for each 
year, hed have paid £5,573.14. Ascot Lloyd offered the difference of £3,901.32. But, about 
the 2020 fees, Ascot Lloyd said it appreciated these may also be above 0.5%, but Mr F had 
received statements in early 2020 and, if hed been concerned about the level of the fees, he 
couldve raised it and looked to consider an alternative investment. So Ascot Lloyds offer 
didnt include the 2020 fees. 
Mr F asked Ascot Lloyd to reconsider the 2020 fees. Ascot Lloyd declined and Mr F referred 
his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said there were two issues to consider: First, the recommendation letter had 
quoted a fee of 0.5%; secondly, the charge would only be applied to around 70% of the 
portfolio which in effect reduced it to 0.35%. The investigator said the charge was around 
0.63% in 2018 and 0.97% in 2019 and above 0.5% in 2020. Throughout the charge was 
applied across the full portfolio and not just 70%. 
In respect of the first issue the investigator accepted that any ongoing charges figure wasnt 
fixed and could change, depending on performance and trading costs, so only an estimate 
could be given. But he agreed with Ascot Lloyd that more shouldve been done to make it 
clear the fee could be higher than 0.5%. On that basis, the offer to pay the difference 
between the 0.5% detailed in the recommendation report and the actual fee was fair. 
But Ascot Lloyd had only offered to pay that for 2018 and 2019, even though the charge for 
2020 also exceeded 0.5%. The investigator said it was important to consider if Mr F couldve 
mitigated his losses. But Mr F had said he had no reason to believe he was being charged 
more than what was originally agreed. The investigator accepted that Mr F wasnt aware of 
the additional charge until the review in October 2020. Hed then complained promptly when 
hed noticed the charges were more than hed thought hed agreed to. On that basis, the 
investigator said Mr F should be refunded the difference between 0.5% and the actual fee for 
the period already refunded but also for the period after this until the date of settlement.
About the second issue, the recommendation report dated May 2017 said the 0.5% charge 
could apply to around 70% of the portfolio, meaning the fee was, in effect, reduced to 0.35%. 
Whilst this wasnt covered again in the October 2017 letter, Mr F had said the same was 
discussed with the adviser. It wasnt wrong for the adviser to explain, if the charge was 
applied to 70% of the portfolio, it would, in effect, equate to an additional 0.35% rather than 
0.5%. Mr F may have seen that as an indication of the fixed cost. But the amount that would 
actually be charged was determined by the make-up of Mr Fs portfolio. 
Where, as here, a DFM is engaged, its the DFMs responsibility to select and manage the 
investments in line with its mandate. The adviser wouldnt be involved in the selection and so 
the investigator didnt think Ascot Lloyd should be held responsible for an increase or 
decrease in charges because of the portfolio make-up. Ultimately the reason for the fund 
management charge being applied to the whole portfolio was because of the decisions taken 
by the DFM. As the make-up of the portfolio was out of Ascot Lloyds control, it wouldnt be 
fair for the offer to include the difference between 0.35% and the actual charge. 
Mr F was prepared to accept the investigators findings. Ascot Lloyd wasnt. It maintained the 
difference between the 0.5% and the actual charges should only be calculated for the years 
2018 and 2019.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although Ive considered everything again, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator and the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add. Ascot Lloyd accepts that the fees the DFM would charge werent as clearly explained as 
they might have been. In consequence Ascot Lloyd has agreed to reimburse Mr F with the 
difference between 0.5% and the actual fee charged for the years 2018 and 2019. But I 
agree with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Ascot Lloyd to reimburse 
Mr F with the difference in the fees up to date. 
I say that for two reasons. First, in so far as the fees charged for 2020 are concerned, 
although Ascot Lloyd has pointed to the statements sent in March 2020, Mr F has said it 
wasnt until he got Ascot Lloyds October 2020 report that he saw hed only actually see a 
third of any growth, which led him to check the fees were as hed been led to expect. Like 
the investigator, I dont immediately see, in the absence of anything specific, why Mr F 
wouldve been prompted to check the fees were as hed understood them to be. Mr F has 
also said it wasnt obvious from the statements that the DFMs charges were more than hed 
been expecting. But the October 2020 report set out in a simple, tabulated, form Ascot 
Lloyds and the DFMs fees which made clear the level of fees compared to the assumed 
returns arising from the growth rates illustrated. 
Secondly, Mr F says he asked his Ascot Lloyd adviser on 22 October 2020 about possible 
alternative fund management service levels and charges (which had been mentioned at the 
meeting the previous day). But the adviser said he was unable to give advice while the 
complaint was being considered. So Mr F may have continued to incur the same level of 
fees up to date and pending a resolution to his complaint. I dont think it would be fair to say 
he shouldve mitigated by adopting an alternative investment strategy or selecting a different 
service level without advice.  
I think its fair and reasonable for Ascot Lloyd to meet the difference between the 0.5% and 
what Mr F has actually been charged, not just for 2018 and 2019 but up to date. 
Ive considered the other point, about the proportion of the portfolio that the charge attaches 
to. The suitability report dated 24 May 2017 says, about the fund management charge:
Approximately 0.5% pa for the underlying funds that [the DFM] use to make up [Mr Fs] 
holdings. This could apply to around 70% of the portfolio, ie an additional 0.35%. 
The later report, dated 24 October 2017, didnt refer to 70% but Mr F says his discussions 
with the adviser confirmed what the earlier report had said.  
Although 70% was mentioned in the May 2017 report, I think it was clear it wasnt a fixed 
figure but an estimate  the report said the charge could apply to around 70% of the 
portfolio, in which case the overall charge would be 0.35%. I think it was also apparent that 
the exact charge would depend on the underlying funds selected by the DFM, which would 
vary, so an exact figure couldnt be given. As the investigator pointed out, as there was a 
DFM in place, day to day investment decisions and what assets are bought and sold and 
when, was down to the DFM and not Ascot Lloyd. So, although based on the 24 May 2017 suitability report and discussions with Richard 
Keens adviser, Mr F wouldve been expecting the fund management charge to be around 
0.35% overall, that was only an indication and it could be more, depending on the underlying 
funds that the DFM selected. On that basis, and as fund choice was outside Ascot Lloyds 
control, I dont think it would be fair to say that the 0.5% fund management charge should be 
further reduced to an equivalent of 0.35%.
Putting things right
In awarding compensation my aim is to put Mr F, as far as possible, in the position hed be in 
now but for any shortcomings on the part of the business. Here Ascot Lloyd has accepted 
that more couldve been done to ensure Mr F knew the fund management charges could be 
higher than indicated. 
I agree with the redress suggested by the investigator. Ascot Lloyd should refund to Mr F the 
difference between the fund management charges hes paid and the 0.5% indicated in the 
recommendation report. That should be calculated from 2018 as offered but up to the date of 
settlement (ie up to the date of payment of the refund). 
If possible the compensation should be paid into Mr Fs pension plan. But not if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.  If paid into the pension, the payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. If payment into the pension 
isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr F.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd must redress Mr F as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman