DRN-3329694
The complaint
Mrs H complains that TransferWise Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
What Mrs H says
Mrs H says that in late 2018 she opened an online trading account with a company Ill call T. 
She thought T was carrying out trades on her behalf, but this wasnt the case and in fact T 
took her funds fraudulently. Mrs H says that she completed some transactions using her 
debit card but on Ts instructions most funds were transferred abroad through Wise. On 11 
January 2019 Mrs H transferred £32,000 through Wise and on 16 January she transferred 
£21,000.  
By March 2019 Mrs H says she became aware that shed been involved in a sophisticated 
binary options scam. The account manager she was dealing with became aggressive and 
asked for more money and a request to withdraw funds wasnt accepted. In April 2019 she 
sought professional advice about how to recover her lost funds and on 3 May 2019 reported 
the scam to Wise. Wise said it would try to recall her funds that day, but this didnt happen, 
and Wise provided her with poor customer service.
Mrs H would like Wise to provide her with a refund. She says Wise violated its terms and 
conditions in allowing the transfers for investment purposes and didnt complete enough 
checks before making the payments. In addition, Wise failed to attempt to recover her funds. 
Mrs H says she has lost her life savings, which has had a huge impact on her and her 
husband. 
What Wise say
Wise has pointed out that Mrs H didnt hold an account with it but used its money transfer 
service on two occasions. Its fraud detection tools didnt flag the two payments because they 
werent unusual or suspicious. Wise says that it is commonly used for large money transfers 
like the ones Mrs H made and is cheaper than using a high street bank. And there was 
nothing to suggest the payments were being made for an investment  the payee name 
sounded more like a media or design company. 
In respect of recalling the payments, Wise suggested Mrs H contact the payee herself as 
any attempt to do so relied on the cooperation of the recipient of Mrs Hs funds.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mrs Hs complaint initially recommended that it be upheld 
but changed his mind after receipt of additional information from Wise. In summary, he said:
- Wise isnt a bank, operates differently to one and is regulated differently so many of 
the regulations that apply to banks dont apply to electronic money institutes like 
Wise. 
- Mrs H didnt have an account with Wise but made one-off transactions for large 
sums. This kind of activity isnt unusual, and neither is making an international 
payment through Wise. Also, because Mrs H didnt open an account and hadnt used 
Wise before, Wise had no historic account activity to compare Mrs Hs transactions 
with.
- Mrs H completed the transactions online so there was no conversation with Wise and 
the payment process didnt involve asking Mrs H why she was making the payments. 
So there was nothing to put Wise on notice that Mrs H might be at risk of becoming a 
victim of fraud.  
- Wise didnt do what it should have done to attempt to recover Mrs Hs funds. On 
balance though, the investigator felt that even if Wise had contacted the payee as 
expected it wouldnt have made a difference as funds are removed by fraudsters very 
quickly. Also, international banks arent subject to the same regulations as UK banks 
and need authority from the account holder to remove funds.  
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint, 
so its been passed to me to consider. She said:
- Wise is a large and profitable organisation that is allowing payments for investments 
to be made outside of its terms and conditions without controls to prevent and rectify 
fraud.
- Although Wise promised to recall the funds it didnt do so.
- She hasnt received an apology or compensation or anything to suggest lessons 
have been learned from her experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mrs H has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether 
it would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. Overall, Ive decided that it wouldnt and will explain why. I should 
also make it clear to Mrs H that I can only look into the actions of Wise and not T.
Should Wise have done more to stop the payments being made?
Ive thought carefully about Wises obligations in this case, particularly given that Mrs H was 
a new customer without previous activity to compare her actions against. Mrs H only used 
Wise to make the two transfers I have discussed above.
Wise is an electronic money institute (EMI) and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the
payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
I think Wise might be liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, 
it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment 
institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or against its customer. But I dont think 
Wise has failed in its obligations to Mrs H in this case. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
Wise knew or ought reasonably to have known the payee account was involved in fraud.
Im persuaded Mrs Hs use of Wises services was broadly in line with what it would expect 
of a customer making international payments and would not have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious. Wise specialises in international payments and customers frequently use its 
services to make significant international transfers. The transactions were completed online and there was no conversation between Wise and Mrs H about them and Wises process 
does not involve asking the purpose of a payment. The transfers were also the first Mrs H 
made through Wise, so it had nothing to compare them with. So I dont consider Mrs Hs 
transfers would have stood out as being remarkable, suspicious or unusual to Wise.
Mrs H says Wise violated its terms and conditions by allowing the transfer of her funds for 
investment purposes. Mrs H has set out Wises Acceptable Use Policy which says,
 We do not support businesses or transactions which are involved in any of the following 
categories
1.2.2 Financial and other professional services
a. Binanry options.
b. Escrow services
c.Companies involved in the exchange or trading of cryptocurrencies
This policy sets out what Wise wont accept and gives Wise options if a customer breaches 
the Acceptable Use Policy. It doesnt provide a customer with rights or mean that because 
Mrs Hs payment was in fact for binary options Wise is liable. In any event, I dont believe 
Wise had any reason to know Mrs H was transferring funds in relation to binary options. Mrs 
Hs funds were sent to an intermediary, the name of which isnt one Id associate with an 
investment company. There wasnt anything else to indicate Mrs H was paying T or was 
involved in binary options or cryptocurrency. Wise has though taken steps to ensure no 
further payments can be made to the intermediary that received Mrs Hs funds.  
Did Wise do enough to recover Mrs Hs funds?
Taking into account good business practice and what I deem to be fair and reasonable, Wise 
is generally expected to assist its customers in recovering misappropriated or misdirected
funds when put on notice.
Wise didnt attempt to recover Mrs Hs funds. I dont consider this was reasonable and I think 
Wise should have contacted the payee as it initially said it would. Our service is unable to 
find out if the funds remained in the account when Mrs H reported the fraud. But on balance, 
I agree that they were likely removed from the account prior to the fraud report being made 
to Wise. Fraudsters are very much alive to the processes of financial businesses when they 
are made aware of fraud. And in order to maximise their income from criminal activities, they 
tend to remove the funds from the beneficiary account very quickly. This is to prevent them 
being returned to the victim of crime.
As Mrs H reported the scam some months after the last transfer, I find it more likely
than not that the funds were removed prior to this. So although I consider Wise should have 
contacted the beneficiary bank Im not persuaded that doing so would have made a 
difference in this case. Also, because Mrs H made international transfers any recovery of 
funds required the agreement of the recipient. As funds were sent as part of a scam, it was 
very unlikely the recipient would agree to return Mrs Hs funds.  
Mrs H has also referred to the fact that shes seen nothing to suggest Wise has learned any 
lessons from her experience. This service looks at the individual circumstances of each 
complaint brought to it and isnt a regulator.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mrs Hs loss, I cant reasonably ask Wise to refund her. My final decision
For the reasons set out I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman