DRN-2174343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs M bought an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy via a 
comparison website. The policy started in June 2019. In July 2019, Mr M became ill whilst 
Mr and Mrs M were on a trip. He  was diagnosed with abdominal pain and a urinary tract 
infection. 
Mr M made a claim against the policy in relation to his medical treatment. IPA declined the 
claim. It said that the policy Mr and Mrs M had isnt designed for anyone with a medical 
history in the last five years. IPA said that Mr M didnt disclose that hed had a kidney stone 
in September 2017. It said that its medical team concluded that Mr Ms previous condition is 
indirectly linked to Mr Ms illness in July 2019. 
Mr and Mrs M say, in summary, that they answered all questions honestly. Mr M says that 
the kidney stone he suffered from in September 2017 isnt a pre-existing condition, as it 
required no treatment. They say that it appears that an applicant is required to declare any 
and every medical condition including routine tests and general medication within the 
preceding five years, which would require contacting a GP. Mr and Mrs M want IPA to settle 
their claim. They say that theres no link between Mr Ms kidney stone in September 2017 
and the condition for which he required treatment in July 2019. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had treated 
Mr M unfairly. That was because Mr M hadnt answered accurately questions about his 
medical conditions. The investigator said that IPA was entitled to avoid the policy and refuse 
the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They thought that the questions IPA asked 
about medical conditions were too wide. Mr and Mrs M say that they answered the questions 
in good faith. They said that the kidney stone was very minor and didnt require any 
medication or treatment. Mr and Mrs M said that the question should be clearer. 
The investigator considered the matter further but didnt change his view. Mr and Mrs M 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs M have strong feelings about this matter. 
Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered carefully. However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider the central issue, that is, whether IPA treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the claim. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks that Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
omitted to tell it that hed had a kidney stone in 2017. 
In general, and as long as it treats customers fairly, an insurer can decide how it conducts its 
business, including what it wants to know about a potential policyholders medical history in 
order to assess risk. Ive looked at the questions IPA asked. On the comparison website, it 
said as follows:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy. Examples 
include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma).
Mr and Mrs M answered No. Later in the sales process, its stated:
Important Information
[]
Please note that the policy you have selected is not designed to cover claims arising from 
pre-existing medical conditions. If you can answer no to the following questions, please 
select I Agree to proceed.
1) Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered 
any medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment 
including surgery, tests or investigations?
2)[]
Im satisfied that the questions Mr and Mrs M were asked were clear. I dont agree with Mr 
and Mrs M that they were too wide. As Ive said, insurers can decide what information they 
need to assess risk. 
Its common ground that Mr M had a kidney stone in 2017. Mr Ms GP records show that a 
CT scan was requested. Therefore, Mr M had a medical condition in the five years before he 
took out the policy that required a test or investigation. So, he should have told IPA about it 
when he took out the policy.
IPA says that Mr Ms GP indicated that Mr M was prescribed Gabapentin as treatment for 
the kidney stone. Mr M says that he was prescribed Gabapentin for many years as pain relieve for an unrelated long-term condition. I accept what Mr M says about this, but it 
doesnt change the outcome because the CT scan ordered by Mr Ms GP was a test or 
investigation for a medical condition, which Mr M should have declared. 
IPA says that if it had known the true position, it wouldnt have sold Mr and Mrs M this policy. 
Instead, Mr and Mrs M would have been redirected via the comparison website to providers 
who offered medical policies. So, Im satisfied that Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one in that IPA wouldnt have sold Mr and Mrs M this policy if Mr M had disclosed the kidney 
stone he had in 2017. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, -  so I 
proceed on the basis that it was merely careless. Ive looked at the actions IPA can take in 
accordance with CIDRA  - it can decline the claim and refund the premium. I dont think that 
IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim and its offered to refund the 
premium. Its not clear to me whether the premium has been refunded. If it hasnt,               
Mr and Mrs M should contact IPA directly about that.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say that Mr Ms kidney stone and the medical condition he 
sought treatment for whilst abroad in 2019 are unrelated. That doesnt alter the outcome 
here. Thats because IPA is entitled to decide that it wont offer the policy to anyone who had 
a medical condition thats required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, 
tests or investigations, within the last five years. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman