DRN-3138248
The complaint
Mr P complains MCE Insurance Company Limited havent offered a fair value for his 
motorbike when claiming under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr P unfortunately had his motorbike stolen. MCE accepted the claim, and 
made an offer of settlement, less Mr Ps excess and outstanding policy premiums. Mr P 
wasnt happy with this, as it didnt allow him to replace his motorbike with a similar one. MCE 
reassessed it and increased the valuation slightly. Mr P remained unhappy, so he 
complained about the amount he was receiving.
MCE explained theyd looked at three motor trade guides to determine the value of Mr Ps 
bike. One of these was lower than the other two, so using the average of those two guides 
this initially came back at £5,632. As Mr P didnt agree, their claims team spoke to those two 
trade guides, and ended up increasing the figure to £5,653. They explained theyd thought 
about adverts but used the guides as theyre based on nationwide research and actual sales 
figures. As for the excess, MCE explained Mr P had agreed to an excess of £2,000. Overall, 
they felt theyd acted fairly in saying the value was £5,653. 
One of our Investigators considered things and found that MCE had overall fairly valued 
Mr Ps motorbike, so wouldnt be asking them to do anything further.
Mr P didnt agree, saying the value was the same as when he first bought it, so valuing it at 
around £1,000 less isnt OK. He provided adverts to explain he cant buy a replacement bike 
of the same standard. And he said hed purchased warranties that covered him for three 
years, and hed not had the motorbike for more than a year.
Our Investigator didnt think the adverts meant the valuation was wrong. Mr P still didnt 
agree, and he said that he didnt think the deductions for the premium was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How the claim should be settled
Ive noted that during Mr Ps dispute with MCE about the valuation of his motorbike hes said 
itd be easier if they just bought him a like for like replacement as he cant find one. I can 
understand why hed say that, but his policy terms say:
The maximum amount we will pay will be the market value of your motorcycle immediately 
prior to the loss.
And this is highlighted in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) as well  which 
provides a summary of the cover. So, Im satisfied its appropriate for MCE to pay the market 
value, rather than buying Mr P a new motorbike as hes asked. And Im satisfied this was 
made appropriately clear to him.
Valuation
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second hand motorbikes and it isnt the role 
of our service to value Mr Ps motorbike. But our general approach is that we look to assess 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations MCE used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides  which is what MCE did. These 
are used for valuing second hand motorbikes. But well also take into account the evidence 
provided by both parties. This might include engineers reports, information provided by 
dealers and adverts, amongst other things.
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based
on research across the country and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We dont find adverts particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair 
market value for the type of motorbike being assessed.
The evidence Mr P has provided to say why his valuation should be higher, is adverts. Ive 
looked at all of the adverts Mr P has provided. Most of them either have no mileage stated, 
or a lower mileage than the 4,420 used to value Mr Ps motorbike. The closest advert is for 
around £700 more, but is a private seller  so Id expect that to have an element of 
negotiation built in.
I can see that initially MCE didnt correctly calculate Mr Ps motorbike, as they used the 
wrong information. But, after using the correct information, its resulted in a figure £21 higher. 
To get this, they directly contacted the two guides closest in valuation as Id expect. Ive 
seen the responses from those two trade guides, and I can see MCE have used the average 
of those two figures  again, as Id expect.
Overall then, Im not persuaded by Mr Ps evidence, and think MCE have calculated the 
valuation amount fairly.
Deductions
Mr P is also unhappy at the deductions that have taken place.
The first of these is Mr Ps excess of £2,000. Mr P hasnt explicitly said he didnt agree to 
this, or that it was mis-sold, so Ive not considered those elements. Instead Ive looked at 
whether the information Mr P was given talk about an excess of £2,000  and they do. So, 
Im satisfied that, based on the current information, MCE have acted fairly in deducting this.
Ive also noted Mr P has some concerns over the deduction of premiums totalling £967.45  
asking why theyve deducted this. Weve asked MCE this, and theyve explained its because 
they think Mr P made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. Theyve also said Mr P 
didnt directly complain to them about this, so if hes unhappy about it theyd need to 
investigate the matter first. 
As I cant see that Mr P has directly complained to them about this, Ive not considered 
whether he did or didnt make a misrepresentation when taking out the policy  or whether it 
was appropriate for them to have made this deduction.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman