DRN-4517357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain about the advice they received from Holiday Extras Cover Limited in
respect of their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs U held annual travel insurance cover which was arranged through Holiday
Extras. The policy ran from October 2022 to October 2023.
Mr and Mrs U had three trips booked in 2023  in March, April, and September.
In February 2023, Mrs Us health changed, and she needed an operation (which would take
place between the first and second trips). She called Holiday Extras to inform it of this.
Holiday Extras spoke with the underwriter, and they excluded Mrs Us condition. Mr and
Mrs U were concerned that they may need to cancel their April and September trips. They
were told by Holiday Extras that the condition was only excluded whilst they were abroad,
but they could still make cancellation claims for those trips if they needed to.
Mr and Mrs U went on their March trip. When they returned, they complained to Holiday
Extras that Mrs Us condition had been excluded.
Holiday Extras responded and said that when there has been a change of health, the
underwriter would usually withdraw cover entirely, and then give the option to submit
cancellation claims or have a pro-rata refund of the premium. But here, the underwriter said
they would cover the upcoming trips, but would exclude Mrs Us condition. Holiday Extras
said if Mr and Mrs U had raised their concerns about this at the time, they could have still
made a cancellation claim for their trips. But as they had travelled on their March trip, that
option was no longer available to them.
Mr and Mrs U complained to Holiday Extras about this. They said theyd been told they could
make a cancellation claim for their April and September trips if they needed to, and hadnt
been told this option wouldnt be available if they went on the March trip.
Holiday Extras accepted that Mr and Mrs U had been given the wrong information, and
offered them £200 compensation for this. Mr and Mrs U didnt accept this offer, and brought
their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she couldnt consider
what the underwriter had done, but thought Holiday Extras had offered reasonable
compensation for its error.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 December 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy says that if the underwriter cant provide cover, the insured will be entitled to
make a claim under the cancellation section for their costs, which cant be recovered
elsewhere, for trips booked before the change in health. Alternatively, the policy could be
cancelled, and a proportion of the premium would be returned.
This Service has an established approach in cases such as this. We usually say the
underwriter should offer to cover the cost of cancelling any trips booked at the time 
(regardless of whether this is medically necessary). Or, if alternative cover is taken out so
the insured can still travel, the underwriter should pay for any difference in premium (up to
the amount it would have paid for cancellation).
Although this complaint isnt against the underwriter, Holiday Extras did give Mr and Mrs U
wrong information about their options under the policy. Ive thought about whether this
impacted them.
If Mr and Mrs U had known that if they went on their March trip, that they wouldnt be able to
make a cancellation claim for their April and September trips if needed, I think its likely they
would have made a cancellation claim for all three trips at that point. I say that because
Mrs U had an operation arranged before her April trip, and didnt know if thered be any
complications.
However, I cant require Holiday Extras to cover any cancellation costs, because Mr and
Mrs U didnt end up cancelling any of their trips. But Mr and Mrs U did take out an alternative
policy for their April trip to make sure theyd have cover for Mrs Us condition. As Ive said,
under our usual approach to these cases, wed expect the underwriter to make this payment.
But here, I think itd be appropriate for Holiday Extras to do so, as it gave Mr and Mrs U the
wrong information about their cancellation options. They wouldnt have incurred this cost if
theyd cancelled their trips.
I therefore intend to require Holiday Extras to reimburse Mr and Mrs U the cost of the
alternative cover they took out for their April trip (and September trip too, if they took out
alternative cover for this as well), plus interest.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs U were caused worry and upset by the wrong information they
were given by Holiday Extras. I see that Mrs U in particular spent a lot of time trying to
resolve the issue, and then had to find alternative cover whilst she was recovering from her
operation. She has explained the stress that this caused her. I intend to require Holiday
Extras to increase the compensation payment to £400 to recognise this.
Although Mr and Mrs U are unhappy that Mrs Us condition couldnt be covered in the first
place, that decision was made by the underwriter and not Holiday Extras.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wanted to make before I made a final 
decision.
Mr and Mrs U responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.
Holiday Extras responded to say it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same 
conclusions, and for the same reasons. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Holiday Extras Cover Limited to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs U for the cost of the alternative policy they took out for their April trip 
(and September trip, if they did so), plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date they paid for the policy to the date of settlement*.
I also require Holiday Extras Cover Limited to pay Mr and Mrs U total compensation of 
£400**.
*If Holiday Extras considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs U how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr and Mrs U a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**Holiday Extras must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr and Mrs U accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman