DRN-2117018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, mis-sold them a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1987 at the same time as Mr and Mrs H 
applied for a mortgage. Birmingham Midshires cant confirm how or where the sale took 
place, Mr and Mrs B recall it was in a meeting which I think seems likely. 
The PPI was in Mr Hs sole name and provided him with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on
the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is most likely given the available
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here. Birmingham Midshires cant provide a copy of the policy document, so Ive relied on
one from the nearest available date.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told PPI was essential to secure their mortgage. Birmingham 
Midshires disputes this and says its more likely than not the optional nature of the policy 
was verbally explained before the sale was concluded. 
I cant know what was discussed during the sale, or how the PPI was presented. And
Birmingham Midshires no longer has any paperwork from the sale  but thats not surprising
or unreasonable given the sale was over 30 years ago. Its not easy in cases like this where
the information is limited but, on balance, I havent seen enough evidence to fairly conclude
Birmingham Midshires didnt make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H didnt
agree to take it out. I have thought carefully about their comments, but I also have to
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall.
Birmingham Midshires recommended the PPI for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check if 
the PPI was right for him. I know they feel strongly it wasnt, but I dont think it looks like the 
PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time. Ill explain 
why.
Mr H has told us he was entitled to at least six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to this for up to 12 months for all successful accident and sickness claims. It 
also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover so would have allowed him to protect any 
lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr H has said that he had savings of £25,000. From the evidence he has provided I can see 
these were held in unit linked investment bonds. So as a medium- to long-term investments 
its most likely there wouldve been restrictions and penalties for early surrender, and the 
value wouldnt have been guaranteed. The PPI would have meant Mr H didnt need to 
surrender them at an inopportune time, and it would have allowed him to keep the 
investments intact for their future needs. 
Their mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment and their home was at risk 
if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit 
in addition to Mr Hs existing arrangements if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision
about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think
they would still have taken out the policy. I say this as Mr H wasnt affected by any
of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as those affecting self-employed
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he couldve benefitted from the
full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better information about the policys
exclusions and limitations.
I dont know when the cost of the policy was made clear, but the policy was competitively 
priced, and it was apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman