DRN-4426804
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society (Halifax) 
hasnt properly dealt with his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
What happened
Mr S was quoted for solar panels and a battery (the system) for his home in March 2022. 
The total cost of the system was £9,190. After agreeing to the purchase, the system was 
subsequently installed by the suppliers. The purchase was funded with a Halifax credit card, 
and that business is therefore liable for any breach of contract by the supplier under the 
relevant legislation. In this case, Mr S alleges that the supplier failed to correctly repair and 
commission the system after installation  so the system has not provided Mr S with any 
benefit. 
Halifax offered to pay to cover the costs of a third-party supplier carrying out rectification 
works and commissioning the system as well as any consequential losses. 
Mr S says he instructed a third party to prepare a report of the works necessary and paid a 
sum to cover the costs of this. This third party appears to have told Halifax that the sum paid 
(£876) was for the rectification of the system, not simply to prepare the report. Halifax 
therefore offered to pay this sum to cover the rectification works. However, the works were 
not completed, and I understand Mr S is now currently in dispute with this company 
(separate to this complaint). 
Unhappy that a resolution had not been reached, Mr S referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into matters and agreed with Mr S, that the supplier had not 
commissioned the system as agreed in the contract. He therefore felt Halifax (in accordance 
with its obligations under the relevant legislation) should carry out the rectification works and 
ensure the system was correctly commissioned. 
Halifax maintained that it had upheld Mr Ss claim but its offer to cover the costs of any 
rectification works was fair, and that Mr S should instruct a third party to complete the works. 
Mr S felt Halifax ought to do this for him, as it was obligated to. Our investigator then issued 
another recommendation that if Halifax wasnt prepared to carry out the repair works to the 
system, then it should instead unwind the contract. At this point Halifax agreed to find a third 
party to inspect, repair and commission the system  in line with our investigators initial 
recommendation. Our investigator felt this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr S remained unhappy now wanting to unwind the contract. He was dissatisfied with 
Halifax after this issue had remained unresolved for so long. He also felt the resolution 
wasnt specific enough, not knowing any details about it. He added concerns that the system 
may require planning permission, and he didnt know whether having the system affected his 
mortgage or home insurance. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 3 August 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Halifax agreed to the provisional decision, but Mr S made a 
number of additional submissions which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this complaint in part, and Ill explain why.
Initially, it may be helpful to set out that As Mr S paid for the system with a credit card, 
Halifax agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim 
against Halifax, the creditor, for any breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he 
could have claimed against the supplier. 
As Halifax agreed to cover the rectification works, it seems both parties agree that the 
supplier did breach the contract by not commissioning the system correctly. The only matter 
left in dispute is how to put things right for Mr S. So, Ive thought about everything both 
parties have said to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Unwinding the contract
Determining fair compensation is not always an exact science and it is all the more difficult in 
a case like this where solar panels and a battery have been installed at a property. Ive 
considered carefully if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels (at 
Halifaxs expense) and give Mr S a refund of any payments hes made. Ive thought about 
this specifically in this case given the system is not currently functioning as its meant to, 
wasnt installed correctly and in need of repair. Ive also thought about Mr Ss view that his 
relationship with Halifax has broken down to such a degree that he wants to terminate his 
relationship with it. 
However, I dont think it is necessary to order a full unwind in this case. While I sympathise 
with Mr Ss position, from what I can see, the system is repairable and can be commissioned 
 the cost of this doesnt appear to be significant. But the removal and disposal of a 
repairable system would not only be disproportionately costly, but also may lead to other 
problems such as damage to Mr Ss roof that may lead to further costs. Mr S has also 
indicated he would then purchase a new system from a different supplier indicating he still 
wants a solar panel system. So, I dont intend to order an unwind of the contract as 
requested by Mr S. 
Commissioning the system 
Halifax has now agreed to instruct a third party to inspect the system, carry out any 
rectification works and commission the system. Its also offered to pay Mr S any 
consequential losses. I think this is a fair way to resolve this complaint, as it puts Mr S in the 
position he would be in had the breach of contract not occurred. 
I understand Mr S is unhappy that Halifax asked him to locate and instruct a third party to 
carry out the works. I understand this was particularly upsetting for him as his contract with a third-party supplier has led to another complaint. So, I understand why he wasnt prepared to 
now enter into a third contract with another supplier.  
While its not unusual for credit card providers to request consumers to put matters right 
themselves, and simply charge the provider for the costs of this, Mr S wasnt obligated to do 
this, and Halifax was. Under the relevant rules, Halifax is responsible for the rectification 
works (as the supplier would be). When Halifax was informed that Mr S didnt want to locate 
and instruct the repair works himself, it should have made the offer to resolve matters itself 
rather than insist Mr S do this. I fully appreciate that this has led to further delays in the 
system being commissioned and caused Mr S unnecessary stress.  
However, I would add that Halifax has consistently agreed with Mr Ss claim, and offered to 
resolve matters, albeit not completely in line with what it ought to have done. So, while I do 
understand Mr Ss perspective, I dont agree this warrants a termination of the relationship 
by now unwinding the contract. I still feel that remedy is disproportionate when the problems 
could be resolved in a much more cost effective and reasonable way. 
Halifax cannot break down exactly what works will need to be carried out as the third party 
will have to inspect the system, confirm what needs doing and then complete the works 
necessary to ensure the system is fully functioning and commissioned correctly. This cant 
be done until the third party has had the opportunity to inspect the system. Any works carried 
out have to be carried out to a reasonable standard and if Mr S remains unhappy with any 
works  he can discuss this with Halifax if that happens. But as explained above, as part of 
this resolution, Halifax will be expected to ensure the system is fully operational. 
Halifax will inform Mr S of any guarantees the third party provides. I understand the original 
supplier guaranteed its workmanship for 2 years. Halifax would be expected to honour any 
contractual terms made by the original supplier. 
Consequential losses 
As the system hasnt been operating for around a year, Mr S has not had the benefit of 
working solar panels and battery for that period, when he should have done. I can see in the 
quote provided by the supplier, it estimated Mr S would get around £815 in benefit in the first 
year. 
It is difficult to know how much a consumer will actually benefit from a system as it depends 
entirely on how much energy is produced, and how much of that energy a consumer uses. 
And the estimates arent guaranteed. Once this complaint is resolved, it will also take some 
time for the issues to actually be resolved, and Mr S has highlighted his concerns that he will 
lose out on another summer where he will not benefit from the system.
Having considered all of the above, I think Halifax ought to pay Mr S £1,000 for the period 
Mr S hasnt had a functioning system. Within this sum, Ive included the £815.21 for the year 
Mr S has already lost out on, and an additional amount for the period it will likely take the 
system to be repaired. 
As Ive explained, working out Mr Ss losses isnt an exact science, but I feel this amount 
broadly compensates him for the period that the system hasnt been functioning. 
Other issues 
Mr S has also mentioned that the system may require planning permission that wasnt 
obtained. He is also concerned whether the system affects his mortgage and home 
insurance. 
I note the quote with the supplier says the following: 
From my experience of solar panel installations, it is not normally the responsibility of the 
supplier to obtain any relevant permission. As it says so in the quotation, the responsibility is 
on consumers to obtain the relevant permissions or confirm that it isnt required. 
The supplier is also not a party to Mr Ss mortgage or home insurance contract. Any rights, 
obligations or breaches are for Mr S to consider when purchasing items for his home. 
Overall, I dont think the supplier has any obligation towards obtaining planning permission 
or checking whether the installation breaches any terms of his mortgage or home insurance 
contract. This is the responsibility of Mr S. So, I dont think Halifax, in its capacity as a credit 
card provider, needs to do anything about these issues. 
Compensation for trouble and upset  
I understand Halifax has already paid Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr S has suffered trying to resolve this complaint. I dont feel this is sufficient 
to fully account for the amount of time, effort and stress Mr S has had to go through to try to 
obtain a satisfactory resolution. So, I intend to ask Halifax to pay Mr S an additional £350  
taking his full compensation amount to £500 (including the amounts Halifax has already 
paid). 
Putting things right 
I intend to ask Halifax to: 
Instruct a third-party supplier to inspect and carry out any repair works necessary to 
ensure the system is fully functioning and commissioned correctly.
Pay Mr S £1,000 for the benefit he hasnt received for the period the system hasnt 
been functioning. 
Pay Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S made a number of additional comments which 
Ill address below. I would like to re-assure Mr S that I have considered everything that he 
has said but I will only address the most salient points below. 
Mr S has explained: 
The original supplier never agreed to rectify the works and they did not make any 
contact with Mr S. 
Halifax originally refuted and disputed the claim  and referred him to citizens advice 
and then electricity suppliers. It repeatedly closed his claim and asked for reports that 
werent necessary. It refused to offer an appropriate remedy even after it was 
recommended by our investigator, only agreeing when the investigator suggested a 
full unwind of the contract. Mr S felt Halifax used such tactics to cause him stress and 
anxiety before it actually offered any sort of remedy. 
Mr S adds that Halifax asked him for a report to prove his claim and then didnt 
refund him the cost of its request. However, I understand a complaint with this 
supplier is being dealt with separately so I will not address it in this complaint. 
Mr S felt Halifax made derogatory comments to him that he was only making a claim 
because he couldnt afford the payments. 
Mr S therefore feels all the above problems he has experienced with Halifax, justifies 
why he no longer wants to deal with the bank and instead wishes to unwind the contract.
 
Mr S also asked for details of when the £150 compensation was paid. He feels the 
compensation recommended doesnt adequately compensate him for years of stress 
and anxiety. Mr S wants his call costs and hourly wage compensated as he has 
spent a considerable amount of time trying to bring this matter to a resolution. 
Mr S is also concerned that the credit card interest he has paid has not been taken 
into consideration. 
The loss of benefit does not take into account energy price increase and Mr S feels 
we ought to have queried Mr Ss use and energy cost per unit before deciding how 
much Halifax should compensate him for the loss of benefit. 
Mr S is happy that Halifax would honour any guarantees in the contract but would like 
to have more details of how this would work. 
Mr S is dissatisfied that I have focused on the system being commissioned only. The 
report with the second supplier pointed out other repair works necessary and not just 
with commissioning the system. He has also complained about finding fixing brackets 
on the floor and loose roof tiles. 
Mr S wanted the battery and equipment to be installed in the adjacent garage  not in 
the loft where he cannot access it. 
He adds that his mortgage is with Halifax and therefore any concerns with possible 
breaches of his mortgage terms should be addressed. 
Mr S said hed never complained about planning permission but simply commented 
that systems over a certain wattage required the Grid Suppliers permission. 
Mr S would like to choose his own supplier who is suitably qualified for his own repair 
works.
We sent Mr S a further email explaining the following: 
Credit card interest. We explained that, in response to a s.75 claim, a credit card 
provider is only expected to remedy the breach of contract. The payments on the 
credit card, including the interest will always have been due, even if the breach of 
contract hadnt occurred, so these would remain payable.
Additional cost from grid suppliers: we explained that while Mr Ss system did require permission from grid suppliers and incurred an additional cost, this is set out in the 
contract. 
We also explained that we understood Mr S was unhappy with the location of the 
battery as he wanted it installed elsewhere. But this does not appear to be a 
contractual obligation thats been breached so we wouldnt expect Halifax to rectify 
this issue now. 
Mr S then responded with the following additional comments: 
He verbally agreed where the battery and internal equipment should have been 
installed, and this was part of his verbal contract with the supplier. 
He also reiterated that the cost of commissioning the system was included in the 
original contract. 
Mr S also said hed now instructed his own third-party supplier to carry out the works 
necessary to get the system working. 
Mr S also now believes he wasnt given the correct size battery. 
We informed Halifax that Mr S had instructed his own supplier and Halifax agreed to allow 
Mr S to choose his preferred supplier, highlighting this is the original remedy offered by 
Halifax  for Mr S to choose a supplier of his own and it would cover the cost of any 
rectification works. Halifax did, however, reserve the right to only cover the costs of the 
rectification works necessary to repair and commission the system, and to have sight of any 
quotes/invoices to enable it to make the payments necessary to resolve the complaint. 
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr S for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision, 
clarifying and providing more details of his experience to date as well as highlighting his 
concerns. I fully appreciate that he has spent a considerable amount of time and effort in 
making his claim and Id like to reiterate that I have thought carefully about his concerns. I 
also accept that Halifax has caused unnecessary delays and stress which is why I 
recommended it pay further compensation. 
It may be helpful to clarify that although I have no doubt Mr S has spent a considerable 
amount of time trying to sort this claim out, and incurred call costs, he has done so in his 
capacity as a consumer. So, we wouldnt expect financial businesses to pay consumers the 
hourly rate they may charge for their work. The compensation I have recommended 
compensates him for what I think is reasonable for the trouble and costs he has experienced 
and in line with what we would usually award in these types of cases. I can see Halifax said 
it had already paid him £100 compensation and would pay an additional £50 within 48 hours 
in its letter of 26 January 2023. If these amounts havent been paid, then I would expect 
Halifax to pay these, on top of the additional £350 I have recommended. 
I do appreciate that Halifax only agreed to the remedy once the investigator suggested a full 
unwind  but it has now agreed to the remedy, so I still dont think a full unwind is necessary. 
I think the compensation I have recommended adequately compensates Mr S for the 
problems he has experienced. 
Regarding Mr Ss concerns over the comments made by Halifax that he feels were 
derogatory. It may be helpful to explain, that when consumers raise disputes of this nature 
and have made use of credit facilities, if consumers are experiencing financial difficulty, 
businesses are under an obligation to treat them positively and sympathetically. I can see 
Halifaxs records notes that a caller asked Mr S if he was experiencing any difficulty. This is 
usually done so if a consumer confirms they are finding it difficult to maintain payments, they 
can be referred to another department for further help with any debts while the claims department deals with the claim. I havent seen anything to suggest that comments were 
derogatory. 
As explained in my provisional decision, Halifax will have to honour any contractual terms in 
the original sales contract including any guarantees provided by the supplier. This means 
should Mr S have any further difficulties, he can raise that with Halifax as and when it 
happens. But I cannot comment on hypothetical scenarios of what might happen if Halifax 
refused to honour such agreements. I can only deal with the complaint currently brought to 
this service. Like any s.75 claim, if Mr S feels he has a valid claim for any further breaches of 
contract, he will have to claim through the usual channels, and if he isnt satisfied with the 
response he receives, he can refer the matter to this service as and when needed. 
Regarding the credit card interest Mr S has paid, as weve explained, this would not be 
something we would consider in response to a s.75 claim. Halifax must remedy the breach 
of contract only  the payments due (including interest), would have been charged and due 
even if the breach of contract had not happened and remain payable. 
I reiterate that Halifax is obligated to remedy any contractual breaches made by the supplier. 
If consumers have a specific wish of where the battery and other items should be installed, 
this is usually agreed before the installation, and dealt with at the time of installation. 
I can see Mr S did subsequently raise this with the installer, but he simply said he wasnt 
happy with the location  rather than explaining that any former verbal agreements had been 
breached. If there had been an explicit agreement with the supplier, Im not sure why Mr S 
didnt highlight this and deal with it during the installation  which I would have expected  
rather than raise his preference after the installation had already taken place. Based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Halifax is duty bound to now pay for such fixtures to be moved. If, 
however, Mr S wants to arrange this separately with the new supplier, he is free to do so but 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to cover any costs associated with this 
I would clarify that Mr Ss concerns over his mortgage terms need to be discussed with his 
mortgage provider separately (even if that is Halifax). Halifax (in its capacity as a credit card 
provider) is not expected to consider any mortgage related queries in response to Mr Ss 
s.75 claim. As explained previously, any permission issues are normally for the consumer to 
discuss with their mortgage and insurance provider  not the suppliers (and by extension the 
credit card provider) as part of a s.75 claim. 
Regarding Mr Ss comments about planning permission  in his email of 12 April 2023, Mr S 
said:
 I did highlight that the system required planning permission, it does affect my [mortgage] 
terms & conditions, my house hold insurance and my right to sell my property.
So, in my provisional decision, I addressed the point about planning permission, but I accept 
if this is something Mr S isnt concerned about, it no longer needs to be addressed.  I 
reiterate that I understand certain systems require permission from grid suppliers and the 
possibility of additional charges is set out in the contract with the supplier. So, I dont think 
Halifax needs to do anything in relation to this issue. 
I explained in my provisional decision that Halifax would have to ensure the system is 
repaired and commissioned  not commissioned only. As explained above, I reiterate Halifax 
must ensure the system is fully functioning and commissioned as part of the repair (which I 
accept was part of the original contract and havent asked for or expected Mr S to pay any 
amounts towards this). While the second supplier has broken down the works it considers necessary to repair the 
system, Mr S is in dispute with this supplier, so I have not specifically ordered only these 
elements to be fixed. As explained earlier, once the supplier who actually carries out the 
repair works inspects the system, they can confirm what needs to be done (which may 
include more than what has already been discovered). 
But as part of the remedy ordered, Halifax is expected to cover the costs of any works 
necessary to ensure the entire system and battery is fully repaired, and functioning (and of 
course safe) and commissioned correctly. To re-assure Mr S, as part of this order, if its 
discovered for example that the panels need to be secured to ensure the panels are safe to 
use, this must be done. As I have said, I havent broken down specific tasks as the system 
will have to be inspected and appropriate repair works carried out as needed. 
I have also thought about Mr Ss concerns regarding how I have estimated his loss of 
benefit. I understand Mr S is unhappy because he feels I havent taken into account the 
increased cost of electricity, nor his specific usage and costs incurred  relying solely on the 
original suppliers estimated first year benefit. 
However, as I have already explained, working out what Mr S has lost isnt an exact science. 
It does depend on a number of factors and assumptions about how much energy might have 
been produced, how much energy Mr S would have used and how much he might need to 
have purchased from his providers. 
In Mr Ss contract, the supplier estimated Mr S may benefit between £562 and £815 during 
his first year after assessing his system, home and needs. These are only estimates, not 
guarantees and, its quite possible depending on a number of factors, that Mr S wouldnt 
have even achieved the lower of the estimates. I chose the higher figure and included an 
additional amount in order to ensure Mr S does not lose out. Halifax has agreed to pay this. 
While I understand Mr Ss concerns, I still think using the suppliers estimates as a basis for 
working out his losses is reasonable, and broadly a fair amount of compensation. 
As explained above, I understand Mr S has now instructed his own supplier to carry out the 
works necessary to get the system in working order. This is exactly what Halifax had 
requested and has now again agreed to. Im satisfied this is a reasonable way to put matters 
right. So, Halifax is to cover the cost of a third-party installer to inspect the system, carry out 
any repair works to ensure the system is fully functioning, safe to use and commissioned 
correctly. 
I would add Mr Ss concerns over the size of the battery installed wasnt raised as part of his 
original complaint. We cannot look into new issues that werent raised as part of his original 
complaint. So, if Mr S would like this investigated, he will have to raise that with Halifax 
separately. If he isnt happy with its response, he can refer the matter to this service as part 
of a separate complaint. 
I understand Mr S is disappointed that I havent ordered the remedy he wishes. And while I 
do sympathise with his position, despite everything he has said, I still think a full unwind is 
disproportionate when everything indicates the system is repairable, can function as it was 
intended and Halifax has agreed to cover the cost of a third-party supplier carrying out the 
necessary works. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a supplier hasnt exercised 
reasonable care and skill in the provision of a service, an appropriate remedy is for the 
service to be provided. While Im sorry Mr S is so disappointed with the outcome, I still think 
the remedy ordered is a fair way to put things right. 
Putting things right
Halifax must: 
Cover the cost of the third-party supplier inspecting and carrying out any repair works 
necessary to ensure the entire system (including the battery and solar panels 
installed on the roof) is fully functioning, safe to use and commissioned correctly. 
Pay Mr S £1,000 for the benefit he hasnt received for the period the system hasnt 
been functioning. 
Pay Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. If Halifax hasnt 
already done so, it must also pay the £150 compensation it offered for the way it 
handled Mr Ss claim. In total, Mr S should receive £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience and costs he has suffered trying to bring this matter to a resolution. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
Building Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman