DRN-3773327
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the interest, fees and charges that Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited (Kensington) applied to her mortgage. The basis of the complaint stems from an 
audit that was carried out on her mortgage  which concluded that she had been 
overcharged. 
What happened
In 2006, Mrs M took out a mortgage with her original lender for £164,5000 (plus fees) on an 
interest only basis, over a term of 17 years. The mortgage was later transferred to 
Kensington. For ease, Ill refer only to Kensington throughout.
Recently, she was approached by a third party who said shed been overcharged interest on 
her mortgage. It provided an audit report that it said showed how this conclusion has been 
reached  and that she was owed a total refund of around £56,000. 
Mrs M complained to Kensington. It didnt uphold the complaint and so she referred the 
matter to this service. There are two complaints with this service regarding this matter:
that interest was overcharged for the duration of the mortgage  which is the subject 
of this complaint
fees and charges applied to the account (which is the subject of another complaint 
with this service).
Kensington didnt consent to this service investigating the complaint under the relevant time 
rules. I issued a decision setting out the part of the complaint that I thought we could 
consider. I said that this service is only able to consider the fairness of the interest charged 
for the six-year period before the complaint was made  in line with our relevant time rules. 
In summary  I said this service can only consider Mrs Ms complaint that she was 
overcharged interest from 17 November 2014. 
I also said that, in determining the fairness of the rate charged  this service can consider all 
the circumstances that may have had an impact on the rate charged  including things that 
happened before that time which influenced the rate charged for the time period we can 
consider. 
Our investigator has considered the parts of Mrs Ms complaint that was made in time,  for 
the time period this service can consider - but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs M disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms complaint has been raised following an audit of her mortgage by a third party. Ive 
considered the submissions which outline that it has used the lenders own terms and 
conditions when carrying out the calculations. The results of which it compared to what 
Mrs M had actually been charged. This resulted in a discrepancy of around £37,000 of 
overcharged interest, fees and charges. Adding 8% simple interest to this  the report 
concluded that Mrs M was owed around £56,000.
Ive considered what rationale applied to the audit. This is limited other than to say that it 
relied on the lenders original terms and conditions and its not clear as to how it arrived at 
the conclusion that such a substantial sum is owed to Mrs M.
Mrs M has told us that she believed shes been overcharged interest as a result of what the 
audit report showed her. As Ive said  the audit report does not make it clear how its 
calculated that interest has been overcharged. 
However, Ive considered the interest that has been charged on Mrs Ms mortgage since she 
took it out and I havent seen any evidence that Kensington have charged more interest than 
whats been provided for under the mortgage contract. 
Mrs M agreed to take this mortgage out on the basis that interest would be fixed at 6.59% 
until 31 May 2008, after which a variable rate of interest at 3% above LIBOR for the 
remaining term would be applied. Looking at the interest rate thats been applied to this 
account since it began, Im satisfied the correct rate has been applied in line with the agreed 
terms. 
The audit does not make it clear what errors Kensington has made in relation to how interest 
has been calculated on the mortgage or overcharged. 
Ive noted that Mrs M has said she doesnt understand how a forensic accountant could 
come to the conclusion that she has been overcharged but this service could not. But the 
audit does not provide a breakdown of the auditor calculations or any explanation of how 
these have been reached. So the audit document is merely a summary of conclusions of an 
audit  which we do not have a copy of. And whilst it lists possible errors, it doesnt draw 
conclusions as to how these may have been 
And the audit summary does allege that interest has been charged unfairly  but then also 
appears to use the same interest used that was applied to the mortgage. Ive seen now 
obvious errors in how Kensington has applied interest to the account. 
There have been periods across the mortgage terms where the account has been in arrears 
as the full interest only monthly payments havent been met. As a result, fees and charges 
have been added to the account and the overall amount owed has increased where the 
interest payments have not been maintained. Interest has been charged on these 
outstanding amounts too when theyve not been repaid. 
That may explain why the audit report concluded that Mrs M had paid more interest than she 
should have. But as the mortgage hasnt always been repaid in line with the terms, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Kensington have applied interest to the total amount outstanding, 
as its money that has been lent and needs to be repaid.
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest that Kensington have applied interest to Mrs Ms 
mortgage account incorrectly and so I dont think she has been overcharged.
Summary
I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, as she is expecting a large refund 
from Kensington as a result of the audit findings, but I havent seen anything to suggest Kensington have overcharged her in the way the audit claims. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman