DRN-4482660
The complaint
Mrs E complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) overcharged 
her on her mortgage which means she wouldnt have been in arrears when they took action 
to repossess her property.
What happened
Mrs E took out an interest only mortgage with BM in 2007. She fell into arrears. In 2010 BM 
capitalised arrears of around £9,865 adding them to the mortgage balance. Unfortunately, 
the account fell back into arrears and BM started possession proceedings. The court made a 
suspended possession order (SPO) in early November 2010 under which Mrs E was 
required to pay the contractual monthly mortgage payment (CMP) and an additional £300 a 
month to avoid being evicted.
Mrs E wasnt able to keep up with payments after around May 2021 and an eviction was 
arranged for later that year. The eviction was delayed when an arrangement to pay was 
agreed. Mrs E made a lump sum payment of around £15,400 in September 2013 to clear the 
arrears at the time. But arrears built up again. She was made bankrupt in April 2015. And 
BM went ahead with the eviction in around September 2015. The mortgage account was 
closed at the end of the year.
In April 2018, following a complaint, BM refunded Mrs E fees and charges shed paid on the 
account of around £1,623. And in April 2019 they refunded additional fees and charges of 
around £834.
In November 2019 BM paid Mrs E around £2,140. That followed a remediation exercise that 
showed theyd been asking her to pay lower contractual monthly payments (CMP) than she 
should have been after arrears had been capitalised in 2010. In February 2022, after a 
review, BM found they hadnt paid Mrs E enough following the remediation exercise and sent 
her an additional amount of around £6,394.
After shed received that payment, Mrs E asked BM to review her account. She said BM had 
created an incorrect level of debt by overcharging her, which had led to the repossession of 
the property. And she raised concerns about the service BM had provided and the payment 
shed made in September 2013.
BM replied later that month. They said all the issues had been looked at previously by them 
and by the Financial Ombudsman Service. In April 2022 Mrs E asked BM to send copies of 
revised mortgage statements for the whole of her mortgage, taking into account the sums 
theyd paid her, so she could review things. In May 2022 BM said again that Mrs Es 
concerns had previously been addressed and they werent able to provide revised mortgage 
statements as they needed to reflect a true story of events.
In June 2022 Mrs E complained to BM. She said she hadnt been in arrears at the time her 
property had been repossessed. Since the repossession, BM had returned thousands of 
pounds since theyd overcharged her. Despite confirming previously she wasnt owed any 
further money, BM had paid her a further £6,394 after wed issued a decision.
BM didnt uphold her complaint. Their response dated 19 August 2022 said:
theyd made payments to Mrs E because we didnt calculate your payments 
accurately for a period of time, which meant the payments we asked you to make 
were less than they shouldve been. This payment represented the difference in the 
payments and would normally have been paid to the mortgage, but as the mortgage 
is closed, it was sent directly to you. However, the mortgage was still in arrears, and 
our decision to take the property into possession was correct;
the sums paid through the remediation scheme wouldnt have prevented them from 
repossessing the property; and
concerns about the administration of the mortgage and the calculation of interest and 
charges had already been reviewed by them and decided by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so couldnt be looked at again.
Since Mrs E remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. She still thought there had been a miscalculation of interest and charges which had 
led to her property being repossessed. And she felt the payment BM sent her in February 
2022 gave her the opportunity to raise questions about her mortgage that wed said 
previously were out of time.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. She said we couldnt reinvestigate her 
previous complaints that had been decided by us. And she didnt think the remediation 
payment BM made to Mrs E made a difference to the repossession action since her arrears 
had been so high. Since Mrs E didnt agree, her complaint was passed to me to decide. I 
recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Es difficult personal and financial circumstances over past years 
and the impact its had on her wellbeing. I can understand her concerns about the 
management of her mortgage account arose again when BM sent her a cheque shortly after 
the Financial Ombudsman Service had finished looking into a previous complaint.
Mrs Es set out some detailed points in support of her complaint. I wont set them all out 
here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service 
we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to my decision. Mrs E has also raised 
concerns about BMs wider actions beyond her own complaint. Our role is to look into 
individual complaints, so I cant look into those.
Having considered everything carefully, Ive come to broadly the same outcome as our 
investigator. My reasons are different in part, and I think BM should pay some compensation 
to Mrs E. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further 
comments before I come to a final decision.BM are right to say I cant look into issues the Financial Ombudsman Service has previously 
decided.
In February 2021 a previous ombudsman decided we couldnt consider the issues BM had 
addressed in their complaint response dated April 2018. That complaint was about BMs 
failure to refund fees and charges and the distress shed suffered in contacting them to 
discuss her entitlement to the refund. BM explained that following engagement with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) theyd agreed to refund arrears management fees on 
customers accounts between January 2009 and January 2016 (the redress scheme). For 
Mrs E, theyd agreed to backdate the refund to when her account opened in 2007. In June 
2019 Mrs E wanted BM to reconsider making a payment for distress in relation to that 
complaint. The ombudsman said Mrs E had brought that complaint to us too late.
In September 2021 another ombudsman decided Mrs Es complaints about BMs service 
failures, and her concerns about the £15,400 payment BM asked her to make and her 
solicitors actions.
Mrs E has mentioned issues weve already addressed in her correspondence about this 
complaint. There are no grounds on which I can reconsider them. But the crux of her current 
complaint is different. Shes concerned that the payments BM have made to her were to 
repay sums theyd overcharged; if BM hadnt overcharged her, she would never have been 
in arrears; and if she hadnt been in arrears, BM wouldnt have been able to take action to 
repossess her property.
Ive looked at the figures Mrs Es provided setting out the balances on her mortgage account 
from time to time. I appreciate the efforts she and her husband went to in putting the figures 
together from the statements BM provided. However, having looked at all the information 
available, I dont think they are accurate. For example, from what I can see, Mrs Es figures 
dont take into account that some of the mortgage payments she made were returned 
unpaid.
The parties agree BM have paid Mrs E a total of around £10,991 made up as follows, using 
rounded figures:
April 2018 £1,623
April 2019 £834
November 2019 £2,138
February 2022 £6,394
The sums paid in April 2018 and April 2019 were refunds of fees and charges. I understand 
they were made as part of the redress scheme. Mrs E received a total of around £2,457.
Im not persuaded Mrs E would have avoided repossession of her property even if the fees 
and charges hadnt been added to her account. They, and the interest charged on them, will 
have built up over time. So, only a proportion of the £2,457 would have formed part of the 
arrears at the time of the SPO in November 2010. According to the SPO, the arrears were 
over £8,600. The statements show arrears management charges of around £1,000 at the 
time. The CMP was around £1,347. So, even if the charges hadnt been applied, Mrs E 
would still have been over five months in arrears. And even if the full amount of the refunds 
were deducted, she would have been around four and a half months in arrears - so the 
position would still have been the same.
Mrs E wasnt able to keep up with her mortgage payments in the following years. After shed 
made the £15,400 payment in September 2013 arrears built up again. She was made bankrupt in April 2015. And when the property was repossessed in September 2015, the 
arrears stood at over £17,000. Even if all the fees and charges had been refunded, its 
unlikely to have made a substantive difference to her overall position on either occasion 
given the financial difficulties shes told us about.
Ive considered whether, taking all the payments BM have made to Mrs E together, would 
have changed things. However, whilst the refund for fees and charges could be seen as 
overcharging by BM, the sums paid in November 2019 and February 2022 were different.
In simple terms, BMs error was to charge Mrs E less than they should have done  not to 
overcharge her. And the payments they made in 2019 and 2022 were essentially 
compensation payments, not refunds.
In line with FCA requirements, BM reviewed Mrs Es mortgage account as part of a 
remediation exercise carried out in around 2019 relating to a number of their customers. In 
Mrs Es case they found a mistake in their mortgage system had meant they werent 
collecting a high enough payment from her each month. BMs mistake started after theyd 
capitalised her arrears in January 2010. They should have increased her CMP then to make 
sure shed paid off the capitalised amount by the end of the mortgage term.
If the mortgage hadnt ended early - and Mrs E had been up to date with the CMP BM had 
actually been asking her to pay - the amount she would have owed at the end of the 
mortgage would have been higher than it should have been. In other words, the mortgage 
would have been underfunded. To put things right, BM were obliged to compensate her by 
paying the amount by which the mortgage would have been underfunded, plus interest.
If Mrs Es mortgage account hadnt been closed by the time the remediation exercise had 
been carried out, BM would have paid the compensation into the account. But since it had 
been closed, they made a payment to her in 2019 instead. And when their 2022 review 
found the payment in 2019 had been too low, they topped it up.
It's artificial to consider what Mrs Es position would have been if the compensation 
payments had been made sooner, since the remediation exercise wasnt carried out until the 
account had been closed. If BM hadnt made a mistake about the CMP, they would have 
been asking Mrs E to pay more. Since she wasnt able to pay the full amount BM were 
asking for anyway, asking her to pay more would only have increased the arrears.
I appreciate Mrs E has remaining concerns about the way in which she feels BM have 
treated her. I cant consider the service issues, as Ive explained. I dont think its fair to ask 
BM to pay any additional compensation. They put things right in line with what wed expect 
and the FCA required them to do where a lender hasnt charged a high enough CMP and the 
account is underfunded.
I can understand Mrs E was upset when she received the 2022 letter enclosing the further 
compensation payment since she thought it supported her view shed been overcharged 
throughout the mortgage term. The letter referred back to the one theyd sent enclosing the 
previous payment in 2019 and it described the payment as a refund. The explanations for 
the payments the letters set out werent as clear as I think they ought to have been to meet 
FCA guidelines that firms should communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
BM provided a further, limited explanation in their complaint response that mentioned shed 
been paying less for a period of time than she should have been. But I can understand why 
Mrs E was still concerned shed been overcharged. 
In addition, I dont think BM addressed Mrs Es complaint in their response as they took the 
view, wrongly, the issues shed raised had previously been addressed. So, shes had to wait some time for an explanation. In the circumstances I think its fair for BM to compensate   
Mrs E for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced since BM responded to her 
complaint in August last year. Bearing everything in mind, I think compensation of £350 is 
fair to put things right.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires to pay Mrs E £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
BM have accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs Es commented on the compensation I recommended BM should pay. She doesnt think 
its enough to put things right. In summary, shes made the following points:
BM failed over eight years to explain the reasons for the payments they made to her 
which is not only distressing and inconvenient, but also negligent. 
BM failed in its duty of care to provide clear explanations over time increasing the 
level of damage they caused to her.
The failure to provide reasons for the payments was due to BMs staff lacking in 
knowledge and training.
When BM sent payments and invited a response, they failed to provide reasons and 
even agreed Mrs Es assumption theyd overcharged her.
When the Financial Ombudsman Service investigated an earlier complaint BM told 
us they didnt owe Mrs E any more money. But they then made the payment of 
£6,394. Either BM had been intentionally misleading, or their staff had acted 
negligently. 
Given the lack of information still, including as to when BM first discovered their 
mistake and the fact more than one review took place, there remains some doubt 
about whether theyve paid Mrs E all they owe her.
Ive thought very carefully about the compensation that would be fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint bearing everything Mrs Es said in mind. And I will now go on to give my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the time and effort Mrs Es put into the complaints shes made against BM 
have caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience over time, particularly given her 
difficult financial circumstances. 
I can take Mrs Es situation and state of mind into account when considering the impact BMs 
mistakes in this complaint will have had on her. But I cant award compensation for other 
complaints shes made where previous ombudsmen have said her complaint is out of time or 
not upheld. So, in this case I still think its reasonable to focus on the impact of BMs poor 
communication relating to the additional compensation they paid in 2022. Thats because 
BM explained why theyd reimbursed fees and expenses in 2018; whilst the underlying 
reason for making a payment in 2019 wasnt set out, BM did explain then that the payment 
was because of underfunding, and they provided a calculation of how theyd worked the 
payment out; and it wasnt until Mrs E received the second compensation payment in 2022 
she raised concerns that the payments shed had from BM might have made a difference to 
whether or not shed lost her house. 
Ive noted Mrs Es concerns, but theres no evidence to show BM havent now reimbursed all 
the fees and charges or paid all the underfunding compensation they are required to. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs E will be disappointed, I see no reason 
to change my provisional decision for the reasons I explained there. I still think £350 is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires should pay Mrs E 
£350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Es complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires to pay Mrs E £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman