DRN-1824005
The complaint
Mr K complains that the car provided by First Rand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr K acquired a car in September 2017 with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement with 
Motonovo. At the time the car was four and half years old and had done 74,983 miles.
Mr K says the day after he took delivery, the dashboard Engine Management Light 
(EML)and emissions light came on. He took the car back to the dealership who attempted a 
repair. However, the problems continued and, subsequently, this was followed by the car 
going into limp mode, which seriously affected its performance.
Mr K says he hadnt realised he was able to complain until hed heard about this from the 
radio in 2019. At that point he contacted Motonovo but it rejected the complaint on the basis 
that the issues hadnt been raised until more than six months after Mr K had acquired the 
car. Mr K disagrees and says thered been problems with the car since he acquired it and he 
feels the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hed now like to reject the car, cancel the hire 
purchase agreement and receive a refund of his payments.
Motonovo said Mr K hadnt told them about the problem until April 2019, some eighteen 
months into the agreement. As hed had the car for more than 6 months it was for him to 
show the faults had been there at the point of supply. Mr K hadnt done so and on that basis, 
it didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which 
covered this agreement, Motonovo was required to ensure that any goods supplied were of 
satisfactory quality. What was satisfactory depended on a number of factors including its 
age, price, use and mileage which in Mr Ks case took into account that it had been an older 
car and had done almost 75,000 miles.
It was also relevant when the faults occurred. If this happened in the first six months of the 
agreement, it was considered more likely that the faults were present at the point of supply. 
After that, it was for the consumer to show the faults had been present at that time. 
Our investigator said Mr K had first noticed a problem with the EML within the first month 
and a diagnostic report, dated 13 October 2017, identified multiple fault codes. Although the 
dealership had attempted a repair, the problems had continued and this was confirmed by 
the two diagnostic reports in 2018 that found the same issues as had been identified at the 
first test the year before. 
An independent report, dated 20 January 2020, had reported a number of faults, including 
the same fault codes that had first been identified in October 2017. It stated Taking into 
consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of sale, we 
consider the issues found would have been present or developing at that point of sale 
and the selling agent would be responsible for the cost of repairs and  these issues 
have been materialised within the first 1000  2000 miles of use which would mean these 
issues were present at the point of sale. This vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at sale.. 
Taking into account the problems Mr K had had, and when theyd first been identified, our 
investigator didnt consider that this car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. The selling garage had had the opportunity to carry out a repair but this hadnt 
resolved the problem and, in the circumstances, the investigator felt it reasonable that Mr K 
should now be allowed to reject the car and cancel the agreement. In addition, Motonovo 
should reimburse Mr K the cost of the independent report and the various diagnostic reports 
hed obtained. Mr K had covered more than 30,000 miles since hed had the car so he didnt 
feel it reasonable to ask Motonovo to refund any of his payments under this agreement but 
he recommended that Motonovo pay Mr K £150 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience hed had.
Motonovo disagreed and said it had invited Mr K to obtain an independent report and offered 
to pay up to £200 towards this. Now that an independent report had been carried out, it felt it 
only fair that it should be allowed to review it and to continue with its investigation before a 
formal decision was made. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Mr K accepted the recommendation in principle but said that the ongoing problems with the 
car had reduced his use and enjoyment of it. He asked for a refund of at least 30% of the 
payments hed made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Motonovo feels it should be given the opportunity to review the independent report 
before this service continues with its investigation. It says it offered to contribute towards the 
cost of such a report and agreed it would take that into account if one was obtained. I dont 
doubt that if Mr K had provided this report before bringing his complaint to this service, 
Motonovo would have considered it carefully. However, Motonovo sent Mr K a final response 
letter on 22 May 2020 that included the referral rights to this service. Under the rules that 
govern what complaints we can accept, Mr K was therefore entitled to bring his complaint to 
us within 6 months, which he did, and we were entitled to review it.
Id also add that its not unusual for new information to come to light during our investigations 
and while I can understand why Motonovo would prefer to carry out its own review of this 
information before our service makes a decision, I dont consider thats a sufficient reason to 
delay this complaint further by returning it to allow Motonovo to do so. I confirm, however, 
that I have taken all the information available into account in my final decision.
As has been stated, Mr K acquired his car with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement with 
Motonovo. As the credit provider, Motonovo has a shared responsibility to ensure that the 
car provided was of satisfactory quality. Theres no precise definition of what would be 
satisfactory but its what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking into 
account the items description, price and use which, in the case of a car, can also include its 
age and mileage. There are limits to this responsibility, however, which is that is that any 
faults must be present or developing at the point of supply. In general faults that occur within 
the first six months of the agreement are considered more likely to have been present at the 
point of supply whereas its for the consumer to demonstrate that any faults occurring after 
that were present at that time.
I should add that where theres no clear information on any particular point, or the evidence available is disputed, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is whats 
more likely than not to have happened taking into account the available information and the 
wider circumstances of the case.
Ive seen theres some disagreement as to when the faults occurred in this case. However, 
the independent report of January 2020 identified a number of faults, including faults with the 
EML and the diesel particulate filter (DPF). It concluded that:
 In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the issues found at 
the time of our inspection are consistent with DPF issues, although looking at previous 
diagnostics that were carried out within the first two months of vehicle being bought we can 
confirm that the engine management light has been on previously and fault codes (and 
faults) have been present and are still present.  and 
Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of 
sale, we consider the issues found would have been present or developing at that point of 
sale and the selling agent would be responsible for the cost of repairs and 
We would conclude the issues found at the time of our inspection were present at the point 
of sale having looked at the diagnostics and all other relevant documents. We do consider 
that the fault may be DPF issues and sudden faults. Having said that these issues have 
been materialised within the first 1000-2000 miles of use which would mean these issues 
were present at the point of sale.. It concluded that the vehicle was not of satisfactory 
quality at sale.
This was an independent report carried out by an experienced engineer and for that reason, 
I think its reasonable to rely on it and its conclusions.  Having done so I can see that the 
faults identified in this report were the same faults that have been reported with Mr Ks car 
since the date of its supply. Its also the case that these were the same faults found in the 
various diagnostic reports obtained by Mr K since 2017. 
In the circumstances I consider it more probable than not that these faults were present at 
the time the car was supplied to Mr K and that on that basis the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Putting things right
Ive considered whether Motonovo should now be allowed the opportunity to carry out a 
repair but its clear that this has already been attempted by the selling garage and it didnt 
work so I dont consider that it would be appropriate to require Mr K to wait longer to allow 
another attempt to be made.
In the circumstances I consider that its reasonable for Motonovo to allow Mr K to reject the 
car and end the agreement, which should be marked as settled on Mr Ks credit file. It should 
also arrange to collect the car from Mr K at no cost to him. In addition, I consider that its 
reasonable for Motonovo, on production of a valid receipt, to reimburse Mr K the cost of the 
independent inspection as well as the cost of the various diagnostic reports in 2017 and 
2018 obtained by Mr K on his car.
Mr K says the faults have lessened his use and enjoyment of the car and he feels Motonovo 
should also refund him at least 30% of his payments under this agreement. However, I can 
see that by the time of the inspection in January this year, Mr K had travelled 33,422 miles in 
the car so its fair to say that, despite the problems, hes had considerable use of the car. Ive 
also taken into account that Mr K could have reported the problem sooner and, if he had, 
then the problem would have been resolved sooner. In the circumstances I dont consider it would be fair to ask Motonovo to refund any of the payments made to date.
However, taking into account the problems Mr K has had and the time theyve lasted, Ive 
decided that it is reasonable for Motonovo to compensate him for the upset and 
inconvenience hes had as a result of whats happened. I consider £150 is a fair award for 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct First Rand Bank Limited trading 
as Motonovo Finance to:
a) allow Mr K to reject the car and to arrange to collect it at no cost to Mr K;
b) cancel the finance agreement and mark it as settled on Mr Ks credit file;
c) on production of a valid receipt, refund Mr K 
i. the cost of the independent inspection report in January 2020 and
ii. the cost of the diagnostic reports on this car;
d) pay Mr K £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by the 
ongoing problems with his car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman