DRN-2783332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about several aspects of their heating system and water damage 
claim dealt with by Covea Insurance plc under their home insurance policy.
Instead of referring to representatives and contractors provided by Covea I will refer to any 
of these as Covea.
Mr and Mrs R did use a loss assessor, but Ill refer to Mr and Mrs R throughout.
What happened
There are several aspects to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Some of these points were raised 
right from the start and some have been added as the problems continued.
The floor tiles going across two rooms;
Being charged two excesses;
Not being paid out for the loss of metered water  and instead being paid £150 as an
apology;
Radiator and floor damage;
How Covea operates.
Covea said the policy excluded undamaged tiles in another room so it wouldnt pay for the 
extended area. But it agreed that mistakes had been made and confirmed that Mr and Mrs R 
only had to pay one excess. Mr and Mrs R received a huge utility bill and initially Covea 
agreed that it would pay out for the loss of metered water. But it then worked out that the 
damage hadnt been caused by accidental damage so the policy wording wouldnt operate. 
Instead it said that the failed joint that allowed the leak had suffered from wear and tear and 
so the damage wasnt covered under the policy. But it accepted it had delayed this and had 
said in the first instance that it would pay for this. As an apology for the delay and further 
loss Mr and Mrs R had suffered Covea offered £150 as compensation. Mr and Mrs R 
declined this amount.
In relation to the radiator that fell off the wall Mr and Mrs R said this was because Covea had 
moved it when it drained the system. Their independent expert said this mustve been the 
reason as Covea wouldnt have drained the system from the boiler, so it mustve dislodged 
the radiator when draining from it. Covea disagreed and said the radiator hadnt been 
touched and the boiler had been used to drain the system. It said as it hadnt touched the 
radiator it couldnt be responsible for the floor damage when the radiator fell off the wall.
As Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with these answers, they then complained about how Covea 
had dealt with them throughout their complaints and how it operates as an insurer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the key issues were the cost of 
metered water and the floor damage. Regarding the metered water she accepted the details 
showing the damage was caused by failed joints and this wasnt accidental damage. She felt 
the £150 offered by Covea for the error it made when it originally said it would pay the 
metered water costs was fair. Regarding the radiator falling off the wall our investigator said 
shed reviewed the reports following work at the property and there was nothing to show the 
radiator had been touched despite Mr and Mrs Rs comments. Without evidence she didnt 
uphold this part of the complaint either.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. Mr and Mrs R also pointed out that they didnt think issues with the 
floor damage had been dealt with or that theyd been paid out £500 under the trace and 
access section of the policy.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Replacement of floor tiles
Specialists were employed to check out the issues regarding the heating and water system 
at Mr and Mrs Rs home. The reports Ive seen link the issues to a leak in the utility room of 
the property. Tiles had to be taken up and these tiles, although the rest were undamaged, 
ran from the utility room and into the kitchen. Mr and Mrs R said Covea should pay for the 
replacement of all the tiles while Covea said it would only pay for the damaged area.
Covea referred to its policy wording:
How we settle your Claim
Your Buildings Cover  Section A
If a wooden, laminate or vinyl floor covering is damaged beyond repair we will only pay for 
the damaged floor covering. We will not pay for undamaged floor coverings in adjoining 
rooms even if they are the same colour or design.
From the details Ive seen it seems the kitchen floor wasnt damaged by the leak. Based on 
this I think Covea acted reasonably when it referred to its policy wording. I think this means it 
could limit any settlement amount to the damaged area.
Two excesses
It does seem as though there was confusion due to the number of parties involved in the 
claim and potentially due to the number of leaks involved. But I can see that any confusion 
was eventually picked up on by Covea. It apologised and confirmed only one policy excess 
would apply. So, I think it acted reasonably on this issue.
Metered water loss
It is accepted by all parties that from the start Covea said it would deal with the claim for the 
metered water loss. The policy wording says:
We also pay for loss of metered water or of domestic fuel from the home following 
accidental damage to the fixed water heating installation. The most we will pay is £2,000.
So, for a time it was accepted that Covea was going to pay an amount towards 
Mr and Mrs Rs utility bill. But it was eventually cleared up that the expert checks found that 
the cause of the leak was a failed joint caused by wear and tear. Covea said that wear and 
tear wasnt covered, and this meant the damage hadnt been caused by accidental damage. 
Covea accepted that this would upset Mr and Mrs R as it hadnt got this right from the start. 
Covea apologised and offered £150 as compensation for the delay, distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr and Mrs R.I can understand how this wouldve upset Mr and Mrs R. They were expecting to get a 
significant amount of money from Covea who had initially agreed to pay. But I have to review 
what the policy said, and in this case, it seems the expert specialists were in agreement 
about what caused the leak. So, even though initially Covea had said it would pay the claim I 
think it acted reasonably when it realised it had got this wrong and offered compensation and 
an apology instead. I think the £150 offer is fair.
Damage to the kitchen flooring and radiator
The situation around the radiator falling off the wall and damaging the floor is an odd one. 
Theres nothing in the evidence that really throws any doubt on what either party has told 
this service. Mr and Mrs R got the independent engineers opinion and he said Covea 
wouldve used the radiator to drain the system.
But to counter that Covea responded and said it wouldnt have touched the radiator and that 
it had drained the system from the boiler. As our investigator pointed out none of the reports 
referred to the radiator being used for draining the system.
So, theres no evidence to show if anyone loosened the radiator from its wall fixings. Covea 
said as the evidence has also been dispensed with it cant check this any further. In the 
circumstances there isnt enough detail for me to ask Covea to take any further action on this 
issue. I dont think its acted unreasonably.
In terms of how Covea has handled their claim I can understand that Mr and Mrs R are upset 
with the outcome. Could Covea have dealt with the issues better  Im sure they couldve 
done. But I think the real factor for Mr and Mrs R was the amount that they thought they 
should be paid for the metered water loss. In their position I think anyone would feel the 
same. But I dont think Covea was wrong when it decided not to pay for this. I think the offer 
it made of £150 was reasonable. I dont think it needs to do any more.
Mr and Mrs R also pointed out that Covea owe them £500 under the trace and access 
section of the policy. But when our investigator asked Covea about this it said this amount 
had been paid out to experts that did the work during the claim. As it doesnt appear that this 
point has been fully communicated between the parties, I cant make a finding on it. 
Mr and Mrs R need to raise this directly with Covea and if the matter cannot be resolved it 
might end up becoming a new complaint to this service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs R made several points, but Ill concentrate on the main issues linked directly to 
their complaint:
The boiler couldnt have been drained down without interference to the radiator;
I should telephone and speak to the engineer;
Radiators do not just fall off walls;
How did Covea drain the system  it cant be done from the boiler;
How long did it take Covea to send out a track and trace team;
Covea agreed to cover the water meter loss;
The length of time and the amount of calls made by Mr and Mrs R to get Covea to respond 
to the leak claim.
Covea had nothing further to add in relation to the provisional decision other than to say if 
Mr and Mrs R do wish to raise a complaint regarding the £500 under the trace and access 
section of the policy, it would review this and provide them with a response.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about this. But as I referred to in my provisional 
decision theres been no evidence to show is anyone loosened the radiator from the wall 
fixings. Covea had accepted that if the evidence had still been available it wouldve checked 
this. I dont think thats unreasonable. There isnt enough evidence for me to ask Covea to 
take further action on this point.
In relation to issues of delays and how long things took Mr and Mrs R are asking me about 
this but really these are points that are between them and Covea. As Covea has accepted 
Mr and Mrs R can go back to it over the trace and access issue they can also raise any other 
points that havent been already resolved at the same time.
Regarding the metered water loss, I agree that initially Covea said it would cover this. I dont 
think thats disputed. But when it checked its policy wording it changed its position. Based on 
the wording I think that was reasonable.
Theres nothing in the responses that lead me to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman