DRN-3534206
The complaint
Mr A says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a fixed sum loan provided by Loans 2 Go to Mr A in May 2018. The 
loan was for £600 and was to be repaid by Mr A over 18 months. There is a balance that 
remains to be paid by Mr A to a third party, as Loans 2 Go sold the debt to them.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr A it carried out a credit 
check and asked him for details about his income and expenditure. It verified Mr As income 
and also went through the credit check to look through Mr As credit commitments. It then 
calculated what it thought was Mr As disposable income to see if the loan repayments were 
affordable. Based on those checks Loans 2 Go thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the amount that Mr A borrowed, the repayment and term of loan, I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to Loans 2 Go the loan was 
affordable and Mr A could sustain the repayments over the term. There is a County Court 
Judgment that Loans 2 Go would have seen in the credit check it carried out and I think it 
ought to have considered this when it agreed to lend to Mr A. It would have also seen that 
Mr A had taken on a fairly significant loan several months before he asked for this one. But 
with the information it had in front of it, it would have seen that the repayments for this loan 
were sustainably affordable. 
I appreciate Mr A has said, through his representatives, that the loan was unaffordable and 
that he had difficulties with his finances. But I dont think this is something Loans 2 Go knew 
or ought to have known about from what I consider to be proportionate checks. 
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr A didnt respond. Loans 2 Go responded and had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman