DRN-3771074
The complaint
Mr H complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly accepted liability 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr H collided into the back of a third-party vehicle when driving his own vehicle. He made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
Mr H also contacted the dealership where he bought the vehicle as he said the brakes on 
the vehicle had failed when he tried to stop. He said they should be liable for the accident as 
they had sold him a vehicle with faulty brakes.
Admiral accepted and settled the claim. It was recorded as a fault accident on Mr Hs policy.
Mr H said Admiral should not have settled the claim. He said Admiral should have 
investigated his claim of the vehicle having no brakes and it should have pursued the dealer 
where he bought the vehicle for the loss. He said the dealer was liable.
Admiral said it would not be able to do this. It said the purpose of Mr Hs insurance is to 
indemnify him following an incident. It said it had fulfilled its end of the contract. It added the 
onus was on Mr H as the purchaser of the vehicle to ensure the relevant checks were 
completed. It said it cannot be held responsible for this nor is it its duty to investigate further.
As Mr H was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and thought Admiral 
acted reasonably. They said Admiral relied on an expert opinion to come to their decision. 
And in addition, they agree this would be a private dispute between Mr H and the dealership 
he bought the vehicle from.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as ultimately thats a matter for the
courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Hs policy allows Admiral to settle claims as it sees fit. 
That means Admiral doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim. So it may 
make a decision that he doesnt agree with. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and on page 21 it says;
Defending or settling a claim 
We are entitled to:
- Conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf.
This means that Admiral can legally settle the claim as it best sees fit. And in this case it has  
settled his claim and recorded the fault against Mr H.
I have seen that Mr H feels very strongly that the dealership that sold him the vehicle should 
be held liable for the incident and not him. He thinks there was an issue with the vehicle 
brakes when he bought it. He said a visual safety report produced by the dealer in 
January 2022 before he bought it should have picked up the brake faults and corrosion etc. 
He thinks Admiral should have pursued the dealer rather than settle his claim.
After the accident Admiral obtained an assessment on the vehicle. At the request of Mr H the 
independent assessor looked at the brakes. This established the brake pads were wearing 
thin but were not below the legal limit.
Mr H wanted further inspection of the vehicle rear brakes and eventually obtained an 
independent assessment of the vehicle which found all brake pads to be intact. The 
mechanic who undertook this assessment made a comparison to brake failure due to the 
ABS unit in other cases, and Mr H provided a number of newspaper articles on this issue. 
Mr H also said he had discovered that there had been a brake master cylinder recall notice 
on his type of vehicle. 
I acknowledge that as well as having industry experience, Mr H has undertaken a lot of 
research into what may have happened to his brakes. But I have seen no specific evidence 
to prove what happened in this case. 
When there is a dispute over who was at fault for an accident, insurers consider what a court 
is most likely to conclude based on the evidence available. 
If Admiral felt it had a reasonable chance of success it may be in its interests to pursue the 
garage who had sold Mr H the vehicle, but it is ultimately Admirals decision to make. I
Admiral said that in this case even if it were proven that the brakes had failed on Mr Hs 
vehicle it would not have contested liability on this claim. It said it reviewed this claim as a 
team and did not feel that it had any grounds of recovery from the selling garage. As such it 
recorded it as a fault claim.
Unfortunately, the onus is not on Admiral to pursue the dealership. If Mr H wanted to pursue 
the dealership for liability this would be a matter he would need to pursue himself, separately 
to his insurance claim. I am unable to tell Admiral to do this.
I think Admiral were correct to maintain its decision to record this accident as fault against Mr 
Hs policy based on the evidence available to it. I understand he will be very disappointed, 
but I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
Service provided by AdmiralAs I reviewed the evidence it was clear that Mr H did not receive a good service at all times. 
I saw that he had been left on hold on the phone, there was a lack of communication and 
follow up from Admiral and promised actions were not completed 
I can understand why Mr H was unhappy with the service given.
I have seen that Admiral accepted it had provided a less than satisfactory service to him. It 
apologised and in recognition of the poor service received paid him £100 for the trouble and 
upset its actions caused.
I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything further 
in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman