DRN-3565813
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited unfairly turned down his claim under s. 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr B bought two points-based timeshares from a supplier, Business X, in March 2001 
and September 2011. In both instances Mr B says that he paid for those timeshares 
using his MBNA credit card. He says that he paid £2,149 to fund the first purchase and 
a further £4,099 to fund the second purchase.
The credit card in question was in Mr Bs name and therefore only he has the right to 
bring the complaint. This decision will therefore refer to Mr B throughout.
Mr B says the points-based timeshares were misrepresented to him. He says he was 
initially told hed have access to first class holidays at cheaper rates. He also says that he 
purchased further points 10 years later as he was given the same assurances but was 
told he needed more points to achieve this.
Mr B says that the standard of some of the resorts was lower than he was initially 
shown, and the quality of the resorts varied. He says that he was told his points were 
attached to a specific property, but this turned out to be untrue. The initial sale lasted 
several hours, and he felt pressured into proceeding with the purchase as a result. He 
says he was forced to pay maintenance fees at increasing rates, despite being promised 
that wouldnt occur. And although he was promised first class holidays at exclusive rates 
(when compared to non-members), that turned out to be untrue. He also argues that he 
thought the payments he made were to Business X rather than a third party, which Ill 
call Business Y. Overall, therefore, Mr B argues that, if the points-based timeshares 
hadnt been misrepresented to him, he wouldnt have proceeded with the purchases.
In June 2020 Mr B, using a representative, made a s.75 CCA claim to MBNA in 
respect of both transactions. MBNA responded and argued that Mr B didnt have the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship needed to make a s.75 CCA 
claim. This was because the payments in question were made to Business Y, rather 
than the supplier, Business X, directly. In addition, MBNA said that Mr B raised his 
claims outside the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) and 
as such they were raised too late.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think that MBNA needed 
to do anything further. He agreed that the claims under s.75 CCA were brought too 
late. So, he didnt think MBNA needed to consider the substance of the claims. Mr B 
and his representatives disagreed with the assessment and made a number of points 
in response, which Ive summarised below:
The investigator didnt address the DCS issue and relied on a limitation 
defence, which MBNA hadnt raised.
Section 2 and s.9 LA start from the date of cause of action. However, the 
limitation period can be postponed under s.32 LA in cases where there is fraud 
and/or concealment.
oMr Bs representatives argue that the timeshare provider 
fraudulently misrepresented the timeshare.
oHis representative also argues that Mr B was not made aware of the 
disadvantageous parts of his exclusive membership at the time of the 
sale or at any point thereafter so this was concealed from him.
oMr B only became aware when he saw coverage online about 
timeshare mis-selling and high-profile financial services claims.
An ombudsman is able to depart from relevant law in determining what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, they can choose not to rely on 
a defence which MBNA hasnt raised, and instead take a holistic view of 
matters.
Section 8 LA allows for a 12-year limitation period.
Mr Bs representative also referred to a number of cases to support their 
arguments and an ombudsmans decision.
As an agreement hasnt been reached this case has been referred to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the following:
Whilst MBNA can locate the September 2011 payment, MBNAs records dont go 
back far enough to locate a payment in March 2001. However, Mr B argues the 
payment was made on his MBNA credit card and MBNA hasnt disputed this. In 
addition, MBNA was provided with the receipt from Business Y, which includes a full 
card number used to make the payment. And I think if this wasnt an MBNA card 
number, I would have expected MBNA to challenge this. Therefore, on balance I was 
persuaded this payment was made using Mr Bs MBNA credit card. 
I didnt think I needed to make a formal finding on whether or not there was a DCS 
relationship for either claim. This is because even if there was a DCS relationship in 
place in relation to each transaction, I still thought MBNA would have a complete 
defence to the claim.
I thought both s.75 CCA claims were raised outside the relevant limitation periods 
under the Limitation Act (LA). And that the relevant time frame was six years (under 
s.2 and s9 LA). To summarise, Mr B raised misrepresentation arguments and had it 
not been for those misrepresentations he wouldnt have entered either timeshare 
contracts. So, the start date for limitation purposes was the date he entered the 
contracts. And as Mr B, via his representatives, didnt raise the claim until June 2020, 
both claims were raised outside the relevant limitation periods. I therefore concluded 
MBNA acted fairly in declining the s.75 claims. 
I clarified that MBNA did raise a defence under the LA in its letter of 28 July 2020 to 
Mr B and his representatives, a copy of which his representatives provided. MBNA 
explained that it thought the claims for misrepresentation were raised too late under 
the LA.
I didnt agree that the limitation period should be extended under s.32 LA (which 
deals with circumstances of fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake). This section 
allows the limitation period to be extended to the point at which the claimant was aware or could reasonably have become aware, of the issues theyre now claiming 
for, by exercising reasonable diligence. Mr Bs representative had said Mr B wasnt 
aware of the issues hes now claiming about until a high-profile case and media 
interest. But this doesnt explain how the issues in question were concealed from him 
or how and why the supplier acted fraudulently. And I also thought the other issues 
raised, wouldve become clear to him when he started going on holidays. So again I 
didnt think these arguments extended the limitation periods.
I explained my understanding of s.8 LA was that it applies to documents under a seal 
and I didnt think Mr B and his representatives had explained why they thought s.8 LA 
applied to Mr Bs claims. So, I didnt think Mr B and his representatives could rely on 
it to argue a 12-year limitation period. 
Finally, I agreed with Mr B and his representatives comments that I can depart from 
the law when I think its fair and reasonable to do so. However, in the circumstances 
of this case, Mr B has raised his claims 19 and 9 years after the alleged 
misrepresentations had taken place so I thought it was both fair and reasonable to 
apply the relevant limitation period. 
MBNA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B and his representatives made a 
number of points in response, which Ill summarise below. 
They reiterated their arguments as to why they feel there is a debtor creditor supplier 
relationship, despite the payment being made to Business Y and not Business X 
directly. 
In relation to s.32 LA, they argue that Mr B was never informed that his holidays 
would be of limited use and subject to availability. This was not made known to Mr B.
They disagree with my interpretation of s.8 LA. They argue it applies to claims in 
speciality and they argue it applies in this case. They cite caselaw which they feel 
supports their argument. They have also explained that, whilst they dont agree with 
the point that the limitation periods start from when Mr B entered the contract, even if 
those dates were accurate as start dates for limitation, it would mean the second 
claim was made in time if s.8 LA is applied.
They argue that, because there is an ongoing liability to pay maintenance fees, Mr B 
has a continuing course of action each time a new debt is enforced given the 
unfairness this creates. Mr B and his representatives cite case law to support their 
position and acknowledge this isnt an argument which they raised previously. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice. And having done that, 
Im not going to tell MBNA to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive 
explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
And I want to assure Mr B that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr B, together with his representatives, say that the Business X misrepresented the nature 
of the membership to him when he bought it. Under sections 2 and 9 of the LA, Mr B had to 
make that claim within six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit 
agreements. This is because thats when he says he lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact, so I think these are the relevant start dates for the claims in question. 
As detailed above, Mr B entered into the agreements in March 2001 and September 2011. 
And as Mr B first made a claim to MBNA in June 2020, that fell outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA. 
Ive reconsidered the arguments in relation to s.32 LA. However, I find it unlikely that Mr B 
wouldnt have noticed as soon as his memberships commenced that the relevant resorts 
werent exclusive and that there wasnt unlimited availability. After all, his attempts to holiday 
would have drawn those issues to his attention. And with that being the case, in the absence 
of anything from his representative to persuade me that these aspects of his memberships 
were fraudulently and deliberately concealed, I still dont think s32 LA extends the limitation 
period for either claim.
Ive considered the arguments from Mr Bs representatives in relation to s.8 LA. But I still 
dont think it applies to the claims in question. The redress Mr Bs representatives are 
seeking on his behalf are refunds of the money paid for the points bases timeshares. The 
relevant caselaw on this is clear that this is an action to which s.9 LA applies. That means 
the relevant limitation period is six years from the date on which a cause of action accrued. 
And Ive explained above why I think Mr B raised his claims outside of the limitation period 
which applies.
Mr Bs representatives acknowledge that their arguments in relation to the ongoing 
unfairness of the relationship between Mr B and MBNA isnt an argument they have raised 
before. And for that reason, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to consider it now for the first 
time when MBNA hasnt been given the chance to consider it first.  So, Mr B and his 
representatives will need to raise it with MBNA in the first instance.
Overall, therefore, I think both the s.75 CCA claims were raised too late under the LA and so 
I dont think MBNA acted unfairly in declining the claims.  
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman