DRN-2202280
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants her policy excess waived and compensation for her 
inconvenience. 
What happened
One Insurance took Mrs Ps car to its approved garage after its catalytic converter was 
stolen. Mrs P was unhappy that she wasnt provided with a courtesy car until 12 days later. 
She said she spent long periods waiting for her calls to be answered when she wanted 
updates. 
Mrs Ps car was declared to be a total loss and she decided to retain the salvage. But she 
said her car had been further damaged following her claim. One Insurance offered to waive 
half of Mrs Ps £250 policy excess for the delays in the claim. But Mrs P wanted all this 
waived and compensation for her trouble and upset.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought One 
Insurance had reasonably chased the garage when it learned of delays and then changed it 
to avoid further delays in the claim. He thought Mrs P was only entitled to a courtesy car 
whilst her car was being repaired. He thought One Insurance hadnt deliberately kept Mrs P 
waiting on the phone. 
But he thought One Insurance hadnt made Mrs P aware of the additional damage before 
she decided to retain the salvage. He didnt think One Insurance should waive Mrs Ps 
excess. But he thought it should consider the cost of the additional damage it had caused to 
Mrs Ps car. 
One Insurance replied that the pre-loss value paid to Mrs P minus the salvage covered the 
cost of any repairs. It thought Mrs P had bought a salvage car and any further payment for 
repairs would be betterment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has raised a number of concerns about how One Insurance handled her claim. I can 
look at two of these concerns here. These are the delay in providing a courtesy car and its 
level of service, and the damage to her car whilst it was with One Insurance. Mrs P was also 
unhappy with One Insurances valuation of her car. But thats a separate complaint and so I 
cant consider that here. 
Mrs P has explained that she needed a courtesy car for family reasons, and she asked for 
one when her car was taken to the approved repairers. This couldnt be actioned until the 
claim had been validated the following day. 
But then the garage had to order the part and wouldnt provide a courtesy car until this had 
arrived. It wasnt until a week later that Mrs P told One Insurance that she still hadnt 
received a courtesy car. It then changed the garage and one was provided some days later. 
One Insurance paid Mrs P £125 compensation for these delays. 
Mrs Ps car was then deemed to be a total loss at the second garage and One Insurance 
asked for the courtesy car to be returned. But Mrs P wanted a valuation first. And I can see 
that Mrs P still retained the car three weeks later as she hadnt accepted the valuation. From 
what I can see, Mrs P was allowed to keep the courtesy car for a month after it had been 
deemed to be a total loss. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. So Ive looked at Mrs Ps policy 
to see what the terms and conditions provide. Mrs P had comprehensive cover. And on page 
6 of the policy booklet, it states:
If you have a Comprehensive policy and need the use of a car while your own is undergoing 
repair by one of our selected repairers we will provide you with a temporary replacement car
And then the booklet explains on page 9 that a courtesy car wont be provided when Mrs Bs 
car is deemed beyond economical repair. Mrs Ps car was taken for repair by an approved 
repairer. So Im satisfied that One Insurances should have provided a courtesy during the 
time repairs were planned after the claim had been validated, the day after notification of the 
theft. 
I dont think it was fair for the repairer not to provide a courtesy car because it was waiting 
for a part. I think Mrs P had made it clear why she needed a car. She was entitled to one 
whilst repairs were attempted, and one should have been provided. But I can see that One 
Insurance did act to correct this by changing the garage once the issue had been raised. 
Mrs P was without a courtesy car for 12 days. But I can see that she did have access to a 
relatives car during this time and so she wasnt without transport. And then she retained the 
car for a month after her car was deemed to be beyond economical repair, which is a policy 
exclusion. 
Mrs P then decided to retain the cars salvage and have her garage make the repairs. Mrs P 
then found that One Insurance wanted to charge her £150 to release her car and £150 to 
deliver it. One Insurance agreed that it hadnt told Mrs P about these charges and it agreed 
to waive the release fee. 
One Insurance offered Mrs P £125 compensation for the delay in providing the car and the 
frequent calls Mrs P had to make for updates. I think, given the waiver of the release fee and 
the continued provision of the car outside the policy terms, this was fair and reasonable. So I 
dont require One Insurance to reimburse all of Mrs Ps excess or pay her further 
compensation.
But when her car was returned to her, Mrs P said there were dents in its roof. One Insurance 
agreed that these had been caused by the salvage yard where the car had been stored to 
mitigate costs. The salvage yard had used grabs to move the car around. One Insurance 
said that Mrs P had bought a salvaged car and so it wasnt responsible for any damage 
caused whilst the car was in its possession. 
Again Ive looked at the policy document. On page 8 it states,
If your car is a total loss, we may put it in free and safe storage until your claim is settled. 
We will also be entitled to take possession of your car once we have settled your claim.
Our approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor 
insurance policy, as Mrs Ps car was, the insurer, in this case One Insurance, becomes the 
owner of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
So the car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to keep it if 
they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. I cant see from its file notes that One Insurance told Mrs P about this further damage before 
she decided to retain and repair her car. I think this was unfair and Mrs P, if shed known 
about the new damage caused, may have made a different decision.  
One Insurance thought that if it considered the additional damage to the car, then this would 
lead to betterment. But I disagree. This is because I think this damage was caused by One 
Insurances agent after the theft claim and before the claim had been settled. Under the 
policy terms and conditions the car was supposed to be in safe storage. But it wasnt. 
So I agree with the investigator that One Insurance is responsible for this new damage to 
Mrs Ps car. I think it should have reasonably told her about it before she decided to retain 
her car.  And I havent seen that One Insurance has allowed for this repair cost in its 
settlement to Mrs P. So I think One Insurance hasnt treated Mrs P fairly and I think it should 
now do this. Mrs P has already provided photographs of the damage so an estimate of the 
repair costs can be made. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to consider and pay the costs of the additional damage it 
caused to Mrs Ps car in settlement of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require One Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman