DRN-1600430
 
The complaint
Mrs A says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm where or when the 
policy was taken out. Mrs A recalls it was in a meeting and the bank has agreed the sale can 
be reviewed on that basis. Lloyds assumes the PPI was taken out in 1998 when the card 
started, although its records dont show PPI being charged on the account until 2000. The 
policy gave Mrs A protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely 
given the available evidence and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. 
In response to the adjudicators view, Mrs A said we appear to have concluded in the banks 
favour because it failed to maintain records. But as an independent and impartial 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to 
find in the favour of one party over the other. I dont think its unreasonable the bank doesnt 
have all the paperwork from Mrs As sale given it was so long ago.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs A said  that the bank made her feel taking the 
insurance would help get her application approved. There isnt much information to go on in 
this case, because everything happened so long ago. As I said, I dont think its surprising or 
unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mrs As application form any more. From what we know 
about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards between 1998 and 2000, I think its likely Lloyds 
wouldve made Mrs A aware she had a choice about PPI. The sample of the application form 
shes likely to have used shows she would have needed to tick a box to take out PPI. 
I have taken into account Mrs As comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mrs A without giving her a choice, and her 
agreeing to take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A. This means Lloyds had to make sure 
it was right for her. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs A was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, 
but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. 
It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover allowing her to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Mrs A 
said she had savings worth less than three months salary. The PPI would have allowed her 
to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her 
future needs. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mrs A if she was sick or lost 
her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, based on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems she wouldnt 
have been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And, given what we know about 
the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these years, the policy wouldve been competitively 
priced and it was apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs A wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs A has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman