DRN-3987727
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle).
  
What happened
In September 2022 Miss E acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. 
Miss E said she noticed issues with the vehicle within five days and tried to contact the 
dealership, but they didnt respond. 
At the end of September 2022 Miss E complained to Oodle about the quality of the car. She 
said the windscreen was misting due to a chip and it wouldnt clear, the glovebox cover was 
falling off and exposing wires, and the engine was noisy which indicated a hole in the 
exhaust. 
Miss E sent Oodle another email at the end of September 2022 to rise additional issues with 
the car. She said it was juddering and cutting out, getting stuck in second gear and the front 
number plate kept falling off. Miss E told Oodle that shed returned the car to the dealership. 
Miss E told Oodle in October 2022 that she wanted to reject the car.
Oodle said the dealership had been unable to find the faults Miss E had complained about, 
and so they arranged for an inspection of the car which took place at the end of October 
2022. The engineer that inspected the car concluded that they were unable to replicate most 
of the reported faults. They said the chip on the windscreen would meet MOT standards, no 
steaming of the windscreen occurred during testing, the engine started and ran as expected 
with no juddering or excessive noise. They said the gearbox operated correctly in manual 
and automatic modes, and that the glovebox and number plate had been secured. 
Oodle sent Miss E their final response to her complaint in November 2022. They said the 
videos Miss E had supplied didnt evidence a fault, and the dealership and engineer had 
been unable to find a mechanical fault. Oodle said the glovebox and numberplate had been 
repaired, and so they wouldnt allow Miss E to reject the vehicle, and she needed to collect 
the car from the dealership. 
Unhappy with this, Miss E brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
shed had many issues with the car and her communication was ignored. Miss E said shed 
taken the vehicle back to the dealership, but late payments were being marked on her credit 
file. Miss E said she wanted to reject the car and for it to be removed from her credit file. 
Our investigator gave her view that there was no evidence of a fault in respect of the engine, 
gearbox, or windscreen misting. She didnt think the windscreen chip, glovebox or number 
plate issues made the car of unsatisfactory quality, and so she didnt think Oodle needed to 
do anything more. 
Miss E didnt agree. She said shed provided evidence of the faults, and the car had too 
many issues for it to be considered normal wear. Miss E said the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and she had the right to reject it. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Oodle as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £15,000. It was eight years old 
and had travelled around 61,000 miles at the time of supply. 
When a person acquires a used car like Miss E its reasonable to say that the expectation of 
quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for 
the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The 
chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Ive seen the photos provided by Miss E of the chip in the windscreen, and the glovebox 
cover coming loose. Ive also seen evidence that the number plate was re-secured to the 
front of Miss Es car. So, Im persuaded that there was evidence of faults in these areas. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether these faults made Miss Es car of unsatisfactory quality 
at the time it was supplied. 
The windscreen chip was described by the engineer as being within tolerance to pass an 
MOT test and was described as being approximately 10mm. Given the age and mileage of 
the car at the time Miss E acquired it, I think a reasonable person would expect some 
cosmetic damage of this nature to be evident, and so Im not persuaded that the chipped 
windscreen made it of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Id also have expected 
Miss E to have inspected the condition of the car prior to acquiring it, and for her to have 
raised this at the time if she was unhappy with its condition. 
The glovebox cover and number plate werent secure, and these items have been repaired 
at no cost to Miss E. Fixings and trims do wear over time and given the age and mileage of 
the car at the time it was supplied, I think a reasonable person might expect that some repairs of this nature may be needed. As a result, I dont think these faults made the vehicle 
of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. 
Ive seen the videos that Miss E has supplied for the engine noise and the gear selection. Its 
not clear from these videos whether the engine noise is excessively loud, or exactly what 
conditions the car was in where gear selection is being shown. So, Im not persuaded that 
these videos alone evidence that there is a fault with the car. 
Ive seen the report provided by the engineer that inspected Miss Es car. The engineer has 
tested the car, including a road test. They found no steaming of the windscreen, and no 
issues with the engine or the gearbox. The engineer concluded that there was no excessive 
noise from the engine, and that the noise level was considered normal for the type of vehicle 
and type of engine. They also concluded that the gearbox operated correctly in both 
automatic and manual modes, and the paddle shift operated as expected when changing 
gears. Im persuaded by this report that there isnt currently a fault relating to the windscreen 
steam, gearbox, or noise of the engine on Miss Es car. 
I think, that at eight years old and having covered around 61,000 miles, Miss Es car was 
around the age when a reasonable person might start to expect that some wear related, or 
even relatively serious repairs may be needed. As a result, I find that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss E, and she isnt entitled to reject the vehicle under the 
CRA. 
I understand that Miss E feels strongly about not wanting to drive the car and has made 
alternative arrangements for transport. If Miss E wishes to end the agreement, she may wish 
to discuss her exit options with Oodle.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman