DRN-3731380
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed 
its accounts and declined its application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan Scheme.
Es director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with Barclays, holding a business current account and two foreign currency 
accounts. 
In or around May 2020, Mr S approached Barclays with a view to obtaining a loan for E 
under the government-backed Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme. 
Over the months that followed, there were a number of exchanges between Barclays and 
Mr S about Es CBIL application. The bank asked for various pieces of information, which 
Mr S provided. 
While the CBIL application was still ongoing, Barclays conducted a review of Es accounts. 
This led it to end its relationship with the company. The bank wrote to Mr S on 18 March to 
advise it would be closing Es accounts on 17 May, so the company would need to make 
alternative arrangements.
Barclays decision to withdraw its services from E also meant that it was unwilling to provide 
it with the CBIL. The bank confirmed this to Mr S by email on 24 March.
Barclays subsequently closed Es accounts  but in error, the bank closed the currency 
accounts on 16 April rather than 17 May.
Mr S doesnt think it was fair for Barclays to close Es accounts in the manner it did, which 
exacerbated the companys hardship during the coronavirus pandemic and without 
explaining its reasons. He also says that the bank didnt notify him that it was closing Es 
currency accounts, and that the premature closure and conversion of the balances held 
within them to Sterling  along with the deduction of the banks commission  caused the 
company a financial loss. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Barclays declined its request for assistance under the CBIL 
Scheme, and says that by the time it communicated the decision it was too late for E to 
apply elsewhere. The CBIL Scheme closed to new applications on 31 March 2021. 
All these issues, Mr S says, significantly disrupted Es operations and ultimately led to it 
closing down.
When Mr S complained to Barclays, the bank maintained its decision to withdraw services 
from E and said that its criteria for such decisions were confidential and couldnt be shared. 
It said that it had closed Es accounts in line with the terms and conditions, which had 
included giving appropriate notice so that the company had time to make alternative 
arrangements. And the decision to close Es accounts meant that the company was no 
longer eligible for a loan from the bank.
Barclays did, however, accept that it had closed Es currency accounts a month earlier than 
the date it had specified in its notice. It apologised for this error and offered E compensation 
of £225 for any inconvenience caused. It didnt think E had lost out financially, as the 
conversion rates used in April were preferable to those that wouldve been applied had the 
bank closed the accounts in May as it shouldve done.
Our investigator thought Barclays offer was a fair way to put things right, and didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. She said:
Barclays had been entitled to withdraw its services from E  just as Mr S couldve 
chosen to close Es account. And it had done so in accordance with the applicable 
terms and conditions. 
The bank wasnt required to provide the level of detail as to its decision and rationale 
that Mr S was seeking.
As Barclays accepted, it had closed Es currency accounts a month earlier than it 
should have. But she couldnt see that this had caused E a financial loss. The closing 
conversion rates had benefitted E and there was no evidence to show that the 
company had suffered any other losses as a result of these accounts being closed 
sooner than scheduled. So she thought the banks offer of £225 was fair, in order to 
compensate E for any inconvenience it had been caused. 
Barclays had been entitled to decline Es CBIL application and it hadnt done 
anything wrong in doing so, given the circumstances. And she couldnt see that the 
bank had caused any unreasonable delays in the process, noting that it had made 
legitimate requests for information during the process in order to assess the request.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The closure of Es accounts
Barclays was entitled to end its relationship with E, just as E was entitled to end its 
relationship with Barclays. The applicable terms and conditions gave Barclays the power to 
close the accounts at any time by giving at least two months notice. Having reviewed the 
basis of the banks decision, theres nothing that leads me to think this decision was reached 
incorrectly or unfairly.
Barclays wrote to E on 18 March with the requisite two months notice, advising that the 
accounts would be closed on 17 May. I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy at the timing of the 
closure  in light of the pandemic  and that the bank didnt disclose its rationale. But I cant 
say it did anything wrong in either respect. The notice period Barclays offered was that 
required under the terms of its agreement with E, and I think two months represented a 
reasonable period of time in which to make alternative arrangements even taking into 
account the exceptional circumstances of the time. While I appreciate Mr Ss desire to know why Barclays decided to withdraw its services, the reasons behind such decisions are 
subject to some legitimate confidentiality and the bank wasnt obliged to share any more 
detail about this than it did.
As Barclays has accepted, it did make an error in closing Es two currency accounts before 
the two-month notice period was up. It closed them both a month earlier than scheduled. So 
its right that the bank compensates E for any impact this error had. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the losses this caused E. But I cant see that the 
company did actually suffer a financial loss from the premature closure of its currency 
accounts. This is primarily because the rates at which Barclays converted the account 
balances to Sterling were preferable for E at the time of the actual closure in April, compared 
to those that wouldve applied had the bank closed the account when it shouldve done in 
May. The bank has explained and evidenced that it didnt charge commission on that 
conversion, contrary to Mr Ss suggestion. And Mr S hasnt provided anything to substantiate 
the costs he says E incurred in having to make alternative arrangements for payments 
because the accounts were closed early.
While E was always going to have to arrange alternative facilities in the light of Barclays 
legitimate decision to close its existing accounts, the premature closure of the two currency 
accounts curtailed the period of time within which it could do so. I can see how that wouldve 
put the company to some additional and avoidable inconvenience. For that, Barclays has 
already offered compensation of £225 and Ive not seen anything to suggest a higher figure 
is warranted.
The CBIL application
As I understand Mr S accepts, Barclays was entitled to decline Es CBIL application. 
Ultimately, once Barclays had decided to end its relationship with E, the bank wasnt willing 
to consider any lending application from it. Theres nothing unreasonable in that, however 
frustrating it wouldve been for Mr S to be in that position after several months pursuing the 
matter.
Mr Ss main concern is how long it took Barclays to confirm its decision, having begun 
liaising with the bank about the CBIL application in or around May 2020 and only being told 
in mid-March 2021 that the bank wasnt willing to lend. I do have some sympathy for that 
argument, given that the deadline for CBIL applications was 31 March  meaning he only 
had a fortnight to seek an alternative. While I dont think it wouldve been impossible for E to 
ensure an application was submitted elsewhere in time, I can see that the timeframe 
wouldve made things challenging  alongside everything else Mr S and his company 
wouldve been dealing with around this time. Either way, for me to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint Id need to find that Barclays was responsible for some unreasonable or excessive 
delay. And I dont think it was.
Although the process was ongoing for some ten months or so, Barclays was in regular 
contact with Mr S  and much of the time taken was in the bank gathering the information it 
needed from Mr S to assess the request. Its requests for information were reasonable, 
relating to Es financial performance, the impact of the pandemic on its operations and its 
ability to afford the repayments of the prospective loan. During this time, Barclays made 
clear on a couple of occasions why it was unwilling to lend on the terms initially sought by 
Mr S. So it wasnt that one application was pending for all this time  rather, the proposal 
was rejected and amended during the ongoing dialogue, and further information was needed 
so that the bank could assess the revised proposals. While there were occasions on which Barclays didnt get back to Mr S as quickly as it could 
have  meaning that he had to chase things up  none of these delays were so 
unreasonable or excessive as to make me think that Es position was materially impacted or 
that any compensation is warranted.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require 
Barclays to pay E any more compensation than the £225 it originally offered to pay.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay E compensation of £225 to settle 
the complaint and, for the reasons set out above, I think this offer is fair. 
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay E £225.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman