DRN-4418547
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited provided a poor standard of service when she 
made a claim under her policy about a leaking taps.  
 
What happened
Mrs K held an insurance policy with Aviva to cover home emergency repairs. 
On 21 November 2022 Mrs K reported an issue with her bath and basin taps, and Avivas 
engineer attended and replaced them.  
Mrs K then complained to Aviva that the engineer had damaged her bath panel when doing 
the work, and later also complained that he had scratched her sink. 
Aviva responded to the complaint and agreed to replace the bath panel and the sink but 
there were some delays and this wasnt completed until February - Aviva accept this. 
Mrs K then further complained that the replacement sink was small and didnt hold much 
water. 
The engineer returned to assess it and reported back to Aviva that the new pedestal is 
bigger than the previous one, and sits at a very slight angle, causing it to leave a small pool 
of water in the basin when it was emptied.  The only way to resolve this would be to re tile 
the bathroom floor.  Aviva were not willing to do this but offered Mrs K £515 compensation 
for the customer service failings and the ongoing impairment to her sink.
    
Mrs K was unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to us.
 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint. He thought that Avivas offer was 
fair. 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Aviva have properly fulfilled their obligations under the terms of 
the policy, and whether the service they provided was in line with what we would expect  
and if it wasnt, what is appropriate to put things right for Mrs K.  
I can see that Aviva have accepted responsibility for the damage caused to the sink and 
bath during the original repair. This damage occurred because they had some difficulty 
removing the old taps which had seized and had to be cut away.
Initially, after Aviva accepted the complaint and agreed to replace the bath panel and taps, 
Mrs K was unhappy with the replacements offered, but later agreed that provided they were 
of the same quality she would accept them. This confusion over parts led to repeat visits by 
the contractors, and some delay in getting the issue resolved  so the replacement basin 
wasnt fitted until February. 
 
Unfortunately, as the previous basin pedestal was smaller, the tiles went around the 
pedestal, but the new pedestal sat on top of the tiles, which made it a fraction higher and put 
it at a slight angle. This caused a small amount of water to pool in the basin when it was 
emptied. I understand that Avivas engineers have subsequently packed the base, and the 
sink was draining normally on their visit of 15 March, although I appreciate its not an exact 
match for what was there before. 
I can understand why Mrs K feels unhappy about this, as her bathroom isnt quite the same 
as previously. However, I am satisfied that Aviva have met their duty under the terms of the 
policy to replace the taps, and they have also made good the damage that was caused but 
their engineer in completing that job. I dont think its reasonable for them to replace the tiles, 
as the bathroom is fully functional. 
I appreciate that there has been some delay in dealing with this, and that there was some 
inconvenience as a result of the damage caused by the first engineer. However, I can see 
that Aviva have done the right thing in replacing the items damaged, and I think that the 
£515 they have offered is fair and reasonable to recognise the inconvenience caused by 
delays, and the residual issue with the sink. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think that Aviva should pay Mrs K the £515 they have offered for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Mrs Ks complaint and directing Aviva Insurance 
Limited to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman