DRN-2057374
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained regarding the liability decision Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) made after a claim was made by a third party against his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint on 17 July 2020. An extract from 
that decisions follows: 
"Mr S was driving abroad when he was involved in a motor accident. He was parked in a bay 
at the side of the road when another car drove past and hit the front passenger door of his 
car which, he says, was open by about 10-15 centimetres. The parties completed a form to 
confirm the accident circumstances but Mr S didnt sign it because he didnt agree with the 
location of the door as it was drawn on the form by the third party. The police didnt attend.
Mr S said it was the other drivers fault because she was driving too fast and too close to his 
car. He said the damage to his car was to the end of the door and not inside which is what 
would have happened if the door was fully open. 
LV initially denied liability on Mr Ss behalf but later wrote to him to say it would have to 
admit liability. It said this was because the witness, whose details he had provided, hadnt 
seen the accident but only came to the scene after he heard the crash. It also said it was 
admitting liability because the damage to the third party vehicle was to the side which would 
suggest that the door was opened as the other vehicle was driving past. 
Mr S didnt agree and complained. He said the door was open only slightly when the impact 
happened which is why it was pushed round to halfway open. If it was more open it would 
have been damaged from the inside and probably taken off its hinges. Mr S also said that 
the damage to the third party vehicle was consistent with his story and that among other 
things, her front tyre had burst.
LV didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it reviewed the relevant law of the country where 
the accident took place which states that it is forbidden for the occupant of a parked car to 
open a door when this is a danger to them and others. It also said it wasnt possible to prove 
that the door had been open for a significant amount of time prior to the accident and 
therefore that the third party shouldve seen it. In terms of the damage to the third party 
vehicle it didnt think this was consistent with Mr Ss version. It said the damage started at 
the wheel and went along the side of the vehicle and if the door was already open, the 
damage wouldve been expected to be at the front of the third party vehicle. 
Mr S was unhappy and complained to us. He said his version of events was ignored. He 
wanted his £500 excess reimbursed as well as £123 which was the increase in his 
premiums. He also wanted his no claims bonus reinstated and for the accident to be 
recorded as non-fault.One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld for the 
same reasons as LV. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said there was clear 
evidence the other car was speeding and that there was evidence in a form that was filled in 
at the time of the accident that the door was already open. He asked that the ombudsman 
looks at this with an engineer who can explain the damage to the end of the door and also 
the puncture to the third partys front tyre. He reiterated that the door was partially open and 
that this wasnt dangerous or against the highway code as the other driver would have seen 
the door if she hadnt been speeding. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id like to start by apologising to the parties for the time it has taken us to review this 
complaint. I know for Mr S it has been particularly frustrating and I am sorry about that. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not considering 
upholding this complaint.
The policy says that LV is entitled to have total control to conduct, defend and settle any 
claim. This isnt unusual as its in most motor insurance policies Im aware of. So we are 
happy for insurers to rely on this clause as long as we think that they are acting fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. 
My role isnt to determine who was at fault for the accident but to decide whether LV, as 
Mr Ss motor insurer, was acting fairly and reasonably in the way it handled the claim. Mr S 
asked for me to look at the vehicle damage evidence along with an engineer. But as its not 
my role to determine liability Im not going to do that. In any event I wouldnt expect an 
engineer to comment on liability. This is something an insurer or legal advisor would do.
LV was initially disputing liability. But it said after it reviewed the relevant evidence including 
the witness evidence and the relevant law it felt that Mr S would be at fault for the accident. It 
said Mr S had potentially committed a violation of the highway code of the country he was in 
which says that the occupant of a parked car is forbidden from opening a door when that 
manoeuvre poses a danger to them and others.
LV said if it had been possible to prove that the door was open for a significant amount of 
time it may have been able to escape liability by arguing that the third party should have 
seen and avoided it.
Mr S accepts that the door was open but he said it was only by a few centimetres. And he 
said there was no violation as opening the door wasnt a danger to him or to others. 
Based on the evidence available and the relevant section of the highway code of the country 
he was in, I think LV was acting fairly and reasonably when it said Mr S would likely be found 
to be at fault for the accident. This is because, there is no evidence currently available to 
show that the door had been open for a significant amount of time. 
LV said the fact that the damage to the third party vehicle was to the side suggests that the 
door was opened as it was driving past Mr Ss car and therefore that it wasnt open for a 
significant amount of time. Mr S said there was damage to the third party front tyre and this 
supports his version of events. As far as Im aware, Mr Ss version is that the door was only 
slightly open and that the other party was driving too close and too fast, not that the door was open for a long time. The damage to the front tyre doesnt, in my view, show how long 
the door had been open for or that it was open for a significant time. 
I also dont think the witnesses evidence can be relied on- in terms of how the accident 
happened- because the witness didnt see the accident. So I dont think the witness could 
confirm whether the door was open for a significant amount of time before the accident or 
whether, as Mr S has argued, the third party was speeding.
I appreciate that Mr S says that the other party was driving too close to his car and too fast. 
He said that glass from the door was thrown onto the pavement which shows the severity of 
the impact. He also said the third party didnt try to stop and there were no skid marks. But I 
think this would make it even harder to estimate her speed as, my understanding is, skid 
marks are used to determine speed depending on how long it took someone to stop. And, in 
any event, the section of the highway code LV quoted puts the onus on him to check that 
opening the door isnt a danger to him or to others regardless on how close the third party 
may have been.  
I note that LV settled the third party claim on a without prejudice basis. This means it hasnt 
openly admitted liability on Mr Ss behalf and it also means that, if he chooses to, he may still 
pursue the third party for any uninsured losses he has incurred. This would be something he 
will need to do privately though or through a legal expenses policy and it will depend on how 
likely it is that the claim will be successful.  
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this decision but for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think LV dealt with the claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons above, I'm not considering upholding this complaint." 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to change any of the findings I made in my provisional 
decision.
LV responded to say that it had nothing further to add. Mr S also responded but didnt agree 
with my provisional decision. He said he believed the other driver was at fault and that he 
had been let down by us and LV. He also said I had ignored the way the damage was 
caused to his car. 
As I said in my provisional decision, based on the advice LV had been given about liability I 
thought its decision to deal with the third party claim was fair and reasonable particularly as 
it did so on a without prejudice basis. I said this was based on the fact that it wasnt possible 
to show how long Mr Ss door had been open for.
Mr S said I ignored the way the damage was caused to his car. As I said in my provisional 
decision I appreciate that the damage was to the end of the door and not inside the door. But 
as I said previously the relevant question here is how long the door had been open for not 
how much by- and the area of damage I dont think answers this question. As I said previously I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this decision but I hope I 
have explained sufficiently well why I arrived at this decision. Finally, I would again like to 
apologise for the time its taken for us to review this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman