DRN-3775863
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality. Hes also unhappy with the 
interest he paid on the agreement, and that the interest rate is higher on a new agreement.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr F was supplied with a premium used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. He paid an advance payment of £1,500 and the agreement was 
for £15,868 over 60 months at an APR interest rate of 8.9%. At the time of supply the car 
was just over five years old.
Mr F says that he had problems with the car from the outset  there were issues with the 
stop/start function, engine issues, and the DVD player wasnt working - and the car went 
back to the dealership on multiple occasions. Although he was given a courtesy car on each 
occasion, he thought these were an inconvenience as they werent the same make/model as 
the car hed been supplied with. So, in March 2022, he complained to Santander.
Santander arranged for the faults on the car to be fixed. However, Mr F decided he didnt 
want to wait for the repairs to be done, and he arranged to part-exchange the car with the 
dealership instead, financing a new car through Santander at an APR interest rate of 9.8%.
Mr F was unhappy that the new car wasnt of the same quality as the original one (it was a 
normal estate car, whereas Mr F has described the original car as being his dream car), 
that the interest rate on the new agreement was higher than he was originally paying, and 
about the amount of interest he had to pay under the original agreement. So, he complained 
to Santander again.
Santander said Mr F had chosen to enter a new agreement instead of having the original car 
repaired. And, in doing so, he was aware of the interest rate hed be paying. They also said 
that interest formed part of the original agreement, so they thought theyd acted fairly by 
charging this. However, they offered Mr F £150 due to delays in dealing with his complaint.
Mr F wasnt happy with Santanders response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Santander have a responsibility under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) to ensure that goods supplied are of a satisfactory quality. And, if the goods are 
faulty, the CRA allows them an opportunity to repair the goods before the consumer can 
reject them. 
He said that Santander arranged for the repair to take place, but Mr F chose to part-
exchange the car instead. And, in doing so, he denied Santander the opportunity to provide 
the remedy the CRA allows. As such, he didnt think Santander had done anything wrong 
relating to the quality of the car.
With regards to the interest rates, the investigator said that the interest charged on the 
agreement Mr F had with Santander formed part of the terms Mr F had agreed to and isnt 
linked to the quality of the car. So, he didnt think it was fair for Santander to reduce or waive 
this because Mr F had issues with the car.
Finally, the investigator said that the new agreement Mr F took out wasnt linked to the 
original agreement, so the interest rate didnt need to be the same. And the second 
agreement Mr F took out was clear in what interest was being charged, and at what rate. So, 
he didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. And he thought the £150 offered was 
reasonable for the inconvenience Mr F had initially suffered with the car.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that wed not considered that he made nine 
trips to the dealership, each one being a 120-mile round trip. He also said that the trade-in 
price he received from the dealership shouldve been the price he originally paid for the car, 
and the interest rate for the new agreement shouldve been the same as the original one. 
Hes also said that, because he was sold a faulty car in the first place that Santander have 
ripped me off and hes now stuck with a car I was forced to buy and hate. Finally, Mr F 
has said that hes had to pay for his personalised number plate to be removed from the 
original car and placed on retention.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, it implies that its for Mr F to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr F took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this 
right.Although I havent seen any evidence of any faults with the original car, the existence of 
faults doesnt seem to be disputed. Im aware that Mr F says he took the car back to the 
dealership on nine occasions, but I havent seen anything to show me what each of these 
visits were for. Or what, if anything, was done to the car i.e. were any faults identified and 
repaired by the dealership.
The CRA allows one chance at repair and, given the lack of any evidence as to what had 
been done by the dealership previously, Im satisfied that Santander arranging for the faults 
that Mr F had complained about to be repaired was allowable under the CRA. 
If the repair had been successful, I wouldve been considering if Mr F had been fairly 
compensated for the inconvenience hed been caused. And if the repair was unsuccessful, 
Id be considering allowing Mr F to reject the car and for his deposit to be refunded. 
Although, because he was kept mobile with courtesy cars, I wouldnt have considered 
refunding Mr F with any of the payments he made. 
But, in neither circumstance, would I have considered asking Santander to refund Mr F the 
interest proportion of the payments hed made because, as explained by the investigator, the 
interest charged isnt linked to the quality of the car. And, because Santander have charged 
Mr F interest in line with the agreement he originally signed, I dont see any reason to ask 
them to refund any part of this.
However, by choosing to part exchange the car, Mr F denied Santander the opportunity they 
were afforded by the CRA to repair the car. And, while I appreciate that Mr F had his own 
reasons for not wanting to wait for the repairs to be done, this doesnt mean that I should 
now consider either of the remedies referred to above that relate to when repairs have been 
carried out. Mr Fs decision to part-exchange the car instead means these remedies no 
longer apply.
Mr F believes that the dealership shouldve given him a better price for the car when he part-
exchanged it  he thinks they shouldve given him what he originally paid for it. And hes 
unhappy that Santander charged a different interest rate on the new agreement, even 
though the amount borrowed, the term, the deposit put down, and the age and mileage of 
the car being supplied were all different.
While I appreciate that Mr F now regrets making the decision he did, especially as he 
actively dislikes the car he chose as a replacement, Ive not seen anything to show me he 
was in any way forced to part-exchange the original car. And he couldve opted to have the 
original car repaired if he was unhappy with any part of the deal he was offered, for example 
the amount he was being offered for the part-exchange, the interest rate he was paying, the 
car he chose to finance, or that there would be a cost involved with changing over the 
number plate. Given this, I cant see that Santander are responsible for the decision Mr F 
made, and I wont be asking them to do anything to try to put things right.
Saying that, I appreciate that Mr F was inconvenienced by what had happened, and the 
need to travel to the dealership on multiple occasions. However, without something to show 
me that all of these trips were as a result of a fault that was present when the car was 
supplied, as opposed to an issue that, given the age and mileage of the car when supplied,  
related to normal age and usage wear and tear, then I cant fairly ask Santander to 
reimburse Mr F for the fuel costs he incurred.
As such, Im satisfied that the £150 Santander have offered is reasonable in the 
circumstances. And, if this hasnt already been paid, then its for Mr F to decide whether to 
accept this or not.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman