The complaint
Ms S complains Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her she couldn't make withdrawals 
when she opened a junior savings account for her daughter.
What happened
In 2013 Ms S visited a Nationwide branch and opened a Junior Individual Savings Account 
(JISA) in her daughters name. Ms S says she wanted to save towards buying a house and 
chose this account after researching similar products from a range of banks. She says about 
£6000 was saved into this account over the years.
In 2019 Ms S wanted to withdraw this money as she says she was buying a house and 
needed some of it to buy new things for her daughter. But Nationwide told her the money 
couldnt be accessed until her daughter was 18 years old. 
Ms S says Nationwide didnt tell her this when she opened the JISA in 2013. And she 
thought it should have assessed whether she could afford to pay monthly into the JISA, 
because shed then struggled to save money into it. So she complained to Nationwide.
In its final response, Nationwide said the money in the JISA belonged to Ms Ss daughter 
and couldnt be withdrawn until she reached 18. It said this was set out in the account terms 
and conditions it gave Ms S when she opened the account in branch. And these rules were 
set out by HMRC, not Nationwide. Nationwide said it was for Ms S to review the account 
terms and conditions before signing the application form. It said it never provided advice on 
savings accounts. And that it hadnt needed to do an affordability assessment because it 
wasnt lending her money.
Ms S was still unhappy so she brought this complaint to our service. She also told us 
Nationwide had given her poor customer service when she asked it for another copy of its 
final response. 
After looking into things, our investigator said the account terms and conditions made it clear 
there were restrictions on making withdrawals, and that Ms S was responsible for making 
sure she understood those terms and conditions. He also said Nationwide didnt need to 
assess affordability as it was up to Ms S how much she saved into the account. He told Ms S 
Nationwide would look into the recent customer service concerns she'd raised with our 
service, so he wouldn't consider them here.
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So it's been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1055510Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
The account in question is a JISA, which is a type of childs saving account. While a parent 
or guardian will generally manage this type of account on the childs behalf, the account 
holder is in fact the child and so the money in the account belongs to them. It is for this 
reason that HMRC rules don't allow access until the child turns 18.
Ms S says she approached Nationwide to open the JISA after doing her own research and 
comparing other products. So the JISA was her choice rather than something Nationwide 
gave her financial advice about. For that reason, Im satisfied it was Ms Ss responsibility to 
make sure she understood and agreed with the account terms and conditions before 
opening it. Ive not seen anything to suggest Nationwide provided Ms S with advice or told 
her this account was suitable for her.
Ms Ss key point is that she wasnt made aware of the fact that she couldnt access her 
funds until her daughter is 18. Shes likened it to the mis-selling of PPI and believes this was 
mis-sold. However, as Ive explained, I dont think she was advised to take this account, so 
all Nationwide had to do was provide clear information about how the account worked. Ive 
seen that the Key Product Information part of the JISA terms and conditions says:
The JISA is in the ownership of the child.
Any money paid into the JISA is a gift to the child and cant be repaid.
Money cant be withdrawn from the account until the childs 18th birthday.
If the account is unsuitable, it can be closed and the money returned provided
Nationwide are notified within 14 days of the JISA being opened.
Nationwide says the terms and conditions would have been provided to Ms S when she 
opened the account in branch, as a standard part of the application process, and were also 
available on its website. 
Ms S has told our service she wouldnt have read the terms and conditions in branch 
because it was difficult for her to do so. But as Ive said, it was up to Ms S to be aware of the 
account terms and conditions. And if she couldnt read them in branch, then the 14 day 
cooling off period meant she could read them soon after and ask for the JISA to be closed if 
it didnt suit her. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that was something Ms S asked for.
Nationwide wasnt lending anything to Ms S, so there was no need for it to do any kind of 
affordability assessment when she opened the account. I appreciate it may have been 
difficult for Ms S to save into the account over the years. But it was her choice to continue 
paying into the account. Ive seen nothing to suggest she had to make any kind of minimum 
payment into the account. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that when Ms S opened the JISA, Nationwide 
took reasonable steps to inform her she wouldnt be able to make withdrawals until her 
daughter turns 18. I understand Ms S wants to access the funds now and is finding it difficult 
financially. I am sorry to hear this, but for the reasons Ive explained, Im not asking 
Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2019.Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman