DRN-3663989
The complaint
Mr H complains about the delays that he says Investacc Pension Administration Limited 
(Investacc) caused to the transfer of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says hes 
suffered a financial loss because of the delays.  
What happened
Mr H held a SIPP which he wanted to transfer. So on 11 January 2022 he sent a transfer 
request to Investacc, who said it then sent the request to the firm which managed the SIPP 
investments the day after it received it.
Investacc chased its initial request on 28 January and then again on 11 February 2022. 
During this time Mr H contacted Investacc on 7 February 2022 for a progress update. The 
other firm said it acted on the first chaser email from Investacc  having not received the 
initial request - and the funds were disinvested and ready to transfer on 17 February 2022. 
The funds were eventually sent on 28 February 2022.
But Mr H complained to both firms about the time it took to complete the transfer as the 
value of his SIPP fell significantly during that time. The SIPP investment manager said it 
hadnt received the transfer request or been aware of it until Investaccs chaser email of 
28 January 2022  although it conceded that it could have completed the transfer more 
quickly after that time. 
But Investacc said that it had sent the request to the firm as instructed on 13 January 2022. 
It confirmed that its records showed the request was sent to the correct address for the other 
firm on that date and that it always used the postal service to send documents as it hadnt 
encountered any issues with lost mail previously. It said for the same reason it didnt 
usually sent documents by recorded delivery unless they were classed as valuable.
It didnt think sending the information by email would have made a difference to its usual 
timescales for completing such actions. But in any case, it didnt usually send instructions by 
email. 
But Mr H remained unhappy with this outcome. He thought Investacc ought to have ensured 
the transfer request was received by using email or recorded delivery for example. So he 
brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
 
He said Investacc had sent the transfer request to the investment manager the day after it 
received Mr Hs request. 
He further believed it wasnt unreasonable for Investacc to send the documents by post and 
that we wouldnt usually tell a business how to operate or interfere with its everyday 
commercial decisions. He also thought Investacc had chased up its initial letter on two 
separate occasions  in line with its usual practice of chasing up requests every 10 working 
days. 
 But Mr H didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He thought wed investigate his two complaints side by side.
He was disappointed with our assessment as, having spent many thousands of 
pounds on financial advice to complete his transfer, hed found that two of the parties 
involved in the process were unable to ensure he didnt suffer unnecessary financial 
losses.
His pension plan was invested in global stock markets and subject to fluctuations in 
value every day, so he entrusted the companies involved to carry out the transfer 
without delay. He thought the process  having been initiated electronically  would 
have been conducted electronically end to end.  
He thought Investacc should have sent a cover email and copy of the transfer 
request, along with posting the original documentation on 13 January 2022. In fact, 
Investaccs chase of 28 January 2022 was an email attaching the original transfer 
request. 
He didnt think it was acceptable for anybody to lose money through non robust 
practices and thought action should be taken to ensure no one else suffered losses 
in the future.
The investigator said he thought Investacc had dealt with the original transfer request as it 
said it would and had chased it up within a reasonable time period. He said it wasnt 
reasonable to conclude that Investacc hadnt fulfilled its obligations.
Mr H remained unhappy and said he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman  so 
its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr H, but Im not persuaded that Investacc has done anything wrong 
here  so Ill explain my reasons.
 
I should first explain that Mr H complained about both firms involved with the transfer out of 
his SIPP here. The other complaint against the firm which managed the SIPP investments 
has been investigated and an agreement was reached for how the firm should compensate 
Mr H for the loss it was perceived to have caused. So what Im considering here are 
Investaccs actions and whether they caused any overall delay to the SIPP transfer.
Ive seen a screenshot of the electronic transfer request that was set up by Mr Hs new 
provider on 11 January 2022. Mr Hs SIPP, valued at around £698,697 had to be disinvested 
before it could be transferred. 
Investaccs notes on the system from 12 February 2022 said that once the members 
investment accounts have been closed and the monies returned into the members SIPP 
account, well process the transfer. 
The transfer was scheduled to complete by 23 January 2022. 
So the disinvestment part of the transfer process began on 13 January 2022 when Investacc 
acknowledged that it had received Mr Hs transfer request and sent it to the SIPP investment 
manager so that the funds could be sold and disinvested ready to transfer to the new 
provider. However, when Investacc emailed the manager with a request for an update 10 
working days later it didnt receive a response  although unbeknown to Investacc and Mr H - this request, which also contained a copy of the original documentation, was picked up by 
the other firm and the disinvestment process began. 
So I dont think I can consider any delays to be attributable to Investacc after 
28 January 2022 because all parties accept that the other firm had begun the disinvestment 
process at that time and Investacc wasnt involved in that side of the process. So Ive looked 
at the period from when Investaccs notes on the electronic transfer system and its own 
records agree that it received Mr Hs request and ought to have send it off to the other firm.
 
Ive seen a copy of the letter that Investacc sent the firm dated 13 January 2022. It was sent 
to the correct address for the investment manager and set out an instruction to close the 
above accounts with immediate effect and send the proceeds to the following bank details.  
So I think Investacc sent a clear request to close Mr Hs plan and provided the bank details 
of where the funds should be sent. I know Mr H believes the request should have been sent 
by recorded delivery or emailed across with the instruction attached or even just as a 
covering email signposting that the request was being posted. 
But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Investacc had said it would send the request 
in either of those formats and I dont think it was unreasonable to send an original instruction 
through the postal system. Investacc has explained that it hasnt experienced any issues 
previously with documents being lost in the post and it says it only uses recorded delivery 
when it needs to send out valuable documents. It says it franks its own mail and has it 
collected personally by a local postal service  which has proved very reliable to date. 
It also says the use of email isnt ideal when original signatures are required, and an email 
wouldnt have speeded up the process in any case. This doesnt appear to be an 
unreasonable position in my view, but even if I am wrong Investacc has made an everyday 
commercial decision to use the postal service when sending documents and we wouldnt 
normally interfere with a businesss everyday commercial practice. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Investacc didnt act in line with its normal practice here and I havent seen any 
evidence to support the claim that it should have used alternative methods of delivery or 
incorporated them alongside the use of the postal service. 
So I havent found any evidence to support the claim that Investacc either should have done 
more here or did anything wrong. 
Ive also been provided with copies of emails that Investacc sent the investment manager for 
update requests around 10 working days later. Investacc says it has a process of requesting 
an update every 10 working days because most other firms have that same time frame for 
picking up and dealing with work requests. So it says there would be little point in chasing up 
a firm any quicker than 10 working days.
 
On 28 January 2022 Investacc contacted the investment manager and said I hope you are 
all keeping well. Weve sent the attached instruction to the Leeds office on 13 January 2022. 
Could you please give me an update on the progress? 
When no response was received Investacc chased again on 11 February 2022, asking, 
please see below my email from 28 January 2022 and the attached instruction from 
13 January 2022. According to my records I havent received a reply as of yet. Could you 
please give me an update on the progress?
It would seem that although it didnt respond, the investment manager began the process of 
disinvestment when it received the email of 28 January 2022. But as Ive already said I dont think I can hold Investacc responsible for any delay after that point  as it wasnt involved in 
the process. 
However, I think Investacc acted reasonably in following up its original transfer request in 
both a timely and effective way. It wasnt aware that its original request hadnt been received 
so I think it was reasonable for it to allow a period for the Investment manager to action the 
request and start working on it before it began its requests for updates. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustrations here as his plan has fallen significantly in value during 
what he perceives has been a delayed transfer period. And he makes the point that having 
paid a sizeable fee for the transfer to be completed he expected the parties involved to 
ensure he didnt suffer such an unnecessary loss. But I dont think Investacc has done 
anything wrong here and I think it did what it said it would do regarding Mr Hs transfer 
request and followed up the lack of activity from the investment manager in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
While Mr H believes that Investacc should have used additional measures to ensure his 
request was received by the investment manager that doesnt mean that it has acted unfairly 
by using the means that it did. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Investacc offered different 
ways of delivering Mr Hs transfer instruction to the relevant party here and I think it was 
entitled to use the method it had already established for such a situation. I cant hold 
Investacc responsible for the request not being received by the investment manager and Im 
satisfied that it was sent to the appropriate place. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman