DRN-1091822
The complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays Bank UK Plc's use of a rainbow logo on its banking app. 
What happened
Last year Mr C complained to Barclays after it changed its banking app to include a rainbow 
logo. Mr C says the use of the logo is discriminatory due to his faith and breaches the 
Equalities Act 2010. 
Mr C discussed his complaint with Barclays on 8 July 2019 but it refused to change the logo 
on its banking app and sent him referral rights for our service. Mr C asked us to look at his 
complaint and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and he asked to appeal. The investigator also confirmed that the banking app had 
reverted to the original design. As Mr C asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigators said, whilst we take the relevant laws and regulations into account 
when looking at a complaint, well make a decision on a fair and reasonable basis. So whilst 
I understand Mr Cs concerns that Barclays may have broken the rules surrounding 
discrimination, Ive thought about the impact of the new logo on him. I've also considered 
whether Barclays acted reasonably when it chose to change its logo.
Having done so, Im not persuaded Barclays has treated Mr C unfairly. Barclays says it uses 
the logo to show its support for the LGBT community and thats a decision its entitled to 
take. I appreciate Mr C has his own beliefs, but I haven't been persuaded Barclays sought to 
discriminate against him by changing its logo. I havent seen anything to show Barclays 
wanted to offend Mr C. 
The investigators confirmed that the logo used on Barclays banking app has now reverted to 
the original. But Mr C should be aware that Barclays can use its own discretion when 
deciding how to operate its banking app and its free to make similar changes in the future. 
As I'm satisfied Barclays dealt with Mr C's complaint fairly I'm not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Marco ManenteOmbudsman