DRN-3047471
The complaint
Dr K is unhappy with the way Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) handled cover 
for treatment that had been authorised under his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Dr K had a private medical insurance policy in place from 1 August 2016. The policy was 
underwritten by WPA. On 28 February 2020 WPA agreed to authorise 8 physiotherapy 
sessions for Dr K for treatment to his lower back.  However, when the Covid-19 global 
pandemic hit, the treatment provider closed. 
From 21 March 2020 there was limited access to most private healthcare facilities in the UK, 
due to these resources being allocated to help support the NHS during the pandemic. 
On 30 March 2020 WPA offered their customers a remote GP service. Then, in April 2020, 
WPA offered Dr K the following five options to make changes to his policy in response to the 
pandemic and the access to available treatment:
1. continuing with his current premier cover with a 5% discount
2. changing premier cover mid-term for reduced benefits and premium
3. taking a break for up to 12 months with underwriting protection
4. transferring to a new surgery only policy with underwriting protection for up to 12 months 
5. transferring to the lowest cost new policy with reduced benefits and underwriting 
protection
Dr K opted for the lowest cost option. It was £2.50 per month and only provided NHS 
Hospital cash benefit, remote GP services and a Health and Wellbeing helpline benefit - so 
Dr Ks physiotherapy sessions were no longer covered. His policy was transferred effective 
from 1 May 2020. It was renewable every three months which gave Dr K the option to return 
to his previous premier policy, with his underwriting preserved.
 
WPA provided a refund for the difference of the cost of the new policy and Dr Ks previous 
policy from May 2020 until the end of the policy year in August 2020 - which was three 
months. WPA also provided a £90 voluntary rebate to recognise the limited access to private 
healthcare facilities before May 2020. 
Dr K is unhappy about the rebate. He says his specific premiums shouldve been returned 
for the period 23 March 2020 to 30 April 2020, when he was unable to receive his 
physiotherapy treatment. If not for lockdown, Dr K believes he would have had five physio 
treatments before the new policy would came into effect on 1 May 2020. WPA have now 
been able to avoid these costs so he thinks they have benefited from the pandemic. He 
recommended WPA pay 75% of the £250 cost of five physio sessions with the £90 rebate 
deducted. Or that his premiums are returned from 23 March 2020 to 30 April 2020.
WPA disagreed, so Dr K referred his complaint to this service to consider. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was outside of 
WPAs control that the physiotherapy treatment was put on hold and overall she thought 
WPA had acted fairly in the circumstances of the pandemic. 
Dr K didnt agree. He said the options offered to him before and after May 2020 didnt take 
account of his personal circumstances. So the case has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When making my decision Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Dr Ks contract 
with WPA, as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance 
which say WPA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Its unfortunate that Dr K wasnt able to have the physiotherapy when he needed it, and that 
the treatment was put on hold. But I dont think this is something I can hold WPA responsible 
for and, in the circumstances, I think they have acted fairly. I say this for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate Dr K feels strongly that WPA shouldnt retain the premiums he paid 
between 23 March and 30 April because he was unable to access the physiotherapy 
treatment theyd already authorised. However, Dr K had an annual policy and 
premiums must be paid for WPA to provide cover during that whole year. Insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an event happening over the duration of the 
contract. And an insurer is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk 
during that time, even if no successful claim is made.  
WPA provided cover under Dr Ks policy for the duration of his policy year, and 
authorised the treatment which was requested, so Im satisfied its entitled to retain 
the premiums. 
Dr K was unable to undergo his physio appointments due to the private medical 
facility closing, in response to the pandemic. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to 
refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to 
circumstances outside of its control. WPA doesnt own or operate the vast majority of 
the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer approved 
private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of WPAs 
control.
Theres no term in Dr Ks policy which entitles him to a premium refund if hes unable 
make use of all of the services he expected to be available. So, I dont think its fair to 
ask WPA to refund the premiums Dr K has requested. 
Ive also considered if WPA have retained premiums whilst offering no policy benefits 
to Dr K during the period in question. But this isnt the case because Dr K was able to 
see a virtual GP from 30 March if he required, so he did have access to private 
medical support during this period. 
Dr K says the remote GP service has no value for someone of his age and the GP 
would not have had access to his NHS medical records and medical history. But 
private facilities dont usually have access to NHS medical records, so I dont think 
this is relevant. Having access to a remote GP meant Dr K wouldve been able to 
speak to a doctor if hed needed to. And, if he had needed other medical treatment or services during this time, WPA couldve pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at 
a later date.  So, I dont think Dr K was unable to benefit from the policy during this 
time. 
Dr K feels strongly that WPA have avoided paying the cost of his physiotherapy 
sessions, so he thinks the pandemic has advantaged them and disadvantaged him - 
but I disagree. Dr K couldve switched back to his previous policy at any three-month 
interval and WPA wouldve covered the cost of his physiotherapy sessions. WPA 
confirmed their pre-authorisation would still stand for 12 months so, I dont think WPA 
acted unfairly. 
I note Dr Ks comments that he disagrees with our investigator that his treatment 
wasnt urgent. However, we can only assess the information provided to us and I 
havent seen anything to suggest Dr Ks treatment was urgent or his condition 
worsened because he didnt receive the physiotherapy session during the period in 
question.
In summary, I think WPA acted fairly in light of the Covid -19 pandemic. Dr K was unable to 
undergo his physio appointments due to the private medical facility closing. This was not the 
fault of WPA; it was the result of the extraordinary  and unexpected - impact of the Covid-
19 pandemic. The policy doesnt make any exceptions for such a situation and although I 
know this will be disappointing to Dr K, I dont think theres anything more WPA should 
reasonably have done for him in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman