DRN-4094224
The complaint
Mr N complained about Santander UK Plc. He said Santander did not give him 
alternative options when it changed the risk rating of a fund that he was invested in.    
Mr N said the higher risk rating was not one that he was willing to take, and this resulted 
in him receiving investment losses.  
What happened
Mr N took out a Stocks & Shares ISA along with a non-ISA investment account in 2010. 
Mr N invested through these in what was rated by Santander at the time as a low-risk 
bond fund. Mr N said all was well with his investment with Santander until October 2021. 
He said Santander contacted him and said it was changing the risk profile of the fund he 
was invested in from lower risk to lower medium risk. Mr N said he wrote to Santander 
to say he wanted to stay with a lower risk investment but did not receive a reply. He said 
the performance of his investment went down and he had incurred investment losses. 
Mr N complained to Santander about this.
Santander responded and said the performance of Mr Ns investment was not due to a 
mistake by it. It said it changed the risk category of the investment in October 2021 from 
lower risk to lower medium risk to reflect the market environment at that time. It listed the 
changes it made. These included a name change, an amended fund objective and reduced 
annual management fee. It said it said in the letter it sent in October 2021, that Mr N could 
call it to discuss his options if he wanted to.
Mr N wasnt happy with Santanders response so referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
the letter sent by Santander in October 2021 explained the change of risk and why 
Santander felt it was needed. She said it gave Mr N an option to call it to discuss further his 
options. She concluded she could not reasonably say he wasnt given an option to do so. 
The investigator went on to say she had looked through the statements relating to the 
investment and although could see Mr Ns investment had fallen in value, that this was not in 
direct correlation with the change in risk rating. She concluded that Santander had not done 
anything wrong here. Mr N didnt agree. He said he did not accept the conclusion drawn by 
the investigator. He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Ns complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
I have looked through Mr Ns quarterly statements for the period that he says he 
has incurred investment losses, and I can see that he has. And the losses he has 
referred to have occurred after he received a letter from Santander advising of a 
change in risk rating for the investment he held.
Santanders letter in October 2021 was titled Changes to your Santander 
investment income portfolio. I have read this letter and can see that it has 
advised that it had changed the risk rating of the investment from lower risk to 
lower medium risk. It has explained in the letter that it had done this to reflect the 
slightly increased level of risk on this fund and has since also told our service 
that the change in risk rating was in response to the market environment and not 
because of any changes Santander itself had made to the fund itself. 
Santander listed three aspects of the fund that it changed at this time, these 
being a change of name, clarification on its objective to be an income fund and 
finally a reduction in the annual fee. 
Santander has then under a heading here to help stated that the investment 
holder can contact it if they have any queries or to discuss options and it then 
gave a telephone number.
Mr N says that Santander did not give him alternative options when it changed 
the risk rating. He said to our service in September 2022 that he wrote to 
Santander after he received the letter in October 2021, but it didnt respond. 
Santander has not confirmed that it received a letter from Mr N at around this 
time.
Mr N has produced a draft of a letter that he says was like the one he sent. But I 
can see that this letter was dated 4 July 2022, the letter that Santander did 
receive from Mr N several months later. It submitted this letter to our service and 
has stamped it to say it received it. It also replied to Mr Ns letter sent on 4 July 
2022 as part of its response to his complaint.   
I acknowledge what Mr N is saying about writing to Santander after the October 
2021 letter advising of the change in risk rating. But I havent seen enough that I 
can conclude on balance that Santander received a letter from him at this stage. 
And the draft letter he has sent in recently was in relation to a letter Santander 
said it did receive several months later.
I can see Santander did state in its letter from October 2021 that Mr N could 
contact it on the telephone and discuss options. But Ive not seen enough to 
suggest Mr N did do this. Rather, I think on balance Mr N contacted Santander a 
few months later when he had seen he had made investment losses and it was at 
this point that he raised an issue with the risk rating. 
Mr N has said he didnt give permission for Santander to open an account with a 
higher risk rated investment. But I dont think it did this. I can see that it changed 
the risk rating on an investment that Mr N held and then I can see that it 
explained why it did this and then gave an option for Mr N to contact it to discuss 
options if he wanted to. Something that on the balance of probabilities didnt 
happen until a few months later when Mr N had made investment losses.
I can see that Santander made changes to the investment fund that it manages. 
Something that it is entitled to do. And that it informed Mr N about these changes 
and gave him an option to contact them. I havent seen enough to conclude Mr N did do this. And when he made a complaint months later, Santander did then 
respond. 
As I have already concluded, I can see that Mr N has made investment losses, 
but I dont think this is directly because of any failings made by Santander, so it 
doesnt need to put things right on this occasion. It follows that I dont uphold    
Mr Ns complaint.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr N, but I hope he will at least feel 
that his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman