DRN-3853026
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Ikano Bank AB (publ) dealt with her loan account.
What happened
Mrs H says she was given misleading and incorrect information from Ikano about her loan. 
She says as a result her credit file was affected, and two late payments were incorrectly 
recorded on it which reduced her credit score. Mrs H says she made a number of telephone 
calls to Ikano about the problems and has been caused significant distress and 
inconvenience as a result of what took place. She would like an apology and between 
£1,000 and £1,500 compensation and says the late payment markers were still on her credit 
file some seven months after the mistake despite Ikano agreeing to remove them.
Ikano accepts it made a number of mistakes and has apologised. It accepts giving Mrs H 
incorrect information and unnecessarily writing to her. Ikano says it will remove the late 
payment markers and has offered £50 compensation.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
the last payment Mrs H made of £22.46 should be refunded and recommended Ikano pay 
£200 compensation for the impact its mistakes had on Mrs H. He also recommended all 
adverse information be removed from Mrs Hs credit file.
Ikano has agreed with the investigators view and accepts it didnt remove the late payment 
markers from Mrs Hs credit file when it said it would.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says the reduced credit score has affected her ability to 
re-finance.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said as follows.
I came to the provisional view that Ikano should pay a total of £350 compensation, which 
includes the last payment of just over £22 it agreed to refund, for the reasons I would 
explain.
 I said there is no need for me to repeat in detail what took place here as there was no real 
issue that Ikano made a number of mistakes and recorded incorrect information on Mrs Hs 
credit file.
I had no doubt Mrs H was caused distress and inconvenience and could see she made a 
number of telephone calls to Ikano about the issues. I was satisfied that the main impact of 
those mistakes was on Mrs Hs credit file. I was satisfied that having looked at extracts from 
Mrs Hs credit file that it clear her credit score was significantly reduced due to the incorrect 
recording of the late payments. I had no reasons to doubt that the credit score reduction 
would have had an impact on Mrs Hs ability to take out new credit or refinance existing 
credit.
I was satisfied that Ikano fairly said in early 2022 it would remove the late payment markers 
from Mrs Hs credit file. But I was also satisfied that it didnt do so, and the adverse 
information remained on Mrs Hs credit file for at least between four to six months longer. I 
had no doubt Mrs H was caused further frustration by that delay and was impacted by it.
 I said the main issue for me to consider was the level of compensation. And I was satisfied 
that this was a complaint that took a significant time period to sort out and any adverse 
information recorded incorrectly on a credit file for many months has a significant impact. For 
those reasons I considered that the mistakes here would have caused considerable distress 
to Mrs H and for an extended time period of many months. I was satisfied that Ikano should 
pay a total of £350 compensation which I thought was fair and reasonable and included the 
payment of just over £22 it has already agreed to refund. I said that award is in line with the 
type and amount of awards we would make for this type of complaint and impact. I said 
Ikano should also, if it has not done so, remove the late payment markers from Mrs Hs 
credit file.
Ikano has agreed to pay a total of £350 compensation and says the late payments were 
removed from Mrs Hs credit file in May 2022.
Mrs H hasnt replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Ikano should pay the £350 it has agreed to do. There is no need for me to order that any 
adverse information be removed from Mrs Hs credit file as it has now been removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to pay Mrs H 
a total of £350 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman