DRN-2900154
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr H took out in 2004. It was added to his 
account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator did not find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive 
reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below:
 Mr H says he didnt know the PPI had been added to his account. But Ive seen a 
copy of the credit card application form Mr H signed, and this was completed to 
show that he wanted the PPI. There was another box on the form that Mr H couldve 
completed if he hadnt wanted the cover. So, without anything else to support what 
Mr H has told me, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclaycard didnt make him 
aware that the PPI was optional. 
 Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclaycard 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about the length of time hed been with his employer. The 
evidence hes provided suggests hed been with his employer for a shorter period of time 
than that shown on his credit card application form. But irrespective of how long hed been 
employed, Im not persuaded this wouldve affected his ability to claim on the policy. So it 
doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman