DRN-2495832
The complaint
Ms B complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) carried out defective work on the drains 
at her property in 2016, under a home insurance policy. 
All references to Covea include its representatives on the claims.
What happened
In May 2016, Ms B made a claim after the drain at her property kept blocking. Covea 
eventually accepted this claim and carried out repairs. Coveas policy ended in 2017.
In January 2020, Ms B contacted Covea to say that her toilet had started to back-up (at the 
end of December 2019) when flushed. She felt the problems were down to the repairs 
carried out by Covea in 2016 and thought Covea should pay for the work needed to correct 
and repair this blockage, along with any associated damage. Covea asked Ms B to obtain a 
cause of damage report.
Ms B had a drainage contractor review the damage and they conducted a CCTV report. The 
report said there were extensive structural defects to the drainage system. Covea reviewed 
this but didnt think it addressed the cause of damage. Covea arranged for its contractors to 
attend but it couldnt confirm the cause of damage as the blockage was so extensive. 
Covea told Ms B it would not cover the cost of further investigation and it was for her to show 
the damage was down to the works carried out in 2016. Covea offered Ms B £75 
compensation because it felt it could have advised her of its position sooner.
Ms B wasnt happy so referred the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show the current blockage was caused by the work Covea carried out in 
2016. He also felt that Coveas offer of £75 to compensate for the delayed advice was fair.
Ms B didnt agree with our investigator and so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wed expect a repair to be lasting and effective and, on the evidence available, it appears 
the drains worked without impediment from 2016 to December 2019. Im mindful that more 
than three years passed without apparent issue after Covea completed its work.
I think an indication of defective work would have been if the same problem occurred a short 
period after the repairs. But given three years had passed I think its unlikely the issues in 
December 2019 were related to the repairs in 2016. Ms Bs expert report comments on 
structural defects and a collapsed section, but not that repairs were of a poor standard, or 
that they were the cause of the later blockage. Ms B says her contractor declined to 
comment on the previous repairs and so Im not persuaded Ms B has demonstrated Covea 
is responsible. 
I think Covea took reasonable steps to determine if its repairs were defective. But the 
blockage was too extensive and Covea said Ms B would need to clear this and provide 
evidence of the cause of damage before it would review further. Im satisfied that was 
treating her fairly in the circumstances given the lengthy period from repairs in 2016. 
Having thought about this carefully, I wont be directing Covea to take any further action. 
Covea has said its willing to review any further cause of damage evidence Ms B is able to 
provide and I think this is fair.
Covea offered Ms B £75 compensation in recognition that it could have advised her of its 
position sooner and I think thats reasonable. I dont agree that Coveas compensation was 
acceptance the repairs were faulty, rather a fair offer to recognise any trouble or upset it had 
caused in not dealing with the matter quicker.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman