DRN-3271730
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service he received from Inter Partner Assistance SA when 
he called for assistance under the Home Emergency cover part of a home insurance policy 
following a power cut.
What happened
Mr A called Inter Partner at 4.57am on a Sunday in July 2021 to report an electrical failure at 
his home. Inter Partner contacted an engineer to attend Mr As home. But just before 8am 
Mr A called Inter Partner back to say he hadnt heard anything. Inter Partner contacted the 
engineer - and again around an hour later when Mr A called to say he still hadnt heard 
anything. 
Just after 11am Mr A complained to Inter Partner. As it couldnt make contact with the 
engineer, Inter Partner told Mr A he could make his own arrangements and it would 
reimburse him for the costs. 
Mr A arranged for an engineer to attend his property at around midday. He raised a 
complaint with Inter Partner. He said he was woken to hear the house alarm going off at 
around 3.30 am and had no electricity since then. He said the food from his fridge and 
freezer(s) started to smell at around 11am. He had £700 worth of food which had to be 
removed. Mr A wanted Inter Partner to cover the costs of the loss of food and compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Inter Partner accepted that the service it had provided to Mr A was below its expectations 
and that it had caused some distress and inconvenience. But it said its Service Level 
Agreement (SLA) for having an engineer attend for an emergency out of hours was to have 
made contact by 10am and arrive within six hours. Inter Partner said that as Mr As engineer 
attended within its own SLAs it wouldnt cover Mr As claim for lost food affected by the 
electricity failure. 
It apologised for failing to properly explain this when Mr A had contacted it  and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its own engineer not being in touch, it paid Mr A £100 
compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr A didnt agree. He says the distress caused to his family in the early morning was 
significant. He says the SLA Inter Partner relies on might seem reasonable in relation to a 
power cut but not where there is a fridge and freezer full of food.
So Mr A would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General information on fridge and freezer food in the event of an electricity failure is that 
fridge food can be safe for up to four hours, and a full sized freezer for up to 48 hours. Ive 
looked at Mr As policy with Inter Partner and it doesnt give a timescale as to when it will 
provide an engineer in the event of a power cut. But as the issue is an emergency, and 
bearing in mind the above information, Ive considered whether Inter Partners response to 
Mr As complaint was reasonable. 
Mr A says an engineer was able to attend by midday  and he reported the house alarm 
going off at around 3.30am. Inter Partner says that its SLA provides for an engineer to have 
attended by 4pm that day following Mr As contact with it just before 5am.
Due to the failure of the network engineer to make contact with Mr A, I think Inter Partner 
caused Mr A unnecessary distress and inconvenience as he had to call it back a number of 
times that morning. And I think it could have better managed his expectations by properly 
explaining the timescales involved when he called. For this Inter Partner paid Mr A £100 
compensation. 
I understand Mr A wants Inter Partner to cover the costs of all of the food in his fridge and 
freezer(s). But I dont think it is responsible for this. I can appreciate that it wasnt convenient 
to have an electricity failure in the early hours of a Sunday morning and this caused some 
distress to Mr A and his family. But I think the compensation Inter Partner paid Mr A is fair 
and reasonable for the inconvenience it caused by its poor service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman