DRN-3302803
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) told him that if he damages 
his phone or gadgets, he could get them repaired by the manufacturer and recover the costs 
of the repair from the Tech Pack insurer.
When Mr W went to claim, he discovered that he could not arrange for his phone to be 
repaired himself, instead he had to send his phone to the insurer who would arrange the 
repair and potentially use unbranded parts. 
Mr W says the Tech Pack, that he took out on 23 March 2019, was mis-sold because he was 
given wrong information.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed with this and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im not able 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all 
of the evidence that is available.
Barclays has told us that the Tech Pack was sold in a Barclays branch. And Mr W says that 
he was given incorrect information about how claims would be settled, when he called 
Barclays. As such, going by what both Barclays and Mr W have told us, I dont think it was 
the case that Barclays gave Mr W incorrect information when the Pack was sold to him. 
Mr W says that a provider has the duty to ensure that the insurance being sold is suitable for 
the customers needs and circumstances. However that is only the case where the insurance 
is sold on an advised basis. 
Looking through the documentation, it says that the Pack was sold on a non-advised basis. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Barclays did recommend the Pack to Mr W. That 
means that Barclays was not obliged to check that the Pack was a good fit for Mr Ws 
specific circumstances. But it was required to provide Mr W with important information about 
the Pack, so he could decide this for himself. 
Barclays says that it provided Mr W with a copy of a demands and needs statement and a 
copy of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), and also sent a welcome pack 
to Mr W after the sale too  and I cant see that Mr W has disputed this.
Looking at the welcome letter that included a copy of the IPID, I can see that it says:
How we settle a claim 
We will either repair or replace your damaged mobile device 
Claims for loss and theft will be settled with a replacement
Replacements may come from refurbished or remanufactured stock
So the IPID that Barclays provided to Mr W made it clear that the insurer is responsible for 
repairing or replacing damaged devices and it warned that replacements could include 
refurbished and remanufactured stock. 
Furthermore the terms and conditions that were in force at the time of the sale said:
For Accidental Damage and Breakdown claims:

Repairs may be made using readily available parts, or we may provide refurbished products 
which may contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which may 
include unbranded parts.
Therefore, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Barclays provided Mr W with any incorrect 
or mis-leading information about how claims may be settled, when the Pack was sold to him. 
As such, Im unable to conclude that the Pack was mis-sold.
In addition to considering if the Tech Pack was mis-sold, I have also considered the 
available evidence to establish whether I think it was likely that Barclays, at some point, gave 
Mr W incorrect information about how Tech Pack insurance claims are settled. 
Barclays has explained that it has no record of it receiving a call from Mr W in which the 
insurance cover was discussed. Because of this, the adjudicator asked Mr W to provide any 
more evidence or information about this call, to help us look into this matter. Unfortunately, 
Mr W was unable to do so, although I appreciate that matters have not been helped as 
Barclays has since changed the insurer for the Tech Pack  and so Mr W is not sure what 
number he called. However, I note that Mr W says that when he asked about the specifics of 
the insurance cover, he says he called the Tech Pack helpline. 
I think this point is significant, because it is my understanding that when calling the Tech 
Pack helpline, consumers are generally put through to the product provider. Therefore, if Mr 
W did call the Tech Pack helpline, theres a possibility that he mayve actually been speaking 
with the insurer, or the third-party administrator of the policy (who acts on behalf of the 
insurer), rather than Barclays. But even if that were the case (although Im not necessarily 
saying it is), I would not be able to hold Barclays responsible, if a third party provided Mr W 
with incorrect information.
So when considering the evidence, beyond Mr Ws testimony, neither Barclays nor Mr W 
have been able to provide evidence to show that a telephone call took place - let alone what 
mayve been discussed in the call. And there is also the possibility that if Mr W did call the 
Tech Pack helpline, he might not have even been talking to Barclays at the time.
So when taking all of the above into account, I dont think there is enough evidence for me  
to say that its more likely than not that Barclays did give Mr W incorrect information about 
how claims could be settled under the Tech Pack cover.
It therefore follows that, in the circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require the 
Tech Pack fees to be refunded to Mr W, as he has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman