DRN-3841026
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) dealt with his claim 
for a refund of money he paid to an airline using his credit card.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr D booked a flight for himself. He paid £53.98 for the ticket and the 
flight was scheduled for 12 December 2021. He says he had to cancel this flight because a 
previous flight had already been cancelled by the airline. Mr D told us:
He cancelled this flight several weeks before it was due to take place, but the airline 
didnt refund him what hed paid for the flight;
he raised a chargeback with NBS in January 2022, but his claim was declined;
he complained to NBS that his claim hadnt been investigated thoroughly and he was 
given £25 compensation for the service hed received;
NBS refused to stop charging interest on the disputed transaction, and hes unhappy 
that its shared his personal data with credit reference agencies without his consent, 
resulting in his credit card limits being reduced;
he didnt receive a service from the airline because he didnt fly with it, so there 
should be no charge.
NBS rejected Mr Ds complaint. It said it had temporarily credited Mr Ds account with the 
disputed amount whilst it contacted the airlines bank to discuss a claim. It said the airlines 
bank confirmed that the transaction was valid, and because of this it had reapplied the 
£53.98 transaction to Mr Ds account. 
NBS said it had reviewed Mr Ds claim but had concluded that there was no basis upon 
which to raise a claim against the airline. It explained that the airlines terms and conditions 
confirm the applicable cancellation fee when a customer cancels a flight. It said that in 
Mr Ds particular case, because the cancellation fee  around £60  was more than the cost 
of the flight, no refund was due.
NBS acknowledged Mr D had not flown with the airline or used its services, but said he was 
still bound by its terms and conditions, and there were no grounds on this occasion to raise a 
claim.
NBS said it had gone on to consider a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) but had concluded that a claim couldnt succeed because the purchase didnt meet 
the criteria for protection under Section 75.
NBS said that its customer service adviser hadnt carried out all the relevant checks when 
Mr D contacted it. So, it credited his account with £25 in recognition of this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that in purchasing the ticket, Mr D had agreed to the airlines terms and conditions. 
And that under these terms and conditions, Mr D wasnt entitled to any refund under the 
chargeback scheme  the cost of the ticket was less than the airlines cancellation fee. The 
investigator also confirmed that because the cost of the ticket was only £53.98, it didnt 
reach the level required to consider a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974). This is because one of the criteria is that the cash price of the goods or service 
needs to be more than £100 but no more than £30,000.
The investigator considered what Mr D had said about NBS sharing his personal data with 
credit reference agencies without his consent. She said shed looked at the credit card terms 
and conditions and noted these state that NBS is allowed to share credit related activities 
with third parties like credit rating agencies.
Mr D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he shouldnt have to pay 
for a service that the airline didnt provide. And he says he didnt receive the £25 
compensation that NBS says it paid him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint, I want to emphasise that my decision is only concerned with 
NBS and how it considered Mr Ds dispute with the airline. The airline itself is not within my 
remit and I cannot comment on its actions and behaviour.
When a person pays for goods or services using a credit card, their credit card provider may 
be able to help them if there is a dispute over the purchase. There are two avenues via 
which a credit card provider can assist: chargeback and claims brought under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act.
Chargeback
The chargeback process allows debit and credit card users to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right 
to a chargeback, and a chargeback isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The 
process is limited to specific criteria. So, before ordering a bank to refund all or part of the 
cost of something, Id need to be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a 
chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations.
We generally consider that, as a matter of good practice, the card issuer should attempt a 
chargeback if the card holder has challenged a transaction and - taking into account relevant 
card scheme rules  it looks as if theres a fair chance that a chargeback request might 
succeed. But just because the customer makes a request it doesnt mean the chargeback 
will necessarily succeed. This is because the rules lay down strict conditions which must be 
satisfied for a chargeback claim to succeed.
These regulations are created by a third party, in this case VISA, and the bank has to follow 
them if it wants to initiate a chargeback. VISA is an international organisation which 
facilitates payments between different banks in the same and different countries. Its 
regulations seek to maintain a balance between merchants supplying goods and services, 
customers of these merchants, and the banks acting for each of them. Accordingly, in the 
case of the purchase and supply of goods or services, the regulations only permit a 
chargeback to the extent that there is a valid chargeback reason.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly  for example it should consider whether any defence made by a merchant is valid in accordance with the scheme rules before deciding not to 
proceed any further. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here.
Ive noted that NBS raised a chargeback and the airlines bank defended the position. The 
defence was on the basis that any refund due when Mr D cancelled his flight, was more than 
cancelled out by the cancellation charges set out in the terms and conditions. So, taking this 
into account, I can see why NBS didnt pursue the chargeback further. And although I can 
see Mr D has made many arguments about what constitutes proof of service, I must 
reemphasise that chargeback is a process governed by the card scheme rules laid down by 
VISA. Accordingly, Im not persuaded that NBS has treated Mr D unfairly by not continuing 
with the chargeback process.
Section 75 
Section 75, where it applies, allows a consumer to claim against their credit card provider in 
respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations by a supplier of goods or services they 
have paid using the card.
Our investigator was correct to say that in order for Section 75 protection to apply to Mr Ds 
ticket purchase, the price of the item being purchased would need to be over £100. 
However, the item in Mr Ds case  the airline ticket priced at £53.98  means Section 75 
does not apply. This means I have to conclude NBS did not act unfairly or unreasonably in 
not pursuing a Section 75 claim.
Compensation
Mr D says NBS didnt send him the £25 compensation that it says it did  he also says he 
doesnt have an account with NBS. So, we asked NBS to provide evidence of the payment it 
says it made. Ive now seen a copy statement for Mr Ds Flex Account  account ending 
*761  this shows a £25 credit was made to the account in March 2022. So, I dont think 
NBS needs to do anything more in connection with this matter.
Credit Reference Agency reporting
Finally, Ive also considered Mr Ds comments about his credit file. But I have to tell him that 
NBS was legally obliged to accurately report missed credit card payments to the credit 
reference agencies  it doesnt need his consent to do this. So, I cant ask NBS to amend 
the credit file because I dont think its done anything wrong.
Ive noted Mr Ds concerns that his credit rating has been affected. He says its having an 
effect on his other credit card limits. 
Mr D might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his 
credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case 
Mr D, to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take 
into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, Mr D should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman