DRN-3267642
The complaint
This complaint is a mortgage Mr F holds with Nationwide Building Society. He says he was 
lied to about how much extra he is meant to pay each month under a court order.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr F and Nationwide. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr F being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr Fs mortgage was originally with a lender Ill call D; that business later became part of 
Nationwide. For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to the business as Nationwide throughout this 
decision. In 2009, a court issued a suspended possession order that required Mr F to pay his 
monthly instalment plus a little over £156. That was varied by a consent order in 2012; Mr F 
was then required to pay the monthly instalment plus £50.
In 2021, in an email about the arrears on his account, Nationwide referred to the court order 
requiring him to pay the monthly instalment plus the higher amount. Mr F says that was a lie 
and a breach of mortgage regulation.
Our investigator agreed Nationwide had made a mistake but didnt think it needed to 
compensate Mr F. Mr F asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is missing, incomplete or contradictory, we reach our conclusion on the 
basis of what we consider is most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities, 
according to the evidence that is available. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use 
in civil cases.
In his email of 21 January 2022, Mr F specifically says the original court order was never for 
the higher amount. We dont have the original court order, but we do have correspondence 
that the instructing solicitors sent Nationwide after the hearing. That refers clearly to the 
order originally being for the higher amount. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Fs strength of feeling, on balance I think its quite possible that 
hes mistaken in his recollections about the terms of the original suspended possession 
order. But in any event, thats a moot point; Ill explain why.
In the same email, Mr F says that its irrelevant that he has failed to keep to either the 
original order from 2009 or the consent order from 2012. He says what we have to decide is 
solely about whether he was lied to, and not about whether he owes Nationwide money. 
Mr F is mistaken there.
When we consider a complaint, we dont just consider if a business made a mistake; we also 
have to consider the wider context in which the mistake occurred and the impact it may or 
may not have had. So whether Mr F did or didnt keep to the order in place from time to time 
is entirely relevant. It goes directly to whether Nationwide should reasonably have been 
corresponding with him, and whether in doing so, referring to the original amount from 2009 
instead of the amended amount from 2012 constituted unfair treatment. 
Thats the only test Im required to apply, and I dont find that Nationwide treated Mr F 
unfairly. Whatever order applied, Mr F was in breach of it and; his arrears are now more than 
twice the amount they were when he was first taken to court. Nationwide was reasonably 
entitled to pursue a new dialogue with a view to establishing a new agreement aimed at 
bringing the arrears up to date by the date the mortgage is due to end. Failing that, it has the 
option to revert to court in pursuit of a new order. If it does that, Mr F will have the 
opportunity to argue his case to the court. The mistaken reference to the original amount 
form 2009 doesnt change any of that.
The costs Mr F says he incurred in trying to vary the court order himself were down to the 
way he responded to Nationwides efforts to reach a new arrangement. He could have 
simply engaged in that dialogue with a view to reaching a mutual agreement. It was entirely 
Mr Fs right to approach the court instead; but it was his choice, and he must accept the 
consequences of that choice.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman