DRN-4081566
The complaint
Mr S complains about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with AutoMoney 
Limited.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by Ms C.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr S acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement financed by 
AutoMoney. The car was eight years old and the mileage was 61,000 miles. Its cash price 
was £7,125.
Early on, Mr S noticed that the car was sometimes sluggish. Then in July that year, the 
engine management light (EML) came on, and a tapping noise began coming from the 
engine. As the dealership that had supplied the car to him was some distance away, he took 
it to the nearest garage instead. That garage charged him £650 to fix issues with the wet 
belt, brake pads, and engine mount. Mr S asked the dealership for help, and as a gesture of 
good will the dealership offered to pay him half of that price, on the understanding that the 
dealership would not take responsibility for the work done by that garage without its 
authorisation. Mr S accepted that offer.
However, the work done by that garage failed to resolve the problem, and so in August Mr S 
took the car to another garage. Ms C says that Mr S took the car there because the 
dealership was no longer helping. This time it was a main dealer garage, but it was unable to 
solve the problem.
In October, the car was inspected by an independent expert, who wrote a report. He said 
that the condition of the car was below average. The mileage was now 66,793 miles (but 
Ms C says that the car has not been used since July). He did not do a test drive because he 
found that the car was unsafe to drive, as a brake calliper had seized and two brake discs 
were damaged. But the EML came on when he started the engine, and there was a fault 
code relating to the camshaft position. He thought that either the timing sensor had failed, 
which he said would have happened suddenly, or alternatively there had been timing chain 
deterioration which had happened over time, eventually causing the timing sensor to fail. He 
could not determine which it was without a full investigation in a workshop, which might 
require dismantling the engine. But given that the car had been driven 5,773 miles since 
Mr S had acquired it, the issue with the timing chain could have developed entirely since 
then. He concluded that the problem was the result of the age and mileage of the car, and 
that this was a maintenance issue. Based on this report, AutoMoney concluded that it was 
not responsible.
Ms C brought this complaint to our service on behalf of Mr S. Our investigator upheld it. He 
thought that the independent report, properly understood, was inconclusive. He pointed out 
that the law says that when a fault is discovered within six months of purchase, the burden of 
proof is on the supplier to prove that the fault was not present at the point of sale. So the 
investigator concluded that AutoMoney had failed to discharge that burden, and that it was 
responsible for the fault. He also said that the manufacturer recommends that a wet belt is 
replaced every 60,000 miles or every six years, and as the dealership had not done that 
before supplying the car to Mr S, the car had not been in satisfactory condition. He thought 
that the condition of the brakes was another fault which had been developing at the point of 
sale, because worn brake pads were listed as an advisory in the October 2021 MOT. He 
recommended that AutoMoney arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr S, and to 
pay him some compensation as well (including the balance of the price he had paid to the 
garage in July).
Ms C accepted that opinion; AutoMoney did not. It argued that Mr S should not have taken 
the car to an unauthorised garage, as this had deprived the dealership of the opportunity to 
repair the car itself, and to do so at trade cost instead of retail cost. The independent report 
had concluded that there had been no fault present or developing when the car was supplied 
to Mr S. Any faults the car still had might be the result of a botched repair by that garage. But 
as that garage had apparently replaced the timing chain,1 there was probably no need to 
repair or replace it again. AutoMoney asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the independent report carefully. With respect to my colleague, I do not agree 
that it is inconclusive. It is true that the author was unable to determine the precise fault, only 
managing to narrow it down to either of two possible alternatives. But his conclusion was 
that, whichever of the two it was, the fault had probably not been present or developing at 
the point of supply.
I will quote the relevant passages:
There appears to be two probable causes for the condition at this stage: 1) 
timing sensor issue has developed an issue which is normally related to an 
electrical defect and is relatively sudden in development or 2) timing chain 
deterioration has led to a correlation issue been noted by the sensor. 
Due to the time that has lapsed since purchase of the vehicle and the 
mileage covered, we would confirm that the engineering evidence will not 
support the defect under review have been present or were developing at the 
point of purchase and are the selling agent responsibility after 5,700 miles 
(sic) 
Although the timing chain condition would be classed progressive, sufficient 
time and mileage has elapsed for the condition to develop solely since sale. 
Electrical defects  can develop almost instantaneously. 
On this basis the conditions under review are most likely the result of in-
service deterioration
1 Im aware that the terms timing chain, timing belt, cam belt and wet belt refer to different things 
(although they have the same function). It isnt clear on the evidence which of these Mr Ss car has, 
but the independent report refers in different places to a timing chain and a timing belt 
interchangeably. Other evidence refers to the cam belt or the wet belt. However, I dont think I need to 
ascertain which kind it is to fairly resolve this case.I think the reports conclusion is clear. I am therefore satisfied that this report is sufficient 
evidence to show that AutoMoney is not responsible for the fault.
I would still have taken a different view about that if the manufacturer had recommended that 
the timing chain or belt should be replaced every 60,000 miles or every six years, since the 
car was eight years old when it was supplied to Mr S and its mileage then was 61,000 miles. 
However, that advice relates to a 2015 model, whereas Mr Ss car was registered in 2014 
and has a different kind of engine. For the engine in this car, the advice is that its timing 
chain or belt is replaced every 180,000km (or 111,000 miles) or every ten years. So I am not 
persuaded that the dealership needed to replace it before supplying the car to Mr S.
Turning to the brake pads, the fact that these were the subject of an advisory warning in the 
last MOT only means that they were expected to fail at some point in the future, not that they 
were already faulty. So I dont think the dealership was obliged to replace them before 
passing the car on to Mr S.
For all of these reasons, I do not think that AutoMoney has to do anything, because the car 
was not faulty at the point of supply.
I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
AutoMoney agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing to add. Mr S did not reply 
to it. So there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them 
here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman