DRN-1233175
complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in June 1995.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs P bought the PPI policy from Nationwide at the same as they were 
taking out a joint mortgage. Only Mr P was covered by the policy, which included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs P say they felt forced them into buying the policy. They also say they were told it 
would increase their chances of getting their mortgage because Mr P was self-employed. 
Additionally, they say it was difficult to keep up with the PPI repayments on top of the 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs P disagree, their 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.                                     
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and I have taken 
this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs P say they bought the PPI at a meeting and that Nationwide made a 
recommendation that they take out. Nationwide says its unlikely it made a recommendation 
that they buy it. However, it also doesnt know for certain how the policy was sold to them.
Unfortunately, the actual sale paperworks no longer available. Thats not unusual after so 
much time. But from what I know about Nationwides sale processes at the time, I think its 
more likely that it didnt make a recommendation about the policy to Mr and Mrs P. That 
means Nationwide needed to give Mr and Mrs P sufficient and clear information about the 
policy but it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable.
Ive thought carefully about what might have happened at the time of the sale of the policy in 
2003, given that the sale paperwork is no longer available. Again, Ive looked at the sales 
process and also the paperwork that I think most likely would have been used. All of that, 
plus the fact that Mr and Mrs P had taken on the commitment of having a mortgage at the 
same time, leads me to think that Mr and Mrs P were most likely aware that they were 
buying PPI and that they had a choice about whether to buy it. 
Ive seen that Mr M was eligible for the policy. That includes what Mr P told us about being 
self-employed at the time he bought the PPI. Having checked the policy, I dont think it would 
have been difficult for him to make a successful claim because of being self-employed. Ive 
also noticed that Mr P would not have been able to start claiming for 3 months, but once that happened he would be covered for up to 2 years. So I think on balance the policy provided a 
reasonable level of cover. 
But I havent seen anything to make me think that he wouldve been disadvantaged by any 
of the policys main exclusions. The policy would cover him if he made a successful claim for 
accident or sickness that kept him from working, or if he lost his job. 
Also, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs P said they could have relied on financial help from friends 
and family members if they got into difficulty with meeting their mortgage repayments. 
Having the reassurance that such help is available can only be a good thing but theres no 
guarantee that the help will always be there, given that individual circumstances can easily 
change. So these considerations dont change my decision.
I cant say for sure that Mr and Mrs P knew about the cost of the policy  which was initially 
£11.65 per month for a monthly benefit of £90.94. Nationwide says it would have given them 
details about the policy, including its cost, at the time of the sale. I cant know that that 
happened. But I think the benefit and reassurance the policy offered them about ensuring 
their mortgage was being paid and their home protected wouldve made the policy seem 
worthwhile to Mr and Mrs P. I say this taking into account that this would have meant paying 
a moderate sum for the premium each month on top of their mortgage.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way the policy was sold but, 
having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs P would still have decided to buy the 
policy, even if theyd been better advised and informed.
Ive seen the further comments Mr and Mrs P made in response to what our adjudicator said. 
But they dont affect my decision. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs P on this 
occasion. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman