DRN-3591988
The complaint
On behalf of himself and his mother (Mrs G), Mr G has complained about the way Santander 
dealt with a request for a change of parties on a mortgage account. To settle the complaint 
Mr G would like Santander to reimburse legal costs, apologise to Mrs G and pay 
compensation for lost time, stress and anxiety.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs G being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr G had a mortgage held jointly with his partner, with a balance of about £200,000. Their 
relationship came to an end. Mr G agreed with Mrs G that, to enable him to purchase his 
partners interest in the property, Mrs G would sell her property, give Mr G the proceeds of 
sale (about £435,000) and move into the property with him. At the same time, Mr G would 
apply to remove his former partner from the mortgage. This arrangement would meet both 
the financial and family needs of all concerned.
Initially the application was made in the sole name of Mr G, with Mrs G stated to be an 
occupant over the age of 17. In order for Santander to agree to this arrangement, the 
mortgage would have to be in the joint names of Mr and Mrs G as otherwise it wouldnt meet 
its lending policy. Santander also needed Mrs G to take independent legal advice (ILA) 
because she was gifting a substantial sum of money and so it was necessary to ensure she 
was aware of the implications in relation to the mortgage.
Mr G also needed to make a lump sum reduction in the capital balance in order for 
Santander to release the other borrower on the mortgage account, as Mr Gs sole earnings 
were insufficient to meet the loan-to-income criteria.
Although Mrs G had taken some initial legal advice, her solicitor needed to see the mortgage 
offer before he would give detailed advice. However, Santander wasnt able to issue the 
mortgage offer until it was satisfied the advice had been given. Thus a stalemate arose, as a 
result of which the application didnt proceed any further. Mr G approached an independent 
mortgage broker who arranged a mortgage for him with another lender.
A complaint was raised that Santander had wasted time and caused him and Mrs G to incur 
unnecessary legal expenses. Santander accepted there had been delays with the 
application and in logging the complaint, for which Santander offered compensation of £250. 
However, Santander explained that it wasnt able to waive its lending policy of needing 
Mrs G to be named on the mortgage account.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr G complained to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in 
relation to the application of its lending policy. He thought the £250 compensation for delays 
was fair.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says that, no 
matter how accommodating and willing Santanders frontline staff were in trying to progress 
the application and come up with a workable solution, they came up against the inflexibility 
of Santanders policy and the uncompromising attitude of the underwriters. In addition, the 
requirements of Santander to ensure Mrs G understood what she was entering into 
appeared to call into question her ability to understand the concept of the arrangement.
Although Mr G accepts the £250 for delays, he says this is in addition to his original claim for 
reimbursement of legal fees and compensation for distress and inconvenience, not instead 
of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr G says there were three separate applications here  one to remove his former 
partner from the mortgage account, an application to transfer the mortgage into his sole 
name, and an application in joint names for himself and Mrs G. However, these were all part 
of the same set of events, and so for practical purposes, are a single application. 
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
In this case, Santanders policy (as explained to Mr G) is that, where a sum of money is 
being gifted by someone who is intending to occupy the property, that person needs to be 
joined in the mortgage application. There are legal reasons for this, in relation to overriding 
interests taking priority over Santanders legal charge, if that person isnt joined in the 
mortgage. 
I find it is reasonable for Santander to want to protect its interests in this way. Indeed, there 
is a considerable amount of case law, including Williams & Glyn's Bank v Boland [1980] 
UKHL 4, Royal Bank of Scotland plc v Etridge (No 2) [2001] UKHL 44 and Scott vs Southern 
Pacific Mortgages Limited [2014] UKSC 52 that support the need for borrowers, occupiers 
and lenders to protect their respective positions when entering into a transaction where there 
is potential for undue influence to be exercised.
The need for a non-owning occupier (in this case, Mrs G) needing to take ILA is unrelated to 
whether or not she is, as Mr G says, compos mentis; rather it is for her protection, to 
ensure that she is aware of the implications of entering into the mortgage contract and that 
she is not subject to any undue influence. Santander would require anyone in Mrs Gs 
position to have ILA, irrespective of their age. 
Mrs Gs solicitor wouldnt give Mrs G detailed advice without seeing the mortgage terms and 
conditions. That was a matter for them, no doubt taking into consideration their own 
exposure to risk in relation to professional negligence. However, the matter couldnt proceed 
any further without confirmation Mrs G had had ILA, and Im not persuaded this is the fault of 
Santander. In my experience, mortgage terms and conditions are fairly standard, and in any event, Santanders are available online and so are in the public domain. However, if Mrs Gs 
solicitor wasnt comfortable with the risk of giving Mrs G advice without a formal mortgage 
offer, that wasnt Santanders fault. Given this, Im not persuaded Santander should be liable 
for the legal fees incurred.
Mr G has confirmed he accepts the £250 compensation Santander has already paid for 
delays in the application and in lodging the complaint. I think this is fair compensation, and is 
proportionate to the delays involved and the resulting inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman