DRN-2985357
The complaint
Miss R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she attempted to 
make on her car insurance.
Any reference I make to Aviva also includes its agents.
  
What happened
In February 2021, Miss R noticed that there were pools of water forming in the footwell of the 
passenger side of her car. Over the course of a couple of weeks this then began to affect the 
electrics too. 
On 8 February 2021 Miss R contacted Aviva to make a claim. Miss R let Aviva know that she 
wasnt sure where the leak was coming from and she confirmed she hadnt driven through 
any substantial amounts of water. 
Avivas engineer inspected Miss Rs car. They said that there had been extensive water 
ingress that had been caused by an unknown fault and that this had caused electrical faults 
with the car. The engineer didnt think that the cause of the water ingress was as a result of 
accidental damage. 
Miss R says that the engineer called her to let her know the outcome of the report. And they 
said that while Miss R wouldnt be covered for the cause of water ingress, she would be 
covered for the electrical damage this had caused. 
After this, Miss R says she contacted Aviva on many occasions to find out what was 
happening with her car. She was continuously told that it was trying to get hold of the 
engineer to discuss the report. And essentially, a decision wasnt made about her claim for 
around ten weeks. Which also meant that Miss R was without a car for this time. 
On 20 April 2021, Aviva let Miss R know that it was declining her claim. It said that the 
damage caused to her car wasnt accidental, and more likely to have been wear and tear 
that has got worse over time. Aviva said that this isnt something that Miss R is covered for 
under her policy. 
Miss R was unhappy with this outcome. She said shed been led to believe, by the engineer, 
that the consequential damage to her car would be covered. And she wasnt financially 
prepared to pay for the repairs herself. She says that shes been out of pocket for a number 
of reasons, and I have listed these below:
Cost of repairs
Loan repayment to the car
Road tax and insurance
Cost of insuring a different car to use
Miss R also tell this service that her parents have been impacted by whats happened 
because she had to borrow their car for much longer than initially anticipated. She said she 
lost out on time given how often she had to chase Aviva for updates. And shes lost out 
because she intended to sell her car, but since Aviva took so long do deal with the claim, her 
MOT expired, and the car was worth much less than it was previously valued. So she was 
forced to pay for the repairs because it wouldnt have been financially viable for her to sell it 
at a much lower price. 
Aviva responded to Miss Rs complaint. It said that it had fairly assessed the claim  and that 
after considering the engineers report, because the damage to the car wasnt caused by an 
insured peril, she wasnt covered under the policy. It apologised for the misinformation the 
engineer gave to Miss R and offered her £100 to compensate her for the mismanagement of 
her expectations and for letting her down.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss R and upheld the complaint. While she thought 
Avivas decision to decline the claim was a fair one, she thought there were areas where 
Miss R had been let down. She thought that Avivas offer of £100 for the mismanagement of 
Miss Rs expectations was fair. But in addition to the £100, Aviva should also compensate 
£50 for the insurance she paid on her parents car and £150 for the inconvenience caused to 
Miss R for having to continuously contact Aviva for updates. So £300 in total. 
Aviva responded to our investigator to say it didnt agree. It said it agreed to reimburse Miss 
R £50 for the insurance she paid to use her parents car. But it thought that £300 in total was 
too high for the issues Miss R raised. And it thought that £150 was more reasonable. 
Miss R also raised some additional points, but it appears our investigator has addressed 
these appropriately.
Because Aviva doesnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my decision to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
There doesnt appear to be much dispute between the parties over the declined claim 
anymore. But for completeness, I have looked at this too. I have seen a copy of the 
engineers report that confirms that no apparent accident damage capable of having
allowed water into the cabin. And an additional comment was made by an engineer at a 
separate time that said The loom on the car is severely corroded, this has happened over a 
period of time and has not been caused by a singular event.
Ive looked at the policy documents for Miss Rs cover. Under the section for exclusions it 
says We will not pay for damage under the Repair Guarantee arising from deterioration and 
wear and tear or parts and component failures.Based on the engineers report and comments  and information from the policy documents, 
I think Aviva has fairly declined the claim. The engineer confirms that no accident had 
happened that could have caused the damage, and that the loom on the car had become 
corroded over time  so I think Aviva have made a fair assessment in deciding that the 
damage was more likely to be as a result of wear and tear. As deterioration or wear and tear 
isnt covered under the policy, I dont find that Aviva has done anything wrong in declining 
the claim. 
I can understand why Miss R is upset with this decision  especially given that she says she 
was told something different by the engineer. While I appreciate that it must have been very 
upsetting to be told that some of the repairs would be covered, and later be told they werent 
 for the reasons Ive already stated above, I dont think this means that Aviva should pay 
out on the claim. 
But I do agree that Aviva should compensate Miss R for not managing her expectations 
here. Especially given that it had a number of opportunities to let Miss R know that it 
wouldnt be the engineer who would normally make a decision on whether a claim would be 
paid out or not. So it could have made her aware much sooner that the outcome of the claim 
hadnt been decided. Aviva has excepted that it could have done better here and offered 
Miss R £100. I think this is fair in the circumstances. While I appreciate that this 
misinformation wasnt helpful, it ultimately hasnt impacted the claim itself, because Avivas 
decision would have still remained the same. 
Ive also thought about the delays that were caused during the assessment of this claim, and 
how Aviva communicated with Miss R during this period. Based on the notes Ive seen, it 
took around ten weeks for Aviva to let Miss R know the outcome of her claim. This is a very 
long time considering it had the information it needed to let her know relatively quickly. The 
delays appear to have come from when Aviva needed to confirm something with the 
engineer, and it took them around five weeks to get hold of him. I can understand that this 
delay must have been frustrating for both parties. But given that the engineer was working 
for Aviva in some capacity, I think Aviva are responsible for these delays. 
Ive also looked at how Aviva communicated with Miss R during this time. And I have to say 
that based on what Ive seen, it did very little. I can see Miss R spent time contacting Aviva 
on a regular basis. And I havent seen any evidence of Aviva proactively keeping Miss R up 
to date with the progress of the claim. 
Overall, Ive thought about the impact the delays and the lack of communication has had on 
Miss R. I accept that a claims process can take some time. But I do think the ten weeks it 
took Aviva was too long  and that there was an unnecessary delay of around five weeks 
waiting for a response from the engineer. I havent seen anything that persuades me Aviva 
even attempted to keep Miss R updated during this process. Understandably, Miss R was 
keen to get her car back  shes said she needed a car to drive her child to nursery each 
day. While she was lucky enough to have the use of her parents car, I imagine the 
uncertainty about if or when her parents might revoke this help would have been stressful. 
And so, I think the £150 our investigator suggested seems like a fair way to compensate 
Miss R for this.
I appreciate Miss R feels the delays and misinformation combined has led to further losses, 
but I dont think I can fairly say that these are of a direct result of something Aviva has done 
wrong. I know Miss R says that if Aviva had told her sooner that she wouldnt be covered for 
the repairs then she would have sold her car and paid off the loan she took out for the car. 
She says that because the claim took so long, her MOT had expired, and the car 
depreciated in value, so Miss R was forced to pay for repairs.  I havent seen anything on file 
that suggests that Miss Rs plan was to sell the car if the claim wasnt paid out  and I dont know if Miss R would have actually done this had Aviva given her an answer quicker. Even if 
Aviva had given Miss R an answer quicker, Miss R would still have needed to sell the car  
which needed repairs, and I cant be certain that she would have been able to do this before 
the MOT expired anyway. So Im not persuaded that Aviva are responsible for any losses 
Miss R says she incurred here. 
Aviva has agreed to reimburse Miss R £50 for the cost of insuring herself on her parents car 
 I think this is fair in the circumstances. Miss R says that she has lost out financially on 
other expenses relating to the car too  for example road tax, insurance and the loan 
repayments. But Miss R would have needed to pay these things anyway, so I dont think 
shes lost out. 
Putting things right
Ive taken on board Avivas comments, in that it thinks that a total of £300 is too much for 
whats happened. But it hasnt really provided me with much reason as to why it thinks this. 
Ive thought about the overall impact of everything thats happened here, like Ive explained, 
there have been delays, Miss R has been caused distress, and she has been 
inconvenienced as a result of some of the things that Aviva could have done better. These 
issues spanned over the course of a number of weeks, and so I dont find that a £300 award 
for these things is unreasonable.
Aviva needs to put things right for Miss R by paying her £300.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Rs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited needs 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman