DRN-3865465
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs I has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
As Mr H mainly dealt with the claim and complaint, for ease, I will normally only refer to him. 
References to Aviva include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H found water damage to a wall in his bathroom and a wall in his bedroom. He contacted 
Aviva to make a claim. Aviva sent a surveyor and then declined the claim. It said the 
damage had been caused gradually and so wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr H complained, Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr H 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the damage was 
the result of a water leak and that it was reasonable to accept that Mr H wasnt aware of the 
damage until he made the claim. As Mr H had already had work carried out to deal with the 
damage, our investigator said Aviva should consider the invoice and settle the damage 
covered by the claim. But this didnt include items such as a whole new bathroom suite. He 
said Aviva should also pay £150 compensation because of the way it had dealt with his 
claim and complaint.
Aviva replied to the investigators findings and said it still thought it was reasonable to 
decline the claim. It also provided further comments from the loss adjuster, which included 
him saying part of the damage might reasonably be covered as part of the claim. Our 
investigator wrote to both parties and said his view hadnt changed about how the claim 
should be settled.
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The first issue is whether the claim was for something covered by the policy. When Mr H 
contacted Aviva, he was asked to arrange for a plumber to deal with the leak itself. The 
plumber said:
There is significant water damage been caused by a leaking enclosed shower valve. The 
water from the valve has penetrated into both the bedroom and the floor of the En suite. 
Plasterboard in the bedroom will need to be removed, timbers dried out and then replaced. 
The shower unit will need to be removed along with tiles and plasterboard. There is damage 
to the chipboard flooring which has began to swell with the water intake, the chipboard 
flooring will need to be replaced for the majority of the bathroom which would mean taking 
the toilet and basin out to do so. Flooring in the bedroom would need to be assessed when 
carpet is taken up. Bedroom will require to be taped and filled on completion and then 
decorated.
When Avivas surveyor visited, he said:
The location of the water damage and high moisture readings are all on the gable end wall 
and not beside the location of the shower valve. On closer inspection of the area the seals 
and grout appear to have failed allowing moisture to penetrate behind. This has been the 
root cause and not the shower valve. The damage to the wall out with the enclosure has 
been clearly visible and ongoing for at least 6 months. The customer would have been 
aware and should have mitigated the loss, however there has been no attempt to repair or 
resolve the leak and only contacted the insurers when he found further damage in the 
adjoining bedroom.
So, although the plumber said the damage was the result of a leaking valve, Avivas 
surveyor didnt agree. However, following our investigator issuing his initial findings, Avivas 
loss adjuster reassessed the claim and said:
With the matter of the plumbing report for the leak to the shower valve  it may be 
considered that this is an isolated incident within the shower. This may be considered, 
however it would not be considered that all work was needed as a result of this given the 
condition of the tile grout and the shower seals which would be a contributing factor to the 
overall damage within the bathroom.
If you do wish to consider the damage from the valve leak, this should be maintained at the 
tile work only with removal and refitting of the cubicle. The other work would be strongly 
related to the maintenance of the shower area.
The loss adjuster seemed to accept there was a leak related to the shower valve, which he 
said might mean some of the work was covered. However, when Aviva passed the 
comments on to this service, it seemed to maintain its position that it was reasonable to 
decline the claim. I dont think that was fair or in line with what its loss adjuster concluded. I 
think the evidence shows Mr H had a valid claim under the policy.
So, Ive also thought about the extent of the damage and whether any of it can fairly be 
declined as gradual damage. Even though the loss adjuster accepted that some of the 
damage seemed to be the result of a leak, he was also of the view that some of it was due to 
the condition of the tile grout and shower seals and that this had contributed to the damage. 
Looking at the surveyors findings and the comments from the loss adjuster, I dont think 
either clearly explain what difference any issues with the seals and grout made to the claim 
overall or why this meant the wider damage shouldnt be covered. The plumber who 
inspected the damage about a month before Avivas surveyor saw the damage said he 
found extensive damage that could be attributed to the leaking shower valve. Im not 
persuaded that Aviva has shown that its findings are more compelling or should be relied on 
over those of the plumber. Based on what Ive seen, I think its fair to rely on the plumbers 
findings that the shower leak was the main cause of the wider damage.
Ive then thought about whether Mr H should have been aware of the damage sooner than 
he was. The main damage that is disputed seems to have been in two places. One was to 
the wall in the bathroom and the other was to the corresponding part of the wall in the 
neighbouring bedroom. The damaged part of the wall in the bathroom had a laundry basket 
in front of it. The damaged wall in the bedroom had a chest of drawers in front of it. I wouldnt 
generally expect policyholders to be moving furniture on a regular basis without a particular reason to do so. I think it is reasonable to accept that Mr H didnt see the damage building 
up behind those items until he moved one of them and found an issue. 
Ive also thought about whether the signs of damp in the bathroom, including close to the 
laundry basket, meant Mr H should have been aware. Mr H said he knew the paint used in 
the bathroom wasnt designed for that environment and had thought that the general 
moisture in the bathroom had caused issues, such as some fading. Thinking about this, I 
think that is credible and provides a reasonable explanation for why he didnt realise there 
was potentially a wider issue. So, on that basis, I think Aviva needs to deal with the damage 
found.
Im aware that Mr H has already had the work carried out. He has provided a quote or 
invoice for the work. This seems to include work such as replacing some items of the 
bathroom suite. Although it appears to have been necessary to remove some of these items 
to carry out the repair work, I would normally expect such items to be refitted wherever 
possible unless there was a clear reason why they couldnt be refitted, such as they were 
damaged and needed to be replaced as part of the claim. So, although I think Aviva needs to 
be pay for the work that was necessary to deal with the damage and that what Mr H has 
provided is a helpful basis for deciding this, I think it is reasonable for Aviva to consider 
which aspects of the work were necessary parts of repairing the damage. Aviva should then 
pay a cash settlement to cover those costs.
Ive also thought about compensation. I can see that Mr H and Mrs I were caused distress 
and inconvenience by the claim being unfairly declined. Aviva also didnt respond to some of 
Mr Hs queries, including his request to see the surveyors report. As a result, I think Aviva 
should pay Mr H and Mrs I £150 compensation.
Putting things right
Aviva should settle the claim and review the costs Mr H and Mrs I have paid in order to 
agree a cash settlement. Aviva should also pay £150 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim.
Review the costs Mr H and Mrs I paid to have the damage repaired and to pay a cash 
settlement for the items that were covered by the claim.
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman