DRN-3688401
The complaint
Ms D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc referred a payment for further security checks, 
blocked her account and referred her to a branch before she could use her account again.  
What happened
On 7 September 2021 Ms D attempted to make a payment of £1,000 to a business, C. 
HSBC did not complete the payment but sent Ms D a text message asking her to contact the 
bank. When she did so, the bank asked a number of questions about the payment and the 
circumstances in which Ms D had come to make it. 
Ms Ds answers did not give HSBC sufficient confidence to proceed with the payment. The 
bank indicated in the course of discussions with Ms D that it remained concerned that she 
might the victim of a fraud if it allowed the payment to go ahead. 
Because of those concerns, HSBC blocked online access to the account. It asked Ms D to 
attend a branch to arrange for the block to be removed  which it was, the following day. 
Ms D complained about the banks actions, first to HSBC and then to this service. Our 
investigator concluded that the bank was within its rights to query the payment and, when it 
was not satisfied with the information which Ms D had provided, to stop the payment and 
restrict the account. Ms D did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks do of course have systems in place to reduce the risk that they or their customers are 
victims of fraud. Amongst other things, those systems are designed to minimise (i) the risk 
that the bank acts on payment instructions which are not given by their customer and (ii) the 
risk that a customer is tricked into making a payment which they would not otherwise have 
made. 
A number of banks, including HSBC, have agreed to a voluntary code in respect of 
authorised push payments  that is, payments which a customer has authorised because 
they have been tricked by a fraudster into making them. The effect of the code is that, in 
some cases, the bank can be liable for any losses, even if the customer made the payment. 
As a result, banks will check both that the genuine customer has made the payment and that 
they have not been tricked into doing so. Checking that a customer has not been tricked into 
making a payment will often mean asking the customer about the background to and reason 
for the payment. 
Ms Ds account was subject to HSBCs account terms and conditions. Section 6 was headed 
Restricting your account access. It said that HSBC could block services such as online 
banking where it had security concerns, but that it would only do so if it reasonably believed 
it was necessary. 
In this case, I do not believe it was necessary to block or restrict the account. The payment 
was authorised, and Ms D had not in fact been tricked into making it. The issue however is 
not whether Ms D was in fact the target of a fraudster but whether HSBC had concerns that 
she might be. Having listened to the calls between the bank and Ms D about the transfer, I 
can understand why the bank remained concerned about it. I do not believe that Ms D was 
uncooperative, but I can see why the bank took the view that there was a risk that the 
payment might have been the result of a scam. It did not have enough information to be sure 
the payment was genuine.
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that HSBC was within its rights to stop the 
payment and restrict the account until it could satisfy itself that the payment request was 
genuine.                
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman