DRN-3205265
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with an enforced cancellation of her motor insurance policy with Highway
Insurance Company Limited (Highway).
For the purposes of this decision, any reference to Highway also includes the actions of its
agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss S and Highway. I wont repeat
in detail what is already known to both parties.
In August 2020 Miss S took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by Highway. A
condition of the policy was to have a telematics box fitted in her car. Highway contacted
Miss S on two occasions in October 2020 and December 2020 to let her know that shed
been recorded speeding. On the second occasion they let her know that if there was a third
instance of an extreme speeding event then her policy would be cancelled.
On 14 December 2020 Highway contacted Miss S to tell her a third instance had been
recorded and that her policy would be cancelled in 7 days.
Miss S was unhappy and got in touch with our service. We made Highway aware of her
complaint. Miss S said that she hadnt been driving on the date of the second speeding
instance. Highway investigated the complaint and issued their final response letter on
22 February 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss S remained unhappy and asked our service to formally look into her complaint. Miss S
then provided evidence that she hadnt exceeded the alleged 20mph speed limit as the
actual speed limit of the stretch of road in question was 50mph.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. Highway
accepted the recommendations. Miss S partially accepted the recommendations, but felt that
the £150 award recommended for stress and inconvenience should be increased.
Miss S referred to the impact the cancellation had on her finances and personal family
relationships as she had to borrow money to fund the new replacement insurance policy.
Miss S also said she likely wouldve gotten cheaper insurance than her cancelled policy
elsewhere - but for the insurance cancellation being on her record.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision. Both parties were sent a copy of my 
provisional decision on 16 December 2021. Highway confirmed receiving it and had no 
further comments to add. Miss S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no evidence has been presented by either party, I see no fair or reasonable decision to 
deviate from my provisional findings. Ive included a copy of them below as they form part of 
this, my final decision.
Copy of provisional decision
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Both parties are broadly in agreement with the investigators recommendations that the
cancellation was incorrect (apart from the award of compensation) and I note Highway has
already tried to take steps to remedy this situation.
It wasnt until the final response letter was issued that the detail around which roads she was
alleged to have been speeding on was fully shared with Miss S. At this point Miss S provided
clear and detailed evidence that the alleged speed limit for the road in question was 50mph
and not 20mph - as Highway had based their decision on.
Although I accept Miss S possibly couldve queried where it was she was alleged to have
been driving over the speed limit (after the first two speeding notices), I find that in this case
reasonable responsibility still lay with Highway to ensure the soundness of the data they
were relying on to cancel a policy  particularly as the expert in this relationship and theyll
be aware that an insurance cancellation can have large financial implications on a driver.
I acknowledge the specifics of Miss Ss initial complaint about the cancellation were that she
wasnt driving on one of the dates she was allegedly speeding - and have kept this in mind
when deciding what a fair and reasonable financial remedy is. But in my opinion, the alleged
inaccuracy about whether or not Miss S was even correctly recorded driving on one of the
dates arguably possibly shouldve been enough to put Highway on notice that they needed
to investigate the reliability of the data.
Its possible that this may or may not have brought to light sooner the error and reduced
some of the impact of this error on Miss S. Setting that aside, Ive taken Miss Ss response
to the final response letter as when Highway were fully put on notice that the speeding data
they based their cancellation on was potentially incorrect. In their business file to our service
Highway stated:
As such, the policy should not have been cancelled and the data should have
been referred to [third party redacted by ombudsman] once the complaint was
raised back in January [bold added for emphasis by ombudsman].
But it wasnt until 27 July 2021 that Highway received confirmation that the speed limit was
incorrect. This was a number of months after the potential error had been brought to their
attention and this compounded the impact on Miss S.
I currently intend to find that the £150 our investigator recommended for stress and
inconvenience doesnt go far enough to recognise the impact on Miss S. I intend to increase
the award to £250 which I believe to be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of
Highways error on Miss S. This accounts for the uncertainty, frustration, and worry this
situation will have caused her - as well as the missed opportunity to identify the error sooner.
Miss S raised a point after our investigators assessment about this cancellation error on herrecord meaning she was unable get cheaper insurance elsewhere. Whilst this is correct, I
intend to direct Highway to reimburse her the difference between the more expensive
replacement policy and the cost shed originally paid for the cancelled policy - to put her
back in the position she likely wouldve been in had the error not happened and to ensure
shes not financially disadvantaged.
Putting things right
Although I acknowledge Highway has already taken positive steps to remedy the situation, I 
intend to direct them to:
Refund to Miss S any charges (fees and commission) resulting from the cancellation
the date the policy was cancelled until the date the payment is made;
Ensure that any record of an enforced cancellation is removed from internal or
relevant external databases - including the Claims and Underwriting Exchange
(CUE) and provide Miss S with written confirmation that this has been done;
Refund the difference in premiums (subject to reasonable proof of the difference)
between the cancelled policy and the cost of the new policy Miss S took out and add
simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date the new policy was taken out
until the date the payment is made; and
Pay Miss S £250 for the trouble and upset this incorrect cancellation has caused her. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Highway Insurance Company Limited should now follow my direction 
as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman