DRN-3816976
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) caused damage following work 
it carried out under his home emergency policy.
For the avoidance of doubt Amtrust includes its agents, claims handlers and contractors in 
this decision letter.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr J noticed that the drainage at his property was flushing slowly and he 
thought there could be a blockage, so he contacted Amtrust for assistance under his home 
emergency policy. Amtrust sent an engineer the next day and Mr J said that the engineer 
vigorously plunged the toilet for about 15 minutes with an industrial plunger to try to resolve 
the issue however the attempt was unsuccessful. Following the engineers visit, Mr J said 
that his neighbour from the flat below called round to say they had a leak through the kitchen 
ceiling which was causing damage to the plaster.
Mr J contacted Amtrust for an update the following day and was advised a trace and access 
may be needed to find where the leak was coming from. Mr J thought the leak had been 
caused by the engineers visit and he attempted to instruct a drainage engineer to see if the 
issue could be resolved and to establish whether the engineer caused damage. Mr J said 
that an engineer was unwilling to attend due to the damage caused. Amtrust then arranged 
for a new engineer to attend Mr Js property due to the blocked toilet. He used different 
equipment and CCTV but was still unable to clear the blockage. He discovered however that 
the problem was to do with external pipework. 
Amtrust initially thought it could carry out the repair but then found that this would be outside 
the policy limit. Mr Js buildings insurers were then contacted to set up a claim. Mr J made a 
complaint to Amtrust as it hadnt fixed the drainage problem and indeed, he felt that the leak 
into his neighbours property was caused by its engineer. Mr J had health issues and, as he 
was unable to use the toilet and shower facilities at his home for over a month, he had to go 
to live with a friend. He complained that he received no contact or updates from Amtrust for 
the period up until the end of 2021. In the absence of evidence of the leak having been 
caused by its engineer, Amtrust declined to pay for the cost of damage to the neighbours 
property. It accepted thered been communication delays and paid Mr J £200 compensation.
Mr J was unhappy about Amtrusts response to his complaint and he referred his complaint 
to our service. However, the services investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. Whilst she 
accepted that there was no evidence to show there had been a leak prior to Amtrusts 
involvement, she thought that the leak could have happened in any event and without the 
Amtrust intervention. She said that the poor condition of the pipes and also the cause 
and extent of the blockage indicated this to be the case. As to the expert report of Mr Js 
buildings insurer, she said it didnt mention that the leak was due to the actions of the 
first engineer. She said she couldnt fairly ask Amtrust to do to anything more as the report 
indicated that the leak was due to pressure from the blocked pipeline. As she didnt think this 
was damage caused by the engineer when he plunged the toilet, she didnt ask Amtrust to 
do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Our investigator also thought that the offer of £200 compensation fairly reflected the 
delays Mr J experienced. Overall, she considered that Amtrust had dealt with the complaint 
fairly in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and thought the outcome was fair. 
Mr J remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue for me to determine is whether Amtrust acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner in declining to cover damage in this case. Unfortunately for Mr J, I cant say that 
Amtrust has acted in an unfair or unreasonable. My reasons for reaching this conclusion are 
as follows.
The starting point in our decisions is the wording of the policy. Here, Mr Js policy covered 
domestic emergencies and provided for appointment of a suitably qualified contractors to 
carry out emergency plumbing work such as dealing with sudden and unexpected plumbing 
and drainage problems. This included blockage of the drains or plumbing system likely to 
cause damage to the Home Cover isnt however in place for any claim arising from any 
wilful or negligent act or omission or arising from damage in the course of the repairer 
investigation of the cause of the emergency.. Nor is cover in place if damage was covered 
by another policy.
Turning to the submissions of the parties, Mr J has provided a detailed account of the 
events. He said that after Amtrusts engineer left the property, he received a knock on his 
door from his neighbour who said that water was dripping through her kitchen ceiling and 
onto her floor. This water leak continued for several hours and then stopped but caused 
plaster to fall from the ceiling. Mr J provided video evidence of this ceiling damage. Mr J was 
clear that the water leak only came about from the actions of Amtrusts engineer. It was his 
view that vigorous plunging in a toilet can cause damage to drains and cause water leaks, 
this is a known fact. Mr J was clear that there was no water leak from the drainage system 
into his neighbours property prior to this. He added that the drainage system was a sealed 
unit, so there could be no leaks, even with a partial blockage further down the line. He said 
there had never previously been any leaks from his drains. He suggested that if the engineer 
had damaged the drain then this would seem a likely cause. 
Mr J accepted that the drain blockage was subsequently found to be on the outside wall at 
the rear of the building about 7-9 meters away from where [the engineer] was plunging. Due 
to the flats location, Mr J thought that the first stage would be to treat the problem with 
caution and with pre-checks. He thought that the engineer should have waited until he had 
proper access and to use a drain camera which would have taken 5-10 minutes to analyse 
the fault before taking any immediate action. He said this would have indicated how much 
water was in the drain, the location of the blockage and the risk involved, before plunging 
vigorously for 15 minutes. He thought plunging would have caused a build-up of pressure 
which then allowed water to cascade back towards the bathroom, allowing water to escape 
into his neighbours property. Mr J added that the expert report of his building insurers had 
specified this cautious approach and he considered that Amtrust should have done the same 
in December 2021, however thought that Amtrust had acted in a negligent manner. He also 
queried why Amtrust had provided no engineers report.Mr J said that his neighbour had been left for a year with a wet internal false kitchen ceiling 
with possible mould and rot damage and possibly the same would be the case under Mr Js 
bathroom floor since December 2021. Mr J said that his buildings and contents insurer had 
eventually cleared the blockage in January 2022, and that they too allowed water to leak into 
his neighbours property. He had now arranged quotations for the work as he couldnt leave 
the situation unattended. He wanted Amtrust to make a reasonable cash settlement or to 
carry out repair works to his bathroom floor and his neighbours kitchen ceiling. Mr J felt that 
the damage had affected his health and his sleep. In conclusion, he said that the damage 
was not his fault and certainly had nothing to do with his neighbour. He didnt think he 
should be left with responsibility to repair and replace his neighbours kitchen ceiling which 
he said was Amtrusts fault. He thought that hed received a terrible service and that he was 
unable to speak to anyone to tell him what would happen next and had experienced long 
waiting times to be connected.
Amtrust responded as follows in its final response of February 2022. It said that unless it 
received positive evidence that its engineer had caused physical damage to the pipes in 
negligently plunging the drain, it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of the damage. Following 
the attempt to clear the blockage through industrial plunging, Amtrust noted the drainage 
was still backing up, indicating a blockage further down the line, which could be causing the 
leak. Following another visit, it said that as the bathroom was tiled, the engineer couldnt see 
any visible leak and advised Mr J that a drainage company was required to clear the 
blockage and then possibly leak detection to pinpoint any leak. This was because hed 
already used rods a large spring and drainage camera but was unable to clear the blockage. 
Amtrust then advised Mr J that trace and access, was required and to contact his buildings 
and contents insurer. 
Amtrust said that the problem was on the 3.5 meters of external pipework, at the rear of the 
property on the third floor. An access tower was recommended to gain access to the cast 
waste pipe as the pipe would then need to be opened and cleared. It explained that it 
couldnt cover any costs which went over Mr Js policy limits and ultimately, a claim was set 
up with his buildings insurer. Amtrust denied negligence or causing any damage. Its 
contractors also stated that even if a remote pipe was dislodged as a result of plunging then 
they are not liable as they could not anticipate this and the joints on said pipe should not 
have parted or become damaged as a result of plunging. It said that completing a CCTV 
survey was not part of its emergency repair service. It considered there was no evidence to 
suggest any negligence on the part of its contractor and stated; In fact there arent even any 
details of pipe damage- this would be the very minimum needed in terms of evidence to 
support a claim.
As to delays, Amtrust noted that from mid-December to the end of December 2021, Mr J had 
received no communication. It accepted that it hadnt passed information to its claim handler 
until the end of December and said that its offices were closed during the bank holiday 
period. Although it contacted Mr J at the end of December to discuss the work needed 
including the erection of scaffolding, it accepted that Mr J wasnt properly and fully advised 
that trace and access was required before any further works were carried out and it offered 
£200 in compensation for this.
I see that an engineers report was commissioned by Mr Js buildings insurers in January 
2022. It noted poor design of the external drainage pipe configuration. The engineers had 
attempted to conduct a CCTV survey from the bathroom soil vent pipe but were unable to 
pass a bend. It then used specialist equipment to try to clear the blockage however this 
failed. It then created access into the external part of the soil vent pipe from a bedroom 
window and discovered that the blockage was in the external pipework. A large amount of 
wet wipes were then removed from the external access and flushed clear. Mr Js neighbour 
advised of further leaking during the eventual unblocking. The engineer considered that this was due to the amount of pressure being put on the pipework as it was backed up for six 
metres. It then carried out dye and flush tests to check for any leakage from the pipework 
and said they would return if any traces of the purple dye appeared. Ive seen no evidence of 
a subsequent report of dye traces appearing.
The expert report concluded that The Drainage blockage has been caused by the amount of 
wipes expelled into the WC, which is classed as misuse of the system. The poor installation 
of the external above ground Soil Vent pipework (and possibly internal pipework) has also 
contributed to the blockage, due to the pipe configuration the line will potential block again. 
The Soil Vent Pipe is also old cast iron in poor condition and the policy holder may wish to 
consider having this replaced in full in the near future.
Mr J thought that; Vigorous plunging in a toilet can cause damage to drains and cause water 
leaks, this is a known fact. There was no water leak from my drainage system into my 
neighbours property prior to the plunging from the Lanes technician. In fact, the drainage 
system is a sealed unit so there would be no leaks from my drainage even with a partial 
blockage further down the line, and there never has been any leaks from my drains. If the 
technician has damaged something internally to the drain to allow water to leak then this 
would seem a likely cause. Unfortunately for Mr J the available expert evidence from the 
separate buildings insurer doesnt support this theory. It states that the likely cause of the 
leak was due to the amount of pressure being put on the pipework as it was backed up for 
six metres. I consider that theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that Amtrust caused 
internal damage to pipework. As no further leaks have been reported to have appeared 
following the un-blocking, there is no evidence of an on-going leak. This fits in with the 
explanation that the leak to the downstairs property was due to the build-up of pressure as 
opposed to damage caused to the pipework by Amtrust.
I appreciate the considerable frustration and inconvenience which Mr J has suffered, firstly 
as a result of the blockage, and then as a result of the attempts which both Amtrust and his 
buildings insurer made to resolve the blockage at Mr Js property. I also appreciate that it 
took a considerable period for the issue to be traced and then resolved. Further I appreciate 
that the leak caused to his neighbours property will have caused both stress and financial 
outlay for Mr J. I cannot however say that this is due to Amtrusts emergency intervention.
I have no reason to doubt that the leak emerged or increased when the Amtrust engineer 
attempted to resolve the issue with an industrial plunger. I consider however that the leading 
and predominant cause of damage was the blockage itself and the resultant amount of 
pressure within the pipework. Its likely that the blockage and leak would be more noticeable 
during attempts to unblock it. As for an expectation that Amtrust should have carried out a 
CCTV survey before attempting to clear the blockage in the way that it did, such a survey 
was later attempted, however due to the pipework configuration this wasnt successful. I 
cant therefore say that Amtrust acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner by moving 
directly to using a plunger. Further leaking occurred again during the eventual unblocking. 
Unfortunately for Mr J the process of unblocking was likely to exacerbate the leak whatever 
means were used. In conclusion and unfortunately for Mr J, I cant say that Amtrusts effort 
to resolve the emergency through industrial plunging was negligent. Having considered all of 
the above evidence, on the balance of probabilities, I cant say that Amtrust has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
As to the delays and poor communication, Amtrust has recognised that the timescales 
involved and lack of communication at the relevant stage were unreasonable, and I agree. 
The question for me to then determine is whether the £200 offered by Amtrust to 
compensate Mr J for this is fair and reasonable. This service has certain guidelines as to 
what it expects insurers to do to compensate policyholders in such circumstances. Having 
considered all the available evidence, I cant say that Amtrusts offer is unreasonable. The offer is within the range of compensation we expect for the degree of distress and 
inconvenience caused for delays in communication over this sort of period.
I appreciate that Mr J has been through a difficult experience and that this final decision will 
come as a disappointment to Mr J, however I cant say that Amtrust has acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in declining Mr Js claim and in recognising certain failures by offering 
£200 as compensation for delays and poor communication.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Js complaint and I dont require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman