DRN-4394489
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account and took too long to return funds held 
in the account back to him. Hes also unhappy about the way Revolut handled things. He 
says this caused him financial losses and upset. He wants Revolut to pay him 
compensation. 
What happened
In December 2020, Revolut carried out a review of Mr Cs account. As part of its review, 
Revolut asked Mr C to provide information about the source of funds in his account and his 
income, via its in app chat facility. 
In response, Mr C sent Revolut an email with copies of his wage slips to show the origins of 
the payments that were being made into his account.
 
In January 2021, Mr C contacted Revolut again via its in app chat to complain about the 
review. Revolut told Mr C that it hadnt received the information he had sent them. Mr C 
explained to Revolut that he had complied with their requests for information and sent 
everything to them on 4 January 2021. He told Revolut he wanted to make a complaint and 
close his account. And that hed removed all of his funds from his account.
However, Revolut didnt tell Mr C about its complaints process or close his account. And it 
asked Mr C to resend the information so that it could review the documents. Mr C explained 
that he was having trouble loading the documents in the correct format so wasnt willing to 
resend the documents. Revolut looked again and on 29 January 2021, told Mr C that it had 
received the information hed sent to them.
In early February 2021 Revolut told Mr C that it had reviewed the documents he had 
submitted but it wanted a bit more information regarding his income and account statement.  
Revolut told Mr C that it would then be able to complete its review without any further delay. 
On 27 February 2021, Revolut asked Mr C for more information regarding a refund of £1,000 
that had been paid into Mr Cs account in October 2020. Mr C didnt respond to Revoluts 
request for information about the refund. So, Revolut blocked his account. Following this, on 
10 May 2021, a credit of £60 was paid into Mr Cs account. But due to the block Mr C wasnt 
able to access these funds. 
On 3 June 2021, Revolut told Mr C that it didnt need the information it had requested on 27 
February 2021 and to disregard all of its previous requests. Revolut said it had reviewed all 
the documents Mr C had provided and competed its review. And said it had unblocked 
Mr Cs account. However, when Mr C tried to access his account, it was still blocked. Mr Cs 
account was unblocked on 4 June 2021. 
Mr C complained to Revolut. It said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had decided to 
block his account. But it accepted that the review of Mr Cs account had taken longer than it 
should have due to backlogs it was experiencing. Revolut also acknowledged that it should 
have helped Mr C set up a complaint properly when Mr C had contacted them in January 
2021.  
Revolut apologised to Mr C for the service it had provided and the delays. It offered him £50 
compensation. It also refunded him two years of annual fees amounting to £144. Mr C 
wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to our service. He said the 
amount of compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble, upset and 
financial losses he suffered.
Mr C says the block to his account was inconvenient and he had to go to the trouble of 
providing Revolut with information about the source of funds paid into his account twice. 
Hes told us that he had to constantly chase Revolut via its in app chat, trying to find out 
what was happening with his account, which was very frustrating, time consuming and  
Revolut didnt acknowledge his complaint. Mr C also said because of the block on his 
account he lost out on profits and had to go to the trouble of opening another account so that 
he could receive his salary, which he usually received from overseas. So, he wants Revolut 
to pay him compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Revolut hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had blocked Mr Cs account. She said that Mr C hadnt provided the 
information Revolut requested at the time, so hed contributed to how long things took. She 
didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C disagreed and said Revolut hadnt treated him fairly. He said he gave Revolut the 
information it wanted and the time it took Revolut to complete its review was far too long 
which caused him a lot of trouble, upset and financial losses. So, he wants more 
compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said the following:
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Revolut has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Cs account also permit Revolut to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Mr C says he was using his account to receive his salary, which came from different 
sources. And he was paying his bills from the account. I also accept that he had to go to the 
trouble of collating and submitting information that Revolut requested about him and the 
source of his funds. So, I can understand why he found this whole experience with Revolut 
frustrating and upsetting.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Revolut to block Mr Cs account. Revolut has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. And Im satisfied that in doing so Revolut were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, whilst 
I appreciate Mr C was inconvenienced when his account was blocked, I cant say Revolut 
treated Mr C unfairly when it decided to restrict his account.
Mr Cs account was restricted from December 2020 until June 2021. I can see from the in 
app chat that Mr C chased Revolut repeatedly to try and find out what was happening with his account, which would have been time consuming and frustrating. I note too that Revolut 
incorrectly told Mr C on 3 June 2021 that his account was fully operational when it wasnt. 
This meant he had to wait a further day to gain access to his account.
Revolut has accepted it didnt do things as quickly as it should have due to experiencing 
backlogs at the time. But its also argued that Mr C contributed to the delays as he didnt 
respond to its requests sometimes for weeks at a time. Ive taken this into account, and from 
looking at the timeline of the in app chat I agree that there were periods when Mr C didnt 
respond to Revolut. This amounted to around six weeks in total. But overall Mr C wasnt able 
to access his account for around six months, which I consider to be a long time. 
Mr C has maintained that he provided all the paperwork Revolut requested. And that he had 
to do this twice because Revolut said it hadnt received anything from him. He says he did 
this in December 2020 and early January 2021. Mr C can no longer provide any evidence to 
show he did this. But Ive looked at the in app chat screen shots between Revolut and Mr C 
at the time and I can see that on 5 February 2021 Revolut acknowledged it had actually 
received documents from Mr C and was reviewing everything. This was despite telling him 
on 29 January 2021 it hadnt received anything from him. Its not clear to me why Revolut 
couldnt locate the information Mr C had sent in but based on this I think its likely Mr C had 
submitted the paperwork when requested and went to the trouble of doing so twice. 
I can also see that Mr C also sent Revolut an email to raise a formal complaint about the 
block on his account. I cant see that this was acknowledged by Revolut. I note too that Mr C 
raised this issue in the in app chat. Revolut has apologised and  accepted it didnt deal with 
this properly and should have offered him an opportunity to fill in an online complaint form as 
part of his in app chat. So, overall, Im currently satisfied that Mr C was caused trouble and 
upset. And I do think Revolut couldve provided better service to him when it reviewed his 
account.
Mr C has said that due to the block he lost out on profits of around £2,000 and couldnt 
access his salary. But he hasnt provided any evidence to show that he lost out financially. 
So, it wouldnt be fair of me to award compensation for something theres no evidence of. I 
can also see that Mr C moved his money out of the account and at the time the block was 
removed had a balance of just over £130 - £72 of which was made up of the account fee 
Revolut refunded. I note too that Mr C told Revolut  in the in app chat that he moved all his 
money out of the account. So, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr C couldnt access his 
salary.
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Revoluts 
actions have had on Mr C and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Revolut has accepted it took too long to complete its review and offered Mr C £50 
compensation. Its also offered to refund Mr C two years of annual fees which amounts to 
£144. I can see it has already paid Mr C £72 which appears to be just one years worth of 
fees.
In this case, while I appreciate Revolut are entitled to block and review Mr Cs account, 
based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think its fair to say the delays caused by Revolut 
when it reviewed Mr Cs account caused him worry and upset. I say this because Mr C had 
to spend time contacting Revolut and he had to wait six months for Revolut to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient and upsetting for him. And its 
only right that Revolut recognises this. 
I can also see that Revolut didnt give Mr C the right information about how to set up his 
complaint regarding his account and didnt unblock his account when it said it had done so, 
which I think added to his overall frustration with the situation. Because of this, I currently 
think Revolut should pay Mr C £200 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused to him. This is more than a token amount and acknowledges that Revolut could have 
done things better here. I understand that Mr C wants much more compensation. But we 
cant award compensation to punish financial businesses. Our awards are often a modest 
amount. 
Finally, Mr C says hes unhappy that he could only contact Revolut via its in app chat facility. 
And says he shouldve been able to call Revolut and speak to a person. I can appreciate that 
not being able to pick up the phone to Revolut was frustrating for Mr C. But as the 
investigator has already explained, we are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them 
how to run their businesses , or how to design or implement their processes. Revolut 
communicates with its customers via an in app chat facility- thats how it runs its business  
and we cant interfere with its commercial decisions. 
My provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint. To put things right I 
Revolut Ltd should:
Pay Mr C a total of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused him
If it hasnt already done so, refund Mr C the remaining account fee of £72
After I issued my provisional decision both parties were invited to provide further evidence or 
submissions. Both parties disagreed with what Id said in my provisional decision and 
provided more information.
In summary, Mr C said Revolut asked him about a £1,000 transaction, which was to do with 
a vehicle he was trying to buy. And not the £60 transaction hed received. He had provided 
all the information Revolut requested. And they never responded to his complaint. He 
stopped using the account from December 2020, so, Revolut should refund the account fees 
from this date. Mr C says he did contact Revolut after his account was blocked, but he no 
longer has access to the in app chat, to support this.  He doesnt accept £200 compensation, 
as this doesnt cover the costs of his phone calls and time spent chasing things with Revolut 
via its in app chat facility. He wants £500 compensation to resolve his complaint.
Revolut also disagreed with the provisional decision. In summary, it said whilst its account 
review had taken longer than usual to complete it hadnt blocked Mr Cs access to any funds 
during the review as the account didnt have a balance for much of the time. It pointed out 
that the block prevented Mr C from accessing £60 which had been paid into his account on 
10 May 2021. And that Mr C had been able to access these funds on 4 June 2021, so the 
block had only stopped Mr C accessing funds for around three weeks  and not months. 
Revolut also pointed out that at the time the £60 credited his account, Mr C was aware his 
account was blocked. And that Mr C had been extremely abusive towards Revolut staff in its 
in app chat. Revolut also said it had already refunded Mr C two years worth of account fees 
in June 2021. So overall, Revolut said the £200 compensation was excessive.Following both parties, submissions to my provisional decision, I reviewed everything afresh. 
After doing so I reached a different decision to the one set out in my first provisional 
decision, which is repeated above and forms part of this decision. I issued a second 
provisional decision in which I said the following
Ive already explained, Revolut has important legal and regulatory responsibilities they must 
meet when providing account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account and/or restrict 
its customers access to accounts and funds held within them. To fulfil these obligations 
Revolut sometimes may also need to ask customers for information. This is what happened 
here. 
Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr C was operating his account, Im 
satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with these obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Cs account. It was also entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions So, whilst I accept,  Revoluts actions caused Mr C inconvenience and frustration 
when it asked him for information and blocked his account, I cant say it did anything wrong 
and treated him unfairly in doing so.
Having looked again at all the information and considered both parties submissions, Im 
satisfied that Revolut started its review of Mr Cs account in December 2020. And started 
asking Mr C to provide information about the source of funds coming into his account. Im 
also satisfied based on what Revolut has told this service in an email dated 14 June 2021, 
that Mr Cs account was blocked from 26 February 2021 until 4 June 2021. 
Ive thought about the impact that the block had on Mr C. From looking at Mr Cs Revolut 
statements during the period the account was blocked it had a minimal balance. Ive also 
kept in mind that on 4 January 2021, Mr C told Revolut that he had removed all of his funds 
from his account.  And it wasnt until £60 was paid into Mr Cs account on 10 May 2021, that 
Mr Cs account had a balance. So, whilst I accept Mr C wasnt able to use his account whilst 
it was blocked, for the majority of the period, there was no money in the account. 
However, while Revolut are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Mr C has maintained that he provided all the 
paperwork Revolut requested. He says he did this first in December 2020 and then again in 
early January 2021 when Revolut said it hadnt received anything from him. 
I can see from looking at the in app chat on 5 February 2021 that Revolut appear to have 
found the information Mr C had submitted and told him that it was getting on with reviewing 
everything. Its not clear to me why Revolut couldnt locate the information Mr C had sent in 
but based on this I think its likely Mr C had submitted the paperwork when requested and 
went to the trouble of doing so twice. 
Revolut reached out to Mr C again on 27 February 2021, when it asked him about a £1,000 
payment in October 2020. But Mr C didnt respond. However, I note that Mr C says the 
transaction was related to a vehicle he intended to purchase which the dealer wasnt able to 
supply. Hes said that he supplied the invoice to Revolut to support his explanation. 
Following this request Mr Cs account remained blocked until 4 June 2021, which means he 
wasnt able to use his account or access the £60 that had been paid into the account in May 
2021.
Revolut hasnt offered any detailed explanation for why its review of Mr Cs account took so 
long to complete other than it was dealing with back logs. I also note that Revolut incorrectly 
told Mr C his account was unblocked on 3 June 2021. So, overall, Im satisfied Revolut has caused unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Cs funds and completing its review of Mr Cs 
account.
Revolut has accepted it should have provided M C with better service and done things 
quicker. It has also accepted it didnt handle things well when Mr C wanted to raise a 
complaint about his account being reviewed. To put things right Revolut offered Mr C £50 
compensation and refunded him £144  which was two years worth of account fees. I can 
see that Revolut has already refunded the fees on 3 June 2021 directly into Mr Cs account, 
which Mr C has withdrawn. I think this is fair and reasonable, so I wont be directing Revolut 
to refund any other account fees. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about how Revoluts actions impacted him and that he 
wants more compensation than what I set out in my provisional decision. Ive noted that 
despite being asked to provide evidence to support the impact he says Revoluts actions had 
on him, he hasnt done so. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Revolut to pay financial loss or 
compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Revoluts 
actions have had on Mr C and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays caused by Revolut when it 
reviewed Mr Cs account caused Mr C trouble and upset. And I agree some compensation is 
appropriate for this. I say this because Mr C had to spend time contacting Revolut and he 
had to wait for Revolut to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been  
inconvenient and frustrating for him. And its only right that Revolut recognises this. 
In my provisional decision I said that Revolut should pay £200 compensation, However, 
having relooked at the circumstances of this complaint, I can see that whilst Mr C didnt have 
access to his account between February and June 2021 there was a minimal balance in the 
account  only £60. Mr C had cleared down the account in January 2021. Mr C hasnt 
provided any evidence to demonstrate the impact being without these funds had on him. So, 
Im satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr C was caused. Revolut should pay Mr C 8% interest on his account balance from 
10 May 2021 until 4 June 2021 for loss of use of these funds. 
After I issued my second provisional decision both parties were invited to provide further 
evidence or submissions. Revolut agreed with my provisional decision. Mr C didnt agree 
and provided more information. In summary he said:
He had to spend time trying to get his account unblocked, providing information to 
Revolut and setting up a new account which took him away from his business. So, he 
should be compensated at his hourly rate.
He provided Revolut with all the information it requested, but Revolut continued to 
block his account.
Revolut have lied about not receiving information it provided and had no reason to 
block his account.
The ombudsman is biased and simply believed what Revolut have said about 
blocking his account.
He hasnt received a refund of his account fees.
The amount held in his account is immaterial at the time it was blocked as the block was unreasonable.
Revolut should be punished otherwise it will never change.
He wants more compensation for the amount of trouble and upset Revoluts actions 
has caused him.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr C has raised a number of concerns, which Ill now 
address below.
Firstly, Mr C has said he is concerned that the ombudsman service is biased because Ive 
have only partly upheld his complaint with the implication being that Revolut is influencing 
our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman 
service our approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own 
independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If 
Mr C does not agree with our view, he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept 
this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by other means should 
he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about doing that.
I appreciate Mr C feels Revolut could have done things quicker. Hes also said that he did 
provide them with the information it requested on more than one occasion. I agree with Mr C 
on these points and that is why I have partly upheld his complaint. And awarded him 
compensation including interest for loss of use of his account balance.
Mr C says he did everything Revolut requested and Revolut lied about not receiving the 
documents he submitted and havent been truthful with this service. This is a serious 
allegation. Weve asked Revolut to set out its rationale for blocking Mr Cs account and its 
review process, and I would expect it to set out for our service the full details of all of its 
interactions with Mr C when asked to do so. And the events which led to the block of his 
account. Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest it hasnt done so. And I dont think, 
as Mr C seems to fear, that there is anyone within Revolut who is deliberately misleading or 
withholding information from this service. 
Mr C says he hasnt received a refund of his account fees  which amounts to £144. Ive 
looked at Mr Cs account statements and I can see that this was refunded. And that Mr C 
withdrew the funds. So, Id suggest Mr C reviews his account statements.
Mr C says the compensation awarded isnt enough.  He says he should be compensated 
based on his hourly rate. And he has submitted an invoice as an example to show his hourly 
rate. He is seeking £,1,400 compensation. I should explain that when we award 
compensation, we dont usually award compensation on the basis of a complainants 
business or professional hourly rate. I havent seen any evidence that Mr C was acting in his 
professional capacity when contacting Revolut. Mr C also hasnt provided any evidence that 
contacting Revolut meant he lost out on income. So, I dont think based on the evidence 
Mr C suffered a financial loss. Mr C has asked to be compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to be 
resolved. But Id need to be satisfied that hes lost out and been caused inconvenience by 
not having his complaint resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. 
Therefore, I wont be awarding any compensation. I should also explain that our awards are 
designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something 
a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we 
award compensation as a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their 
complaint to this service. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr C was caused. So, I wont be asking Revolut to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
In conclusion, whilst I take on board Mr Cs comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings, which are repeated above and form part of this decision. My final 
decision therefore remains that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Revolut to settle the 
complaint as detailed below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold M Cs complaint 
against Revolut Ltd.
To put things right,  Revolut Ltd should do the following:
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review of his account
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest per year for the sum in Mr Cs account between 10 May 
and 4 June 2021.
HM Revenue & Customs require Revolut Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. Revolut should give Mr C a certificate showing how much is taken 
off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman