DRN-2727652
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) sent her statements to 
the wrong address. 
What happened
Mrs S had six accounts with Halifax. She moved to a new house in 2017 and advised Halifax 
of her new address. Halifax sent six statements and two letters relating to one of her 
accounts to her old address. 
Mrs S complained  she had advised Halifax of her change of address in early 2017. Two 
letters dated July 2018 were sent to her old address. She visited Halifax branch twice to 
resolve this, but after that, seven statements were still sent to her old address  between 
June 2019 and June 2020. She said this was a breach of her data, and had caused severe 
distress and inconvenience, particularly as she was not on good terms with the residents at 
her old address. She had to travel to pick up the correspondence  this took time and it cost 
money. She also said that her complaint wasnt dealt with effectively by Halifax  they took 
too long to deal with her complaint and didnt regularly tell her what was happening. This 
also increased her anxiety.
Halifax apologised. They admitted theyd not changed the address on Mrs S account profile 
correctly. They paid compensation of £857  made up of £107 of travel expenses, £500 for 
the data breach and £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs S felt that the compensation paid by Halifax wasnt enough for what had happened and 
brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said he thought that Halifaxs 
compensation was OK. Setting aside the reimbursement of travel expenses, he said that 
£750 was in line with what the service would expect to see in those circumstances.
Mrs S asked that an ombudsman looked at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mrs S is coming from. She moved house and let Halifax know her new 
address. But one account wasnt changed and so two letters and seven statements were 
sent to Mrs S old address between July 2018 and June 2019. She visited the Halifax branch 
twice about this. On the first time she was told everything was ok. And on the second time, 
they said theyd changed the address for the account in question  but they hadnt. This was 
embarrassing and distressing for Mrs S  as she wasnt on good terms with the other 
residents. And she needed to make special journeys to pick up the correspondence. She 
said Halifax had breached her data  and that Halifax didnt handle her complaint very well  
they didnt keep her updated and they took too long to deal with what happened.
Looking at how Halifax dealt with Mrs S complaint. This service is governed by strict rules 
about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being about a financial product 
or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint handling or processes 
arent included. Mrs S concerns about Halifaxs response here are specifically about how 
they handled a complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of her complaint isnt one we can 
look at.
But - Halifax apologised for their errors and paid compensation of £857, of which £107 was 
for travel expenses, £500 for the data breach and £250 for distress and inconvenience. Mrs 
S accepted the travel expenses as being correct but argued strongly that the other amounts 
werent enough  she said the distress and embarrassment caused was very high. 
So  this complaint comes down to whether Halifax paid enough compensation. I think they 
did. 
I have no doubt that what happened was very frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs S. But  
she hasnt brought forward any evidence of material cost or damage caused as a result of 
Halifaxs errors. For example, her data wasnt used for any purpose such as identity theft  
where she couldve suffered a real cost. The effect of what happened was really distress and 
inconvenience  and while Im sure this was significant for Mrs S, this service is guided by 
broad indicators of what should be paid for such an event. And here, what Halifax paid was 
of the order wed expect to see. 
I can appreciate that Mrs S feels strongly about what happened. She believes she should 
get a lot more. But  and I know she will be disappointed by my decision  I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anymore here.
  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman