DRN-3103208
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in September 
1992 alongside a mortgage. The PPI was paid for by way of a monthly premium and was 
free for the first 12 months. Initially the premium cost £15.91 a month and wouldve provided 
a monthly benefit of £262.68 in the event of unemployment, sickness or disability. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if necessary. 
Dr L says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Dr L didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Dr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Dr L, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it 
clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Dr Ls agreement to take it out. Dr L 
says the PPI wasnt properly explained to her and she wasnt made aware it was an 
optional and separate product. 
Nationwide cant provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. So, Ive considered Dr Ls comments alongside what we know in 
general about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. And based on what I know about how Nationwide sold PPI I wouldve expected 
there to have been conversations with Nationwide about the PPI and paperwork wouldve 
had to be completed to confirm the level of cover and to set up the policy. 
Following these discussions, it seems Dr L wouldve been given paperwork about her 
mortgage and any insurance taken, such as the insurance schedule. Nationwide has 
provided a sample copy of the schedule and insurance renewal notice agreement that 
would be similar to the one Dr L wouldve been given. This outlines the monthly the cost of 
the insurance. I wouldve expected Dr L to query any of this paperwork if she wasnt sure 
about the PPI it and didnt want it.
So, taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was 
presented as optional, although I can understand why Dr L may not remember this as it was 
so long ago.
Nationwide didnt provide Dr L with advice to take out the PPI policy. This means it shouldve 
given her clear information about the policy so that she could make a proper choice about 
whether to take it out.
I dont know what steps Nationwide took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve 
changed Dr Ls decision. I think shed still have bought it and Ill explain why.
From what I can see it seems Dr L was eligible for the PPI as she met the basic 
requirements of the policy.
Looking at Dr Ls circumstances at the time of sale she wouldnt have been affected by
any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment
arrangements. So, there was nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed 
needed to.
Dr L says she wouldnt have received any employee benefits at the time. This PPI policy 
wouldve paid out if Dr L was off work due to accident or sickness. It also would have 
provided cover if she was made redundant. So, it seems Dr L wouldve benefited from the 
cover provided by the policy. 
Dr L was a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on her home. 
So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been serious for her. And I 
think having the security that the repayments wouldve been made if Dr L was unable to 
work or unwell wouldve been important to her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Dr L. The policys premiums were paid 
monthly, so she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs. I can see that Dr L has 
received a refund of premiums for the period she became a full-time student. Dr L has asked 
for Nationwide to consider refunding premiums for the period before this too, as she was 
working part time. Nationwide has not offered to do this as Dr L was still working and 
couldve benefited from the policy. Looking at Drs Ls circumstances this seems to be a fair 
approach, and its offer to refund part of the premiums is sufficient. 
Ive thought about everything Dr L has said, including her comments about family helping her 
if she needed it. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of Dr Ls family to help. 
But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that assistance would have been 
available to her as and when she needed it. Ive also considered her comments about having 
savings, which she says shows she didnt need the PPI. However, the PPI wouldve allowed 
Dr L to preserve these savings. In addition, as Dr L wasnt given advice by Nationwide, it 
wouldve been for her to decide whether she wanted the PPI in light of any existing 
provisions she had. 
Based on everything Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when selling Dr L 
this PPI policy. I know this will be disappointing for Dr L, but I hope my decision clearly sets 
out my reasons.
As our adjudicator outlined Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Dr L 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Dr L about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Dr L, that was unfair. To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Dr L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Dr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman