DRN-4102385
The complaint
C, a limited company, has complained about Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) decision to 
decline a claim made under their Retail and Salons packaged commercial insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 C discovered the window of the shop it leases had been accidentally 
damaged, so it made a claim to Covea, its Retail and Salons packaged commercial 
insurance provider.
Covea declined the claim. They said C wasnt legally responsible for the window as the 
lease didnt say C needed to insure it, so they said there was no cover under Cs policy.
As C remained unhappy, it approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that Cs lease 
required it to repair and maintain the windows, so she was persuaded C was responsible for 
repairing any damage. As the policy provided cover for damage to shop fronts where the 
policyholder was responsible for repairing damage, she said Covea should cover the claim.
Covea didnt agree. They said that the repair and maintenance part of the lease required C 
to repair and maintain the shop front, but it didnt require C to insure it. Covea maintained 
there was no policy cover.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. 
Cs insurance policy with Covea provides up to £10,000 cover for damage caused to shop 
fronts:
Shop Front
We will pay You for Damage to the Shop Front and fixed glass at the Premises not 
owned by You or insured elsewhere in this policy including necessarily incurred 
additional costs involved in:
(a) boarding up or temporary glazing pending replacement of broken glass
(b) removing or refixing window fittings and other obstacles to replacement
provided that You are legally responsible for the repair of such Damage.
Our liability will not exceed £10,000 in any one Period of Insurance.
The policy defines shop fronts as:
Shop Fronts
The front of the Buildings for which You are legally responsible as occupier 
and not as owner including all fixed glass, lettering or designs superimposed 
on glass, blinds, shutters and fitments.
And defines Damage as:
Damage
Loss or destruction unless otherwise excluded.
Covea accepts damage has been caused, and to a shop front, which is potentially an 
insured event. However, they say that Cs lease doesnt require it to insure the glass 
specifically and therefore the cover for Shop Fronts doesnt apply.
However, for cover to apply, the terms and conditions require C to be legally responsible for 
the repairing of damage. They dont outline that C needs to be legally responsible for 
insuring the shop front specifically in a lease. 
Cs lease explains that C is the Lessee. And the lease confirms:
32. Specific repairing liability 
32.1 The Lessee shall repair and at all times throughout the Term keep in good and 
substantial repair

32.1.2 all windows and window frames shop fronts fascias entrance doors and steps 
of the Premises fronting or abutting on (location) or the (location) and forming part of 
the premises
So, this shows C has a responsibility to maintain and repair the windows, so I think this 
makes them responsible for the shop front glass when it needs repair. And that is the 
requirement for the Shop Front cover under the policy to apply  not for the lease to outline 
specific insuring responsibility. Covea has said that this is a general maintenance clause in the lease, and that isnt relevant 
to insuring responsibility. However, the lease says C is responsible where it needs repair, 
not just general maintenance. The window was damaged, and it needed repair, and Im 
satisfied the lease outlines C is responsible for that.
With this in mind, Im not persuaded Covea has acted fairly or reasonably by declining the 
claim based on the lease not outlining Cs insuring responsibility specifically. Consequently, 
Im directing Covea to deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
For any cash settlement due under the claim, in line with our usual approach, Covea should 
also add 8% simple interest from one month from when the claim was made to date of 
settlement. This takes into account that Covea would always have needed time to consider 
the claim after it was made.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to:
Deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Add 8% simple interest* to any cash settlement payment from one month after the 
claim was made to date of settlement
*If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell C how much its taken off. It should also give C a 
tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman