DRN-1957554
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has removed its 
overdraft facility despite saying that it was renewed.
What happened
The director of F spoke with NatWest on 15 May 2019 about the overdraft. He received 
confirmation that it would be renewed for another year. But he was told on 11 July 2019 that 
this was an error. He complained and F was paid £100 in compensation and received a 
refund of charges of £300. Formal demand was made in November 2019 and the overdraft 
was removed from December 2019 and the account passed to recoveries.
Our investigator did not recommend that NatWest do more than it has already done. She 
said that although NatWest had tried to contact F it had not been able to speak with the 
director until July 2019. So, F had not been affected until then. The overdraft was payable on 
demand and NatWest could review the position at any time even if the error had not been 
made here. And F was able to use the account until the end of 2019. The account had not 
been closed while there was still an overdraft balance outstanding. NatWest had said that F 
had not raised an issue about its address on its complaint form to this service, but the 
director had been in contact about problems with that for a different company. So, we 
wouldnt be looking further now at the address issues raised by F. She thought that NatWest 
had done sufficient to resolve the points considered in this complaint.
F did not agree. The director said that he did not think we had the complete picture and that 
the complaint was an overall one. Post had been returned undelivered for F and he had 
received text messages about this. But when he had called this was not corrected. He had 
made plans to operate the business of F with the agreed overdraft to meet cashflow needs. 
He had never asked for compensation for F but wanted the overdraft reinstated. Now that 
the account is in recoveries it might as well be closed as F cannot trade  only pay in credits 
to reduce the borrowing. NatWest has not acted fairly, and F is considering taking legal 
action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has confirmed that the resolution it wants is for the overdraft to be reinstated so it can 
trade. Im afraid thats not something Im going to be requiring NatWest to do here. Whether 
or not to provide borrowing facilities and an active account is a matter for the commercial 
discretion of NatWest and not something wed generally interfere with.
Clearly NatWest made an error. Ive listened to the call the director had about the overdraft 
renewal. And while NatWest raised some issues about the lack of fluctuation of the level of 
borrowing as the overdraft balance was normally close to the limit and about returned items 
it said that this would be something for the next review. It had the impression F was going to 
be crediting money to the account and said this would be helpful over the next four months. 
NatWest said it would not be able to increase the overdraft but that the current limit of 
£10,000 would remain.
The position was though that the overdraft in fact stayed in place for the rest of the year. The 
balance remained at around the limit. NatWest decided not to allow it to continue after that 
and made formal demand and then removed the limit and transferred the balance to 
recoveries. I agree with the director that at this point F couldnt trade through the account  
the focus of NatWest was on recovering the money. But it did have a period before then and 
I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to have then decided to remove the overdraft.
The only clear reference Ive seen that NatWest has made to issues with the address used 
for F was when in a response in October 2019 it said that it had been using the address for F 
that it gave on 19 February 2019. F clearly found out that the overdraft was not renewed and 
discussed this with NatWest. I havent seen evidence about further issues and NatWest has 
said it has not looked into them. But I dont think given my findings above that this could 
affect my conclusions about the overdraft itself. F can raise any other complaint points with 
NatWest about wrongly sent mail.
My understanding is that the refund of £300 related to additional charges applying when the 
account was operating with an unauthorised overdraft. And I think that the compensation of 
£100 for F is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience it was caused. But I dont see a basis 
to require NatWest to do more than this. I appreciate how disappointed the director will be. 
He remains free to pursue this matter through legal action subject to any relevant time limits 
if F does not accept my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman