DRN-1466066
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mrs A says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mrs A completed at the time. I 
can see that PPI was selected with a printed X. Halifax said Mrs A agreed to the 
policy after a discussion with the representative. Ive noted that to get the cover Mrs 
A had to tick another box in a different form and sign for the PPI. The signature for 
the PPI was separate to the signature required to get the credit. So I think that Mrs A 
chose to take the cover and ought to have understood that she had a choice about 
taking the policy. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as whilst her initial sick pay was generous, after six months it 
dropped significantly and Mrs A told us she had little in the way of savings to rely on 
in that circumstance. And this policy couldve covered 10% of her monthly balance 
for up to 12 months. So as it wouldve paid in addition to, and potentially for longer 
than, any other pay she may have received, I think she couldve found this cover 
useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons, given above, that I think the policy was 
suitable, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mrs A paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman