DRN-3967515
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy Global Currency Exchange Network Ltd (GCEN), wont reimburse her for 
the money she lost when she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) rental 
accommodation scam. 
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. Based on the submission of both parties, I understand them to be as 
follows.
In summary, on 16 September 2022, Ms P  through GCEN  transferred €1,415.66 for what 
she believed was genuine accommodation abroad in a country where Ms P was residing. 
Ms P says she had found the accommodation on a well-known rental accommodation 
website.
Unfortunately it was a scam and fraudsters had imitated the genuine accommodation 
website. So the property didnt exist, and Ms P had in fact paid money to a fraudster.
Ms P after discovering she had been the victim of a scam, contacted GCEN to report the 
matter and to see if it could recover her funds. And Ms P had concerns that GCEN didnt do 
enough to assist her at this time.
Ultimately GCEN advised that it had issued a payment recall but it had been unsuccessful. It 
also advised that it was unable to provide reimbursement as Ms P had authorised the 
payment and it followed its legal obligation to process the payment. 
Unhappy that her funds were unable to be recovered, and that she wasnt reimbursed for the 
funds she had lost, and dissatisfied with the service she had received, Ms P referred the 
matter to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
didnt think GCEN ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent 
in the circumstances or have a cause for concern that Ms P was at risk of financial harm or 
was falling victim to a scam. So they didnt think GCEN needed to step and in intervene in 
the payment. 
They also considered that GCEN had attempted to recover the funds but ultimately the funds 
had already been moved on / withdrawn before Ms P reported the matter. So despite any 
failings by GCEN  it wouldnt have made a difference to the recovery attempt as the funds 
had already been moved on.
  
Ms P disagreed with the investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
GCEN should have done more to prevent Ms Ps losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint. I know this outcome will disappoint 
Ms P. She was the innocent victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam and did everything she 
could to try and recover her funds, but Ill explain my reasoning why I have reached this 
decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a money transfer / payment service 
provider (in this case, GCEN) is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it 
to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
It is the case that Ms P authorised the payment in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Ms P is responsible for the payment. That remains the case even 
though Ms P was the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam.
There are times when, dependent on the payment that I might expect a payment service 
provider to question a transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly 
authorised. Broadly speaking, firms (like GCEN) have certain obligations to protect 
customers from fraud. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether GCEN acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms P when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. And in doing so, it is important to take into consideration the 
purpose that customers use payment service providers such as GCEN for. The primary 
purpose is to send payments, often in a particular currency, abroad. Payments can be for a 
range of reasons and can also range from one-off low amounts, consistent amounts weekly / 
monthly, to larger one-off payments.When Ms P used GCEN to make a payment in euros, I cant fairly say that there was 
anything unusual or remarkable about the payment, or the amount, that reasonably ought to 
have alerted GCEN to the possibility Ms P was potentially at risk of financial harm, where I 
would expect GCEN to have concerns and step in and question Ms P further about the 
payments. So I dont consider GCEN acted unfairly by not flagging Ms Ps payment for 
further questioning.
GCENs attempt to recover the funds
I appreciate Ms P feels very strongly that GCEN didnt do enough here. Ms P considers the 
delays (due to a bank holiday within the UK and a national holiday for its banking partner on 
21 September 2022) meant GCEN and its banking partner didnt act soon enough and didnt 
have 24/7 fraud reporting practices in place. Ms Ps comments and thoughts here are valid, 
however, GCEN was limited in what it could do. It could only contact the receiving firm (the 
firm where Ms P had paid the funds to) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. 
And it could only do that once it had been made aware by Ms P. Ms P informed GCEN on 
20 September 2022.
But crucially, and what is important in this case, is that Ms P wasnt aware she had been the 
victim of a scam straight away  sadly only becoming aware on 20 September 2022. And the 
evidence that has been obtained by the investigator from the Receiving Firm shows that the 
funds had unfortunately already been moved on / withdrawn by the fraudster before Ms P 
had reported the fraud to GCEN. So whether or not GCEN and its banking partner could 
have acted sooner than it did (and there is an argument to say it potentially could have had 
better measures in place here as pointed out by Ms P), sadly doesnt change the fact that no 
funds would have been able to have been recovered in any event. Ultimately even if prompt 
action by GCEN and its banking partner occurred when Ms P reported the matter, the funds 
had already been moved on / withdrawn by the fraudsters. Unfortunately it is common for 
fraudsters to move on / withdraw the money quickly to avoid the risk of the account and the 
funds getting blocked if reported by a consumer. Although I realise this wont be of any 
consolation to Ms P.
Ms Ps comments that GCEN should have insurance to cover instances like this
I note Ms P has advised that businesses should have insurance to cover consumers for this 
type of loss. I understand the point Ms P is making here. Financial businesses often do have 
insurance in place  and it may be willing to refund a consumer whereby it considers its 
actions have directly caused the loss. So for example where Ms P gave the correct 
beneficiary details  and a financial business subsequently inputted them incorrectly causing 
the payment to go to an incorrect beneficiary. In that instance a financial business, if it was 
unable to recover the funds, may consider itself liable as its error resulted in the loss and it 
may consider refunding its consumer (whether through any potential insurance it held or 
not).
However in this case, GCEN carried out the instructions Ms P gave it  by routing the 
payment to the beneficiary details it was provided with. So it didnt consider it was liable as it 
hadnt made any errors in processing the payment Ms P had requested.The level of service Ms P received
Ms P was unhappy with the service she received. Having reviewed this aspect, I agree with 
our investigator. GCEN processed the payment and then once notified, it tried to recall the 
funds but was ultimately unsuccessful. It advised Ms P of this, and it communicated this to 
Ms P promptly. It also issued its final response in a timely matter which explained the next 
steps Ms P could take if she remained unhappy. On the whole I find the level of service 
provided by GCEN to have been reasonable and it advised Ms P of what it could do in 
regard to the payment and its outcome on whether it would reimburse her. So I dont 
consider an award for distress and inconvenience is merited in this case. 
That said, GCEN offered Ms P £250 on 4 November 2022. It is up to Ms P as to whether she 
wishes to accept this. Ms P should let our Investigator know if she wishes to accept its offer 
or she can contact GCEN directly.
Summary
Im very sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms P. She sent her money in good faith and did 
not receive anything in return for it. And she reported the matter as soon as she became 
aware she had fallen victim to a scam in order to try and recover those funds. But overall, 
while I appreciate Ms Ps been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think GCENs decision not 
to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because it followed Ms Ps instructions to make the payment and I havent seen any reason 
why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do 
anything to help Ms P further as the funds had ultimately been moved on already by the 
fraudster before Ms P had reported the scam to GCEN.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman