DRN-3004222
The complaint
Mr Es complaint arises from a claim made under the mobile phone insurance cover 
underwritten by American International Group UK Limited (AIG) provided as part of a 
package of benefits with his bank account. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr E made a claim under the policy as his phone was damaged. Mr E was 
told the claim would be covered and he paid the £100 policy excess. However, AIG then said 
it would not be able to repair the phone and offered Mr E a replacement. AIG could not offer 
the same make phone, so offered an alternative which Mr E initially accepted. However, the 
next day he contacted AIG again as he had found a company that would be able to repair his 
phone. AIG said it would not pay for a third party to repair the phone but offered £1,000 cash 
settlement. 
Mr E purchased his phone in 2016 for £4,200 (which included a 30% discount, so the retail 
value was originally £6,000). It is an unusual, high value phone, made using rare materials 
for a phone and he wanted it repaired, so Mr E arranged for the phone to be repaired 
himself, which cost him £1,594.80. Mr E told AIG he would accept the £1,000 cash 
settlement and pay the balance of the repair costs himself. However, AIG told him that if it 
paid him a cash settlement, it would be entitled to take possession of his phone. 
Mr E is very unhappy with this, he is considerably out of pocket as he had to buy a 
temporary replacement phone to use while his was unrepaired, has had to pay the repair 
costs himself and AIG has still kept his excess payment, even though his claim has not been 
met.  Mr E has also said that one of AIGs agents was rude during a phone call about the 
claim. 
AIG says the policy only covers repairs carried out by its own authorised repairers and it 
would not reimburse repair costs of third parties. It does not agree to pay any costs 
therefore. AIG does however accept that the call Mr E referred to was not conducted as it 
should have been and offered £25 compensation for this. AIG said it had also found a 
second-hand model of the insured phone for £1,000, so its offer was reasonable. 
Two of our investigators looked into the matter. The first did not recommend the complaint 
be upheld but the second said the repair costs should be covered, together with interest,  
and that AIG should also pay £150 compensation for the trouble caused to Mr E. 
Mr E accepts the investigators assessment but AIG doesnt. 
AIG has made a number of points in response to the investigator, which Ive summarised 
below: 
The investigator has misinterpreted the policy terms, which do not provide for repair 
or replacement of a damaged phone. When it took over these policies it introduced a 
repair option which was communicated to customers: New repair options: depending 
on your location and the type of damage, you may be able to choose to have your 
phone repaired at a local walk-in repair agent or by a technician coming to you (a £50 
excess will apply when your phone is repaired). This makes clear that the ability to 
obtain a repair is dependent on the customer location and the type of damage. It also 
explains that they may be able to choose to have their phone repaired at a local 
walk-in agent or by a technician coming to them. 
Therefore the cover provides for a replacement but it can offer a repair, on occasion 
where available but there is no promise to repair. There was no available repair 
option for Mr Es phone at the relevant time, so it is unreasonable to expect it to 
reimburse his costs. 
In any case, the policy doesnt provide for reimbursement of third party repair costs
The policy also provides that any replacement should be based on the technical
specifications of the handsets and not the make / model or operating system. The 
insured phone was five years old and the replacement it offered  being one of the 
newest to the market  was far higher technical specification than the original 
handset. This is betterment and so it does not understand how it can be concluded 
that it has not fulfilled its obligation under the policy to provide a phone of similar 
technical specifications? 
The policy doesnt provide for a cash settlement but it offered £1,000 cash settlement 
in an attempt to resolve the claim. A handset of the make and model it offered as a 
replacement can be purchased for a lot less than the £1,000 offered (it provided 
adverts for refurbished from £750 - £892). 
It has also found two adverts for the insured phone for sale for £1,000 (one outside 
the U.K. and one within) but did not keep a copy of these and has not provided 
evidence of those adverts.
The excess was rightly requested when it first accepted the claim. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es policy says:
If, during the period of cover, your phone is damaged or suffers a breakdown due to an 
internal fault which occurs after the manufacturers warranty has expired, we will either 
provide you with a replacement phone or will arrange for your phone to be repaired, (if the 
repair option is available). This will be discussed with you when you make your claim.
If we replace your phone, we will provide you with a refurbished model. Refurbished 
replacement phones will have genuine manufacturer parts and be in an as new` / Grade A 
condition. The replacement phone comes with a 12-month warranty
If your phone is being replaced  will try to provide you with the same make and model of 
phone, although it may be a different colour. In the unlikely event that [our]  suppliers do 
not have your phone in stock, [we]  will offer you an alternative phone. This will be at least 
the equivalent technical specification of your phone but may be a different make, model or 
operating system or have different features and functions.
AIG says the above terms do not mean that the policy promises a repair of a damaged 
insured phone. It only will repair a phone where a repair option is available and none was 
available for Mr Es phone. AIG also points to the notice of new repair option to suggest it will 
only be repaired in the event there is a walk-in centre in the customers location. In my opinion, the policy is not as clear as AIG asserts and the wording above can be read 
as meaning that the phone will be repaired, if it is repairable. Mr Es phone was repairable, 
so there was a repair option available, as far as he was concerned, just not by AIGs 
repairers. I am not suggesting that all phones capable of repair should be repaired under the 
policy at whatever cost, but having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I 
think it was unreasonable to refuse to meet the costs of the repair. I say partly because the 
policy is not as clear as AIG says but also because I do not think the alternatives offered by 
AIG were reasonable. 
AIG offered a replacement phone. The policy provides that AIG will try to provide you with 
the same make and model of phone and then, like all other mobile phone insurance 
policies, sets out some parameters to cover the possibility the insured make and model 
phone might not be available. While it is not always possible to replace the exact make and 
model phone, in my opinion, it is a reasonable expectation that an insurer will provide as 
close a match to the insured phone as reasonable possible. 
AIG says that, as the technical specification of the replacement phones it offered are higher 
than the insured phone, this means it has met its obligations to provide a reasonable 
replacement. It suggests the technical specification is the only deciding factor in whether a 
suitable replacement has been offered. I do not agree. The insured phone is not the latest 
technology perhaps but is desirable for other reasons, and is not in my opinion, comparable 
to the phones offered. 
The policy terms have to be applied reasonably. And the proviso that AIG might not be able 
to always offer an exact match does not mean that it will always be acceptable to offer an 
alternative make and model phone, when other means of indemnifying the loss are 
available, such as paying for the repair. 
AIG did also make a cash in lieu offer of £1,000. I agree that this is not normally provided for 
and it was an attempt to resolve the matter. Mr E was prepared to accept this offer and pay 
the balance of the repair costs himself but AIG insisted it would in those circumstances be 
entitled to keep the insured phone. Normally that would be right in principle, if Mr E had been 
fully indemnified for his loss by the payment. However, I do not think it had offered full 
indemnity. AIG says the cash offer is enough for Mr E to buy one of the make and model 
phones it offered as a replacement but, for the reasons given above, I do not agree that they 
are reasonable alternatives. 
AIG also says the cash offer was reasonable as it has seen one UK advert for the insured 
phone for £1,000, so Mr E could buy a replacement for the cash offered. However, AIG has 
not provided any documentary evidence to support this. I have not found any of the same 
make or model phones for sale online. As there is no convincing evidence that £1,000 would 
be sufficient to indemnify Mr E for his phone (i.e. that it was enough to buy the same or a 
reasonably similar phone) I do not think AIG was entitled to also keep the phone and it was 
not unreasonable therefore of Mr E to refuse this offer. 
Overall, I think there was a failure by AIG to consider the particular individual circumstances 
of this case. The phone was reparable and was economical to repair (when comparing 
replacement costs) it was just outside of AIGs repairs capabilities. AIG also was unable to 
provide a reasonable replacement. Overall, therefore I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for AIG to reimburse Mr E for the repair costs he paid, together with interest at 
our usual rate. 
I note Mr E was put to the expense and trouble of getting a temporary phone but I do not 
think AIG needs to reimburse the cost of this, as it would have still taken some time to get 
the phone repaired, even if it had agreed to pay the costs of that earlier. However, I note it  took eight days for AIG to initially register the claim and Mr E had to chase this up. I 
therefore agree that some additional compensation is also warranted for the additional 
trouble caused to Mr E by AIGs handling of the claim, including the way he was spoken to in 
a call with AIG. I agree that £150 is reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against American International Group UK Limited and require it to do 
the following: 
1. reimburse Mr E the repair costs of £1,594.80, together with interest at 8% simple per 
annum, from the date he paid for the repairs to the date of reimbursement; and 
2. pay Mr E the sum of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of his claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman