DRN-2921097
The complaint
 Mr S complained because National Westminster Bank Plc allowed his father, who had 
dementia, to make three cash withdrawals totalling £16,000 from their joint account.  
 
What happened
  Mr Ss father, who Ill call Mr S senior, had a NatWest account. Mr S senior, who was in his 
late 80s, used this to receive pension payments and attendance allowance payments.  
Mr S told us that in June 2018 he, his brother, and Mr S senior had a meeting with the 
NatWest branch. This was to discuss Mr S seniors dementia, and the Power of Attorney 
they were in the process of arranging. Mr S  said that Mr S seniors medical condition was 
discussed in detail, and the branch manager took full notes. Mr S was added to the account 
as a joint account holder as part of this meeting. 
In April 2019, Mr S senior went to a branch and withdrew £6,000 in cash. In August he went 
to the branch and withdrew £5,000 in cash.
On 5 September, Mr S noticed the two withdrawals when he was checking bank statements. 
He spoke to his father about them, but his father didnt know what had happened to the 
money. Mr S knew it couldnt be for bills, because these were already taken care of. Mr S 
contacted NatWest and said that his father was 89, and in poor health suffering with 
dementia. He said that NatWest shouldnt have allowed Mr S senior to withdraw these large 
sums. NatWest replied on 16 September to say that the transactions had been authorised by 
chip and PIN, but if Mr S thought there had been fraud, he should get in touch again. 
In November, Mr S senior went to the branch again, and withdrew £5,000 cash. When Mr S 
saw this on the statement, he went to NatWest, and asked why his father had again been 
given large amounts of cash, without questions being asked. He complained. NatWest 
promised that the Customer Protection Team would contact him, but it didnt.
Mr S senior died on 21 December 2019. His death certificate refers to dementia.
In its August 2020 final response to Mr Ss complaint, NatWest said that it had checked with 
the branch, which had followed the correct procedures when carrying out the withdrawals. 
So it didnt uphold that part of Mr Ss complaint. NatWest accepted that its Customer 
Protection Team should have replied to Mr S after he contacted them after the November 
withdrawal. NatWest apologised, and paid him £50.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said NatWest shouldnt have 
handed his frail, elderly father so much cash without asking questions. Mr S explained that 
Mr S senior had had dementia, and didnt need money to pay bills as this was already taken 
care of. Mr S told NatWest that his father had no knowledge of what had happened to the 
money. He said that he would like the money returned, but he would hate this to happen to 
another family, and he wanted NatWests procedures to be tightened up. He said that no-
one could believe an 89 year old man with his fathers health conditions could have needed 
to withdraw £16,000 in cash in a seven month period.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that NatWest couldnt provide any 
information about what happened in the branch at the time of the transactions, but it had 
said it had internal procedures in place for customer security. She said she could only tell 
NatWest to refund the account, if Mr S senior had withdrawn the money as a result of a 
scam, but there was no evidence about why Mr S senior had withdrawn the money. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He discussed it with Mr S seniors family, and they were still 
concerned why NatWest had handed over large amounts of cash to a frail old man suffering 
from dementia, on three separate occasions. Mr S also pointed out that after the second 
withdrawal, he had raised these concerns with NatWest but it had still allowed another large 
withdrawal.
My provisional decision
I issue a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
I asked for more information from both sides. Mr S told us about the detailed meeting in June 
2018 with the NatWest branch manager, at which she took detailed notes about Mr S 
seniors health. He also clarified that hed made three complaints to NatWest:
- in person at the branch on 5  September 2019 about the withdrawals on 23 April and 
16 August. NatWest replied to this on 16 September;
- in writing on 6 December about the 15 November withdrawal, 
- in writing on 16 December about not receiving a reply.
Mr S also provided more information about his fathers health. He said that he had been 
suffering from dementia for over ten years, which had become more noticeable in the last 
four years. He said that Mr S senior was on a combination of drugs, taking five different 
tablets a day, but he sometimes forgot to take his medication, causing confusion. Mr S said 
his father and his fathers wife had carers visiting three times a day. There had been a social 
care assessment in early 2019 which concluded that Mr S senior couldnt live without 
additional dedicated help which was provided. There were also incidents relating to gas, 
forgetting instructions, and forgetting his sons visits. 
I asked NatWest:
- about the June 2018 detailed meeting about Mr S seniors dementia, which Mr S told 
us about;  
- whether the application to add Mr S to the account had included whether or not they 
agreed to withdrawals on one sole name or required both signatures
- for the statements for 2018;
- copies of three relevant polices including about customer protection, and what 
branch staff should do if they had concerns about a customers mental capacity to 
carry out a transaction.
NatWest said that it had no evidence that it had been advised of any health issues. It said Mr 
S had just been added to the account as a joint account holder, and not under a Power of 
Attorney. It also said that there were no notes on its systems in the place where 
vulnerabilities would be recorded.NatWest confirmed that either party could withdraw funds and it did not require both 
signatures. It also said that because all three disputed transactions took place in 2019, it 
would no longer have details of any discussions at the point of transaction. 
NatWest also pointed out that it had blocked Mr S seniors account on 11 December 2019 
following Mr Ss second complaint.
What the regulations require
There are regulations which apply to disputed transactions, and those for disputed 
transactions taking place during 2019 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These 
say that the payment service provider (here, NatWest) must show the payment was 
authenticated. I asked NatWest for this information, and it replied that it no longer had any 
technical evidence showing the authentication. Its the technical evidence which is required 
to prove authentication.
I noted that the limited and circumstantial evidence we do have was unclear. NatWests 
letter to Mr S on 16 September said that the first two transactions had been verified by chip 
and PIN. It wasnt disputed that Mr S senior possessed a genuine card. But NatWest hadnt 
provided the evidence to show Mr S senior was able to key in a PIN. And it told this service 
that at that time, a customer known to branch staff could complete a transaction by 
signature.
I said that it was unfortunate that NatWest hadnt provided authentication evidence for any of 
the three transactions, because it meant NatWest had failed clearly to show the steps it took 
to comply with this first stage of the Payment Services Regulation requirements. 
If NatWest had shown that the payments were authenticated, it would then be necessary to 
look at whether Mr S senior had authorised them. For completeness, I considered this 
anyway, even though NatWest hadnt shown authentication.
In looking at whether Mr S senior authorised the payments, I considered whether NatWest 
knew, or should have known, that Mr S senior was vulnerable. This might mean he lacked 
capability to authorise payments, and that special care should be taken. 
Whether NatWest should have done more before allowing the withdrawals
Mr S told us that there was a detailed meeting with the branch manager in 2018, with Mr S 
senior, Mr S, and his brother. Ive set out the details above. NatWest said it had no notes 
recording any vulnerabilities, and it said Mr S was added as a joint holder, not under a 
Power of Attorney.
I couldnt know for sure what happened in June 2018. But I thought it was more likely than 
not that there was a meeting at this time, and that Mr S was added to the account in order to 
assist Mr S senior. I thought it was also very likely that Mr S seniors situation was discussed 
during this meeting too  because I thought it would have been natural for this to have come 
up in a conversation like this as a key reason why the family wanted to help Mr S senior.
NatWest pointed out that Mr S wasnt added to the account under a Power of Attorney, but 
as a joint holder. But the evidence indicated that at that point, in June 2018, the family was 
still working towards the Power of Attorney, which was signed in October 2018 and 
registered in January 2019. It could be argued that the family could have contacted NatWest 
again when the Power of Attorney had been formally registered. But I accepted that the 
situation had been explained in full to the branch manager, which the family no doubt 
thought had sorted out and protected the NatWest account. And I didnt consider a Power of Attorney should have been essential in order for the branch manager to have added the 
relevant vulnerability note to the computer system.
So I considered it was more likely than not that the meeting took place as Mr S said, and that 
the branch manager was made aware of Mr S seniors medical situation.  I  thought it would 
have been sensible and good practice here to have recorded the details of this conversation, 
and to have put a customer protection marker on it to prompt staff to take more care.
In the absence of a vulnerability warning which should have been on the account, I 
considered whether or not Mr S senior would have shown medical symptoms. We couldnt 
know for certain what happened in the branch on those three occasions. And the fact that Mr 
S senior was 89 and physically frail didnt mean that NatWest should have questioned or 
prevented the cash withdrawals  and indeed to have done so might have been argued as 
being discriminatory. But Mr Ss evidence about the distressing memory incidents; the social 
care assessment in early 2019 which said that Mr S senior couldnt cope without extra help; 
and the fact that Mr S senior died of long-term dementia just a few months later, indicated it 
was more likely than not that Mr S senior would have shown some signs of vulnerability in 
the branch in 2019. If these signs were then viewed in the context of a marker or note about 
the conversation around the change to the account  I thought there would have been 
reasonable grounds here to have taken extra care before allowing Mr S to make the 
transactions he did.
NatWest hadnt provided authentication evidence, but I considered it was most likely that the 
three disputed transactions were paid following Mr S senior signing his name on a 
withdrawal slip at a counter. I didnt think it was likely that Mr S senior would have made the 
transactions by coping with a cash machine, remembering his PIN and keying it in. I said this 
based on the information which Mr S has provided to us about Mr S senior.
I also considered the type of transactions. Large cash withdrawals are intrinsically more risky 
than, say, a direct debit for council tax or a bank transfer to a recognised care firm would 
have been. Id only been provided with statements for 2019, but these dont show any 
historic pattern of large cash withdrawals. This sudden change again might have flagged 
concerns and led the branch to ask questions. The account otherwise generally only had 
incoming pension and attendance allowance credits. The attendance allowance appears to 
have been paid at the higher rate, which the .gov.uk website describes as help or 
supervision throughout both day or night, or if youre terminally ill. 
Taking all these factors into account  the meeting in 2018 which should have been 
recorded, the state of Mr S seniors health, the higher rate attendance allowance, and the 
atypical large withdrawals  I considered the branch should not have paid any of the three 
withdrawals without asking more questions. 
I looked at the relevant rules and guidance, including the Code of Practice for protecting 
customers against financial harm. This requires (section 5.3.1) banks to have measures in 
place to detect suspicious transactions, and the list includes sudden changes to the 
operation of an account, and large withdrawals. The Code of Practice also sets out (7.1.3.2) 
indicators of vulnerability. It also says (7.2.1.1) that where a member of staff suspects that a 
customer might be at risk of financial harm, they should speak to the customer, ask 
questions, and if necessary refer to a specialist team. Staff should also deal with such 
circumstances by asking questions including what the money is to be used for, who they are 
going to give it to.
NatWest told us that it does have internal procedures to protect customers, and said these 
might include, for instance, branch staff taking a customer to a private interview area to 
discuss a transaction in more detail, or getting in touch with a specialist customer protection manager. But these actions werent taken with Mr S senior. Nor did it contact Mr S, who was 
the joint holder of the account. 
So I considered that NatWest knew or should have known from June 2018 that Mr S senior 
was vulnerable. It was also likely that Mr S seniors dementia would have shown when he 
was in the branch in the last few months of his life. And the fact that the withdrawals were 
atypical of an account into which higher rate attendance allowance was paid, should also 
have alerted NatWest to take appropriate checking action. 
This was particularly obvious after Mr S complained about the first two transactions, but I 
considered that these circumstances applied to all three withdrawals. I noted that NatWest 
argued that it did put a marker on the account on 11 December 2019, but this was after three 
withdrawals and after Mr S had complained twice. Sadly, it was also within a few days of Mr 
S seniors death, and the time the marker was needed was from June 2018 onwards.
I considered whether there was a financial loss here. It wasnt possible to find out what 
happened to the cash. But on the balance of probabilities, I accepted that Mr S senior 
couldnt recall the transactions or what hed done with the money, when his son asked him a 
few months before he died of dementia. It was, to some extent, Mr Ss choice as to how he 
spent this money. But, in the circumstances here, I had to think that Mr S was most likely 
trying to take steps to avoid his father making withdrawals like these because of his 
circumstances. Thats understandable, if his condition meant that he was making cash 
payments, or giving people cash, in a way that served no means of benefitting him. It 
followed that had NatWest acted as I thought it should  it would have prevented these 
withdrawals being made and prevented the loss these now represent to the estate.
Taking all these factors into account, I thought it reasonable to conclude that NatWest didnt 
do enough to protect Mr S senior as a vulnerable customer when he made the large cash 
withdrawals in April, August and November 2019. It had in any case failed to provide the 
necessary authentication evidence, which any payment service provider has to pass as a 
first stage. 
My provisional decision was therefore that NatWest should refund the three disputed 
transactions, totalling £16,000, to the account.
Distress and inconvenience
I considered the distress and inconvenience which NatWests failures caused. The main 
distress which Mr S seniors family suffered was that which resulted from his medical 
condition. This would have been both constantly worrying and upsetting. But I considered 
that the trouble and upset caused by NatWests failure to protect the account added to the 
distress experienced by joint account holder Mr S and the family at a difficult time. I also 
bore in mind that it would have been particularly frustrating and upsetting that NatWest 
permitted a third large cash withdrawal in November 2019 even after Mr Ss complaint. And 
it also promised that Mr S would be contacted by its Customer Protection team, which didnt 
happen.  So I intended to order NatWest to pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Finally, I noted that Mr S said he wanted NatWest to change its procedures so that the same 
thing didnt happen to another family. This service cant order banks to change its processes, 
as thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But it appears here that 
NatWest may have had processes but its branch staff didnt implement them.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr S accepted the provisional decision.
Nat West didnt accept the provisional decision. It said:
- it had now obtained evidence that Mr S senior authorised the 20 April transaction 
through chip and PIN, and signed for the transactions on 15 August and 15 
November 2019. It sent evidence of these;
- the account showed that large cash withdrawals werent unusual. NatWest 
suggested that the fact that these werent unusual might explain why Mr S senior 
couldnt explain what hed done with the money;
- there was no record that NatWest had been made aware of Mr S seniors 
vulnerabilities, and if it had, it was likely that Mr S would have been added a Power of 
Attorney and not as joint holder;
- no evidence had been presented to show that any meetings had taken place in 2018;
- although it was unknown what Mr S senior did with the funds, there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show that he hadnt had the benefit of the funds to make use of as he 
desired. There was no evidence of fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I accept the new evidence that Mr S senior authorised the 20 April transaction through chip 
and PIN, and signed for the later transactions on 15 August and 15 November. The chip and 
PIN looks as if it was  carried out at the branch counter, not a machine, so there would have 
been interaction between Mr S senior and the branch staff. 
In the provisional decision I said I thought it was most likely that Mr S senior would have 
signed for the transactions, given what Mr S said about his fathers health. The use of chip 
and PIN here doesnt automatically mean that NatWest shouldnt have asked more 
questions about this withdrawal though. In any event, how the withdrawals were authorised 
here is only one aspect of this complaint. The key issue is that for each withdrawal in dispute 
Mr S was in the branch and interacting with staff members. 
Its correct that theres a pattern of cash withdrawals on this account. Theyd generally been 
for around £1,000 a month, with proportionately larger amounts if there hadnt been a 
withdrawal in the previous month(s)  for example £2,000 if a month had passed without a 
debit. This generally reflected the incoming benefits payments for what looks like the higher 
rate of Attendance Allowance. But the April 2019 withdrawal for £6,000 didnt follow this 
pattern, and nor did the August and November £5,000 withdrawals. So Im not persuaded 
that these three much larger withdrawals followed the previous pattern.
Ive reconsidered the question of what happened in June 2018. There are conflicting 
accounts. Mr S gave us a detailed account of the meeting which he, his brother, and father 
held with the branch manager. NatWest says theres no evidence of any meeting, and if 
there had been, Mr S would have been set up as a Power of Attorney, not as joint holder.  I find its more likely than not that there was a meeting in June 2018 at which Mr S seniors 
health was discussed. I say that partly because Mr S has been clear and consistent in what 
hes said. Its also because the account was changed into joint names at that point  so 
there must have been some sort of interaction. I dont consider its likely that Mr S was 
added to the account without any discussion of the reason. In terms of why Mr S would have 
been added as joint holder instead of Power of Attorney, I can see that the official Power of 
Attorney document was signed in October 2018 and registered in 2019. So when the family 
contacted NatWest, they didnt yet have the Power of Attorney, which does take a while to 
organise. As I set out in the provisional decision, it could be argued that the family should 
have contacted NatWest again when the Power of Attorney had been formally registered. 
But I consider  its more likely than not that the situation had been explained in full to the 
branch manager. And a Power of Attorney isnt essential for the branch manager to have 
added some form of note to banks systems to ensure it was treating a vulnerable customer 
fairly.
I agree with NatWest that its not possible to evidence what Mr S senior did with the money. 
Thats consistent with his dementia. I dont agree that the reason Mr S senor couldnt explain 
what hed done with the money, was because the withdrawals were normal. If they had been 
routine, its more likely he would have known. I think the lack of explanation is much more 
likely to have been the result of his medical condition. And although well never know what 
actually happened to the money after Mr S senior left the branch with it, that alone doesnt 
automatically mean that NatWest acted fairly in its responsibilities to Mr S senior.
Ive considered whether there was a financial loss here. I recognise that NatWest says its 
not possible to show there was a loss  because we dont know what happened to the 
money after Mr S senior took it out of the branch. In order to decide whether or not its likely 
that there was a financial loss as a result of Nat West allowing a vulnerable customer to 
withdraw these large amounts of cash, I asked Mr S for more information about his fathers 
health and condition. 
Mr S told us that as his fathers condition worsened, health and social care professionals 
advised the family to put more formal steps in place to safeguard him. That led to Mr S 
becoming a joint account holder in 2018, and to the Power of Attorney process which they 
worked on setting up at the same time (signed in October 2018 and registered in January 
2019). The NatWest account was Mr S seniors only bank account.
When Mr S and his brother found out about the large withdrawals, and Mr S senior couldnt 
explain them, they asked the family if there had been any family gifts, or purchases made. 
No-one in the family knew anything about where the money had gone. And when they 
cleared Mr S seniors flat after his death, there was no cash, or items of monetary value  
just his clothes and trinkets. Mr S told us that he took home a single travel bag with old 
photographs and an address book, and that was it.
Its reasonable for there to be some form of tangible benefit from withdrawals of this size. But 
there is no evidence of Mr S senior benefitting from these withdrawals. When thats balanced 
against what we know about his health at the time, I think its most likely that allowing these 
withdrawals in the way NatWest did meant he was given access to money that he used, or 
was taken from him, in a way that didnt benefit him. Ultimately I consider that the most likely 
reason for Mr Ss visit to the branch with his father and his addition to the account, was to try 
and avoid situations like this one. If NatWest had asked about the purpose before it allowed 
the withdrawals, then knowing what it should have from the 2018 meeting, this loss was 
likely to have been prevented. 
Taking these factors into consideration, I consider that NatWest didnt do enough to protect 
Mr S senior where he should have been known as a vulnerable customer when he made the large cash withdrawals in April, August and November 2019. By not doing so, I find that this 
led to a loss for Mr S that its more likely than not could have been avoided. I therefore 
consider that NatWest should refund these three withdrawals, totalling £16,000. My decision 
about the compensation for distress and inconvenience is unchanged from the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order National Westminster Bank plc to 
pay Mr S:
- £16,000 for the financial loss of the three disputed cash withdrawals in April, August 
and November 2019;
- Interest on these sums from the dates of the withdrawals to the date of payment, at 
8% pa simple; and
- £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It appears that NatWest paid 
£50, so this leaves £200 to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman