DRN-3879609
The complaint
Miss A complains Fairscore Ltd trading as Updraft irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Updraft approved Miss A for a £2,500 loan in February 2022. The term of the loan was 36 
months, with repayments of around £88. The purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. 
Miss A says the loan was unaffordable, and that Updraft did not complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before providing the loan.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt that Updraft had 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks and had subsequently made a fair decision 
to lend. This was because Miss A was able to consolidate her existing credit cards with this 
loan and reduce her overall monthly outgoings. 
Miss A disagreed with our investigators outcome. She maintained Updraft had not completed 
proportionate checks. Miss A did agree that the loan paid off her credit cards, but maintained 
that her existing credit commitments meant the loan was still unaffordable to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss As complaint. 
Our investigator set out our approach when considering these types of complaint in detail. 
So for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here, but in summary Ive considered if 
Updraft completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Miss A, and if so if 
it then made a fair decision to lend.
Having carefully considered all of the information Im satisfied Updraft has acted reasonably 
in this instance. I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Miss A.
Updraft says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. It 
says it completed an affordability assessment with Miss A which included asking her to 
confirm her income (listed as £18,000) and major outgoings. It says it also searched Miss 
As credit file and used this information to verify Miss As existing commitments. It challenged 
some of the information Miss A had provided such as Miss A placing a £0 value for her 
rent/mortgage payments (Miss A explained this was because her partner paid this amount). 
The credit file showed that Miss A had around £16,000 in existing unsecured credit. And that 
the amount of her existing credit card was around £1,500. There were no negative markers 
showing on Miss As credit file. When using this information to complete the affordability 
assessment Updraft also used national average statistics to calculate Miss As non-credit 
commitments. It says after it completed the above affordability assessment it left Miss A with 
a disposable amount of around £240.
Ive carefully considered this argument, and whilst I understand Updrafts point of view, Im 
persuaded in this instance it shouldve completed further checks for them to be 
proportionate. I say this because whilst Updraft had placed a figure for Miss As non-credit 
commitments using national averages, Im not persuaded Miss As situation was such that it 
could be reasonably relied upon. I say this because Miss As credit file demonstrated that 
her overall level of debt was almost the same level as her income. It showed that whilst Miss 
A may not have had negative markers, thats she was utilising forms of credit potentially to 
supplement her income. And although this loan was going to consolidate some of Miss As 
existing credit, it was not going to consolidate it all. As such Im satisfied that further checks 
to verify Miss As outgoings wouldve been reasonable to consider them proportionate. 
As Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed I have to consider 
what further information wouldve likely shown. And in this instance Im satisfied it wouldve 
likely shown the loan was affordable to Miss A, and as such Updraft wouldve continued to 
lend to her.
As part of its submission to our service Updraft has provided copies of Miss As account 
transactions. Im satisfied this information was not gathered as part of Miss As initial 
application (albeit our service asked Updraft to confirm this with no response), as the 
transactions date are from both before and after the loan was approved and provided to Miss 
A.
Ive reviewed these statements and Im satisfied that they show Miss A was in a position to 
sustainably afford the repayments for this loan. They show her income was in line with the 
amount she had declared, and although she did have a number of existing credit 
commitments, that after taking into consideration these existing credit commitments and 
essential spending that she had sufficient income to meet the required £88 payments. I 
should also point out that Updraft were entitled to rely on the fact Miss A was going to use 
this amount to settle her existing credit card commitments thereby creating more disposable 
income when calculating whether she could meet this commitment. 
It follows that as Im persuaded the loan was likely affordable to Miss A, Im satisfied that 
Updraft acted reasonably when approving this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman