DRN-3035459
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
     
summary and background to complaint
Mr H has said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
loan in 2008.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr H had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr Hs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr H about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Hs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloyds payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr Hs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but referred us to points and arguments made previously. Mr H asked to 
continue with his case  so, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mr Hs complaint was made in 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds sold the policy 
to him  in 2008  which is the event hes complaining about here. So I need to think about 
whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr H should reasonably have 
been aware he had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mr H a letter in 2012 (and a follow up in 2013) which alerted him to the 
possibility something might have gone wrong with his policy sale. Given what Mr H is 
complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had reason to 
complain if he got this letter.
I say this because Lloyds letter, amongst other things, told Mr H that if hed decided to repay 
his loan early he may only have been entitled to a partial refund of what he paid for the PPI 
and this wouldnt be on a pro-rata basis and it told him its adviser shouldve brought this to 
his attention at the sale  and Mr H has said in his complaint that hes unhappy with the PPI 
because, amongst other things, it was obvious he might repay his loan early and he wouldnt 
have wanted the PPI if hed known he wouldnt get a pro-rata rebate in that situation.
Mr Hs representatives say they cant verify Lloyds letter was sent  and Ive thought about 
this. But Lloyds has provided a copy of the letter, showing the date it was produced and the 
address to which it was to be sent. Im persuaded its most likely it was sent  and I havent 
been told about any reason why Mr H might not have received it. Im satisfied its most likely 
to have been delivered correctly.
So, in light of what Ive said above, Mr H needed to make his complaint about the policy sale 
before the time to do so expired in 2015. As he didnt complain until 2019, his complaint is 
out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But other than what Ive looked at 
above, Mr H hasnt given any reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr H with his complaint about how this policy was sold 
 and I appreciate this may disappoint him.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr H wouldnt have taken the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing 
the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. Lloyds has told us it paid this compensation to Mr H by bank 
transfer in September 2019.So I consider that Lloyds payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr H compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Hs complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman