DRN-3387661
The complaint
Mr D complains about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods (SDFL) 
and the missed payment theyve reported to his credit file.
What happened
Mr D held an account with SDFL which required him to make a minimum payment each 
month. But in August and September 2021, Mr D didnt make these payments. And the built-
up arrears werent cleared until October. So, SDFL reported a missed payment marker to Mr 
Ds credit file for September. Mr D wasnt happy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr D didnt think SDFL were fair to add a missed payment marker to his credit file. He 
explained he had an ongoing dispute with them regarding their failure to credit his account 
with a voucher, and had this voucher been added correctly the minimum payments wouldnt 
have been required. He explained the marker on his credit file had impacted the mortgage 
interest rate he was able to obtain. So, he wanted SDFL to remove the marker and 
compensate him £5,000.
SDFL responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd applied the marker to Mr Ds credit 
file fairly. And they explained they chose to only place the September marker as Mr Ds 
missed payment in August was worth less than £10. While they recognised there was an 
open dispute with Mr D, they explained theyd still expect Mr D to meet his minimum monthly 
repayment as a refund or payment couldnt be guaranteed. And so, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied from the 
statements provided that Mr D has missed his minimum payment in both August and 
September. So, they didnt think SDFL had acted unfairly when reporting a missed payment 
to Mr Ds credit file, as they had a duty to report how he managed his account accurately. 
And while they recognised Mr D had an outstanding dispute, they explained the issue in 
dispute occurred in December 2019 and theyd seen evidence to show Mr D has maintained 
his minimum payments since then until August 2021. So, they didnt think Mr D had been 
refusing to make any payments to the account. And even so, they explained theyd still 
expect Mr D to make his minimum monthly repayment while the dispute was waiting to be 
resolved. Because of this, they didnt think SDFL needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. Hes explained that, 
due to the missed payment marker, hes had to fix his mortgage at a higher rate of interest 
than he wanted. And I can appreciate the financial impact this will have had. I can also 
understand why Mr D would be additionally frustrated by this, as he already had an ongoing 
dispute with SDFL which he believes wouldve impacted the payments he missed. So, I do 
recognise why Mr D would feel as though SDFL should compensate him for the upset hes 
been caused.
But for me to say SDFL should compensate Mr D, and remove the missed payment marker, 
Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
when they reported this missed payment to Mr Ds credit file. And if I think they did act within 
these, Id then need to be satisfied they acted unfairly when reporting the missed payment. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
It's not disputed that Mr D missed his minimum monthly repayments in August and 
September 2021. Ive seen in Mr Ds July statement; he was informed a minimum payment 
of £6.40 was due by 13 August. I cant see a payment was made. SDFL have explained they 
didnt report this as the value of the payment was less than £10. SDFL didnt need to take 
this decision, so I think Mr D benefitted from this.
And I can see in Mr Ds August statement, he was informed a minimum payment of £12.80 
was due by 10 September. Again, I cant see a payment was made by this time. Instead, Mr 
D cleared the arrears in October. So, SDFL reported a missed payment to Mr Ds credit file 
for September, as the arrears amount exceeded £10. As no payment was made in 
September, I think this is an accurate reflection of the way Mr D managed his account. And 
SDFL have an obligation to report this information to Mr Ds credit file, so other credit 
providers can take this into consideration when calculating their risk of lending.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account which explain clearly a minimum 
payment would be required each month. They also go on to explain that missing payments 
can have serious consequences before stating It may also impact adversely on your credit 
rating making it harder for you to obtain credit.
So, I think SDFL acted in line with their terms and conditions when reporting the missed 
payment, as they made it clear they may do so. And I think they acted fairly when reporting 
to Mr Ds credit file, as it was an accurate reflection of Mr Ds management of the account. 
So, I dont think SDFL needed to do anything more.
I understand Mr D wont agree with this. And I recognise he had an ongoing dispute with 
SDFL, which our service has investigated separately and upheld. But I dont think this 
dispute impacts the decision Ive reached. The dispute began in 2019, and Mr D had 
continued to make his minimum payments to the account during the time between this and 
Mr D missing his payment in August 2021. So, I think Mr D was aware he still needed to 
ensure his minimum payments were met, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, while the dispute was ongoing. And he didnt do so. 
While I recognise the disputed amount wouldve covered the cost of the two payments he 
missed, I dont think this means SDFL have acted unfairly by reporting the missed payment 
to his credit file when payments had been missed, and arrears accrued, in two consecutive 
months.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Littlewoods.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman