DRN-3542116
The complaint
Mr G, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that American 
Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected his claims under the Consumer Credit 
Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product.
What happened
In 2017 Mr G and his wife entered into a contract with a Panamanian company I will call B 
for membership of a holiday club at a cost of $13,375. Of this £714.64 was paid using Mr Gs 
AESEL credit card. This makes Mr G the eligible claimant and in this decision for simplicity I 
will refer to him as the purchaser. 
In December 2019 PR submitted a letter of claim on behalf of Mr G to AESEL.  It said that 
Mr G had been told he would have to pay a maintenance fee, but not that it would increase 
by 10% a year. It said he had been led to believe that he could take 30 weeks holiday, but 
not that he could only have one week each year. It claimed Bs representative had made 
other false claims and subsequently Mr G had been unable to utilise the product and so 
there had been a breach of contract. 
AESEL rejected the claim and said that PR was relying on unsupported testimony from Mr 
G. It explained that no supporting evidence had been supplied and it had not been made 
clear how the contract had been breached.
PR brought a complaint to this service on Mr Gs behalf stating that B had breached feh 
contract by misrepresenting it and breaching the EU Timeshare Directive. The complaint 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said 
there was insufficient evidence to show that there had been either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. PR didnt agree but submitted no further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
S. 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under s. 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of s. 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr G) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (AESEL) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as AESEL was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
On Mr Gs behalf PR alleges that the holiday product was misrepresented to him, in 
particular that he was unaware the maintenance fees would increase and he was limited to 
one weeks use per year.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, 
and in what circumstances. But the terms of the contract set out fairly clearly what was being 
purchased. It states that Mr G has use of a junior suite which may be utilized 1 week(s) per 
year, during 30 consecutive years for the lodging services 
With regard to the annual fees the agreement sets out clearly that these may increase. It 
states:
In addition to the amount mentioned in the preceding clause, the MEMBER shall pay the 
CLUB'S ANNUAL FEE. For the 2013 the CLUB'S ANNUAL FEE will be 163.00 USD and will 
be due in the course (15) days of January of each year, and during the entire duration of the 
membership. However, without prejudice to what has been mentioned previously, the 
CLUB'S ANNUAL FEE could incur in an increase year fees, based on any increases in 
various line items for which they are intended. THE CLUB compromises (STET) to do its 
best effort that in the event an increase occurs, to not exceed more than a ten percent (10%) 
of the contribution of the previous year. The fee must be paid annually, even If the member 
does not use the services.This was signed by Mr G and it does not support his claim. As our investigator has said the 
sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the product and emphasised the 
benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that this amounted to 
misrepresentation. It is reasonable of AESEL to have expected Mr G to have read the 
documentation and to have been satisfied with what he was signing.
Overall it is difficult for me to conclude that any misrepresentations were made.
Breach of Contract
As our investigator has explained under s.75 of the CCA, we can only consider whether the 
B failed to perform one or more of the contracts terms  thereby breaching the contract. I 
have not seen evidence that this occurred which makes it difficult for me to conclude there 
has been one or more breaches. PR has said Mr G has not been able to use the product, 
but has not explained what has prevented him. It has not given any evidence of a breach.
It has also referred to the EU Directive, but this contract is with a Panamanian company and 
the contract says that all parties accept the jurisdiction of the laws and tribunals of Panama. 
As such I do not consider the EU Timeshare Directive has any bearing on this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman