DRN-3181215
The complaint
Miss J complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) damaged her property 
when handling a claim under her washing machine breakdown cover. 
Reference to D&G includes its agents.
What happened
Miss J had insurance with D&G that covered her for the repair or replacement of her 
washing machine in the event of a breakdown. In March 2021 she called D&G as her 
washing machine had stopped working and it was leaking from underneath the appliance. 
D&G arranged an appointment for about two weeks later. An engineer attended but didnt 
repair the washing machine as they needed more parts.  
At the end of March 2021 Miss J called D&G to complain. She said the engineer had 
damaged the waste pipe in the sink when they pulled the washing machine out. She said 
shed returned from work and the kitchen floor was flooded and the appliances were under a 
few inches of water. The engineer denied causing the damage and D&G didnt uphold her 
complaint. Due to the delay in repairing the washing machine, D&G decided to replace it. A 
new machine was installed in April 2021. 
Miss J wasnt happy that D&G hadnt upheld her complaint about the water damage and 
brought her complaint to this service. She said her kitchen was only a few months old and 
the bottoms of the units were now showing water damage. She said this matter had 
impacted her mental health and shed had to increase her medication. 
Our investigator looked at the evidence, but they didnt think it was fair and reasonable to 
conclude that D&G had caused the damage. They didnt think D&G needed to do anything 
more. As Miss J didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think D&G made a mistake, or treated Miss J unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve her complaint. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
D&G have said, I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss J will be disappointed by this outcome, 
but I hope she can understand the reasons behind my decision. 
Miss Js insurance policy with D&G covers the repair or replacement of her washing machine 
in the event of breakdown. D&G has replaced her washing machine, thus fulfilling its policy 
obligations. The outstanding issue here is whether D&G should also pay for the water 
damage caused to Miss Js kitchen. Miss J believes D&Gs engineer is responsible for that 
damage, but D&G doesnt agree. 
Miss Js policy says that loss or damage that occurs to her property or her possessions is 
excluded from the insurance cover unless its been caused by something thats D&Gs fault. 
So, the only way I can ask D&G to cover the cost of repairs to Miss Js property is if theres 
evidence that shows the water damage was caused by the engineer when they visited. 
Miss J told this service that the engineer turned the water off under the kitchen sink when 
they arrived. As they needed some parts, they said theyd call back when the parts arrived. 
Miss J said she didnt go back into the kitchen til the next day and then found the floor was 
flooded and her appliances were under a few inches of water. She believes the engineer 
caused the damage when they pulled the washing machine and drier away from the wall, 
and the disposal pipe from the sink was damaged. She said her son was washing up that 
evening without knowing the disposal pipe had been pulled away, thus causing the escape 
of water. Miss J said her son hadnt noticed the leak at the time and didnt believe it would 
necessarily have been obvious.
D&Gs engineer denied responsibility. D&G noted that the water was leaking before the 
engineer had arrived. And as new parts were needed to repair the washing machine, it 
shouldnt have been used before the new parts were fitted. It believes its more likely any 
damage was caused by the original leak from underneath the appliance. It also noted that 
water is very invasive and might not have been noticed for several days after the fault was 
reported.
Its not clear from the evidence when or how the damage occurred, or who caused it. In 
situations like this, where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I must base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Having carefully 
considered the evidence in this case, I dont think it would be fair to say D&G should take 
responsibility for the damage. I say that because I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
its more likely than not that D&G caused it. 
Miss J has shown us some photographs of the waste pipe under her sink but they dont 
show the extent of the damage or what, or who, caused the leak. I accept D&Gs point that 
some, or part, of the water damage might have been caused by the original leak from the 
washing machine. And any damage caused by that leak isnt covered under the terms of 
Miss Js policy. Equally, the water damage could have been caused because the engineer 
damaged the waste pipe under the sink when they moved the washing machine and drier, 
as Miss J says. But she also says the engineer turned off the water when they arrived, in 
which case no further water damage should have occurred after the initial leak. And, if the 
damage was caused when her son used the sink without knowing the washing machine and 
drier had been moved and the disposal pipe detached, theres a question about whether 
there was a responsibility on Miss J and her son to have done more to stop or reduce the 
damage. I dont want to speculate about what might have happened. I dont doubt Miss Js 
recollection of events or her strongly held belief that the engineer caused the damage. But, 
in light of the evidence, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask D&G to repair the 
water damage. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss J faced but I dont think D&G needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold your complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman