DRN-3615860
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim for storm damage 
under his home insurance.
Mr C is represented in this matter by his insurance broker but, for simplicity, Ill refer mainly 
to Mr C in my decision.
What happened
Mr C had an Ageas home insurance policy. In November 2021, following storm Arwen, he 
discovered his rear gates had blown over causing damage to boundary walls. Mr C made a 
claim on his home insurance, via his insurance broker. 
Ageas appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report concluded: 
The cause of damage is the gates which have pulled the brickwork down in our 
surveyors opinion due to the weight of the gates which are too heavy for the existing 
brickwork / stonework, which were not designed with these gates in mind. The 
property is not in an exposed location. The brickwork has not been directly impacted 
by storm damage and storm damage to gates is a specific exclusion on most 
policies.
Ageas declined the claim. It told Mr C the damage to his walls was because of the heavy 
gates, not the storm. This meant the damage wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr C was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Ageas to 
settle his claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Ageas had done enough to show that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage and 
didnt think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. She recommended that it 
reassess Mr Cs claim for costs hes paid to repair the boundary wall.
Ageas disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mr Cs cover only makes Ageas liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. 
Mr C says his boundary walls were damaged by a storm. Page 14 of his policy booklet 
shows hes covered for this and defines a storm as: strong winds of over 55mph, or damage 
by extreme rain or snow. Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour. Snowfall is 
extreme if 12 inches or more falls in a 24-hour period. 
Ageas disagrees. It says, The damage has not been caused by an insured event and this 
and the fact the gates were too heavy is the reason the claim was declined. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
The question of storm conditions isnt disputed. An Ageas internal note said its weather 
tracker recorded 55mph winds. Met Office information for the 2021/22 storm season shows 
that storm Arwen hit the UK on 26/27 November 2021, bringing severe winds across the UK. 
The weather records for the area near where Mr C lives show high winds on 26 and 27 
November. So Im satisfied that there were storm conditions the night Mr C says his walls 
were damaged.
Second, I think its reasonable to think a storm might cause damage to boundary walls. I 
think Ageas would accept this general point. 
So the last question is key. Ageas says the storm conditions werent the main cause of the 
damage. Instead, it says Mr Cs gates were too heavy to be supported by the boundary 
walls. This was poor workmanship by the builder who installed them, so isnt covered by Mr 
Cs policy (Some of the main reasons we wont pay a claim are poor design or 
workmanship, page 5).
I know Ageass expert says the gates were too heavy. But he doesnt provide any evidence 
to support this conclusion, such as a calculation showing, for example, the weight of the 
gates against a maximum load capacity for the walls.
Mr C sent us his HomeBuyer Report dated 15 March 2021, eight months before the storm. 
He says: This is a comprehensive report and makes no mention of the gates being too 
heavy or poor workmanship, things which would have been highlighted in the report if 
present. Section G of this report notes that the boundaries of the property are defined by 
stone walls and makes no further comment. It doesnt mention the external gates at all. I 
agree with our investigator that this isnt conclusive proof the walls were in good condition. 
However, Ageas said its surveyors photos showed extensive cracking and crumbling of the 
mortar as well as some areas where no mortar is present. Mr Cs HomeBuyer Report 
explains how the survey is carried out. It says: The surveyor inspects the condition of 
boundary walls, fences, permanent outbuildings and areas in common (shared) use. I think 
Mr Cs surveyor would have noted any obvious or significant cracks in the walls, particularly 
if they were as serious as Ageas says. 
Mr C moved into the property in June 2021 and, while he wasnt sure exactly how long the 
gates had been there, believed theyd been there many years. Ageass report says Mrs C 
believed the gates were less than three years old. Even if I accept the latter estimate, I 
think its unlikely there would have been no obvious sign of damage at least two years after 
the gates were installed if, as Ageas says, they were too heavy to be supported by existing 
walls in poor condition.
Finally, I think its unlikely a builder would have installed the gates without considering the 
strength of the existing walls or doing anything to strengthen them if s/he thought they werent able to support the gates.
So I dont think Ageas has adequately shown that the weight of the gates was the reason 
they fell over. In other words, Im satisfied that the storm was the main cause of damage to 
the walls.
Mr C accepts that damage to his gates isnt covered by his policy. I think Ageas should settle 
the claim for repairs to his walls. Mr C should provide Ageas with evidence of these costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to settle 
Mr Cs claim for damage to his boundary walls, in line with the policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman