DRN-3171179
The complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Bentley 
Financial Services (VWFS) recorded missed payments on his credit file after he requested a 
payment holiday he needed as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr K was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £279,207 over 48 months; with 48 monthly repayments of 
£4,728, and a final payment of £127,822.
In March 2020 Mr K contacted VWFS to ask about a payment holiday as his income had 
reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  Hes unhappy that VWFS marked his credit file with 
missed payments for five months. He said they told him in July 2020 that theyd remove all 
adverse markers from his credit files. He said he had to contact them again in September 
2020 as the markers were still present. He said this meant he lost his deposit on a new car. 
He said he had to contact them again in April 2021 as his credit file was again showing 
arrears.
Mr K said he lost £8,000 as he was unable to get a payment holiday from another credit 
provider due to the credit issues caused by VWFS.
He also said he had to obtain finance on two other cars at a higher rate because of the credit 
issues caused by VWFS. And he had to sell the car because he had to end the agreement. 
He says he lost £100k on the value of the car.
VWFS said Mr Ks request for a payment deferral was declined as he was already three 
months in arrears by the time he made the request. They said this would have significantly 
increased the contract term, and/or the monthly payment. So they said they agreed a normal 
arrangement to pay rather than a payment deferral.
They said arrears were automatically recorded with the credit reference agencies, but they 
took steps afterwards to remove these manually. Unhappy with this Mr K complained to this 
service. He was unhappy that the issue with reporting adverse information to his credit file 
had happened again, after it had been initially fixed. He said he wanted compensation for the 
losses he said this caused him.
Our investigator didnt think VWFS had acted fairly when they declined Mr Ks request for a 
payment holiday. And he thinks that because of this VWFS recorded arrears on his credit file 
and this shouldnt have happened.
He said VWFS should pay Mr K £200 for the distress this had caused. But he wasnt 
satisfied that Mr Ks losses were solely and directly due to the adverse information recorded 
on the credit file.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said his losses were due to 
adverse information VWFS placed on his credit file. He said his losses amounted to £73,000 
 this was made up of £27,000 on two other cars  this was the difference in overall cost as 
he had to enter into more expensive credit agreements. He said he had to sell the car and 
end the agreement as this was the only way he could stop VWFS marking adverse markers 
on his credit file. He said this resulted in a £40,000 loss from the sale of the car that was the 
subject of this agreement. He also wanted £1,000 for his time wasted in calls to VWFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I think its important that I explain my role isnt to fine or to punish a business  thats the role 
of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to look at the issues that a 
consumer  in this case Mr K  may have experienced, and see if the business  in this case 
VWFS  have done anything wrong. If they have, I look to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
As stated above, the FCA issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 April 
2020, for customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The 
purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional and immediate support to customers 
facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.
Mr K first contacted VWFS to request a payment holiday in March 2020, before the FCA 
issued its guidance. VWFS said it didnt consider a payment holiday was appropriate at the 
time  I disagree. I accept that the FCA guidance wasnt available to them when the 
guidance was issued. But they had the opportunity to correct this after the guidance was 
issued.
If they had, I think it more likely than not that they would have given Mr K a payment holiday, 
of three months, and would likely have granted a further three months when the FCA issued 
its later guidance in July 2020. And, in line with the guidance, they wouldnt have treated Mr 
K as if he was in arrears, and wouldnt have reported the missed payments to Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRA) during the payment deferral period.
In September 2020 VWFS agreed that Mr K could repay the arrears over a 12-month period, 
and to remove all negative markings on his credit file. So Im satisfied that whilst this 
couldve happened sooner, VWFS did correct the situation, and put Mr K in the opposition he 
wouldve been if theyd dealt promptly and appropriately with his request for a Covid related 
payment deferral.
Credit reportingAs Ive already said, the FCA guidance says where a payment deferral is granted to 
customers who need support because they faced payment difficulties due to circumstances 
arising from Covid, businesses like VWFS shouldnt report missed payments to the CRAs. 
VWFS wrongly reported missed payments to the CRAs. 
But I can see from the file that VWFS took steps to amend Mr Ks credit file in September 
2020. And Im satisfied they were monitoring Mr Ks file as they said they had done. I say 
this because I can see they made an amendment in November 2020 when they found a 
negative marking for October 2020. 
So they took corrective action, and while it took longer than Id have expected, they put Mr K 
back in the position he shouldve been if theyd correctly applied the FCA guidance sooner.
Mr Ks consequential losses
Mr K says his losses were caused by VWFS recording missed payments on his credit file. 
Im not persuaded that is the case. He has provided evidence that he entered into 
agreements in September 2020 and December 2020, and he says these are at a higher rate 
of interest than he could have got if his credit file wasnt showing missed payments.
But Im not persuaded that the recording of missed payments was the direct cause of this. I 
say this because there are a number of factors that lenders consider when making a 
decision to lend, and when applying an interest rate.
Information on a credit file is just one factor. Other factors include general market conditions, 
and Mr Ks financial situation at the time. We know that both of these were heavily impacted 
by the Covid pandemic at the time he took out the new agreements. And Ive said why Im 
satisfied that VWFS had corrected the credit file in September 2020  and Mr K wouldve 
been able to explain this to any lender.
He also said he had to sell the car that was the subject of the agreement. He said he had to 
do this to stop VWFS applying negative markers on his credit file. That was his choice. But 
Ive said above why Im satisfied that VWFS were monitoring the file and ensuring any 
wrongly placed adverse markers were removed promptly.
I also think £200 is a fair amount to award for the distress and inconvenience caused. I say 
this because VWFS didnt resolve the issue as quickly as it couldve done, and it took Mr K 
several phone calls to get the issue resolved.
Putting things right
To put things right VWFS must pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Bentley Financial Services must follow my directions above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman