DRN-3643136
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £90. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps 
complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr P with his loan. Avant 
Credit didnt agree, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Mr P was already significantly 
indebted. And he also had more than one revolving credit account which was close to its 
limit. Most crucially, the information Avant Credit gathered also appears to show that Mr Ps 
expenditure exceeded his income. In these circumstances, I would have expected Avant 
Credit to find out more about Mr Ps circumstances before agreeing to lend to him. 
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Ps expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr P was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also seen why this 
was the case. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr P has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding 
out more about Mr Ps income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than 
not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr P. As Avant 
Credit provided Mr P with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr P lost out because of what Avant Credit did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr P by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr P paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on all refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr P to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman