DRN-2763507
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance 
claim and misled them by initially telling them they were covered. 
 
Mr W, a director of S, has brought the complaint to us on Ss behalf.  
For ease of reading, reference to NFU will also include its agent. 
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They contacted NFU to enquire 
about claiming after they realised they might be impacted by the Governments response to 
Covid-19. NFU emailed S on 18 March 2020 to indicate that S would be covered if they were 
required to close by the Government.  
A couple of weeks later, having been required to close, S then submitted their claim, and on 
2 April 2020 they followed this up to ask how their claim was progressing. NFU said it had 
reviewed the wording in the policy and didnt think it provided cover in the circumstances of 
Ss claim as S hadnt closed due to an incident within the immediate vicinity or within one 
mile of their premises. 
 
S complained to NFU as they thought NFU should honour the claim, particularly as it had 
indicated that they would be covered. NFU partly upheld Ss complaint. It said it had 
suggested the claim would be paid, but thought it was now correct in saying that the claim 
wasnt covered. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, S brought their complaint to us. They said theyd made 
business decisions, including making staff redundant, due to understanding their claim would 
be paid.
 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint and thought NFU had fairly said the claim wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy as Ss closure wasnt due to an incident within the 
immediate vicinity or one mile of their premises. He didnt think NFU had caused S a 
financial loss in providing misleading information as S had indicated that they were likely 
to have made staff redundant anyway and doing it earlier meant it had cost less. However, 
he did think the misleading information had caused S some inconvenience and asked NFU 
to pay S £100 compensation. 
 
NFU didnt respond to this view; however, S didnt agree. They didnt think £100 fairly 
compensated the time they had put into dealing with the claim and thought £1,000 would be 
more appropriate. S said theyd made other business decisions based on thinking their claim 
would be covered, and theyd needed to go ahead with the redundancies once theyd started 
the consultation. They also referred to other insurers paying claims following the Supreme 
Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. S asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on S. In reaching my decision, Ive thought about whether NFU was correct in turning 
down the claim, as well as whether providing S with misleading information caused them any 
financial loss or inconvenience.  
 
Turning down the claim 
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ss claim. 
 
The relevant section of Ss policy is an endorsement on the Policy Schedule, which states: 
 
Action of Competent Authority - Prevention of Access 
 
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from an incident in the immediate vicinity 
or within a one mile radius of the PREMISES where access is hindered or 
prevented by the action of any civil or statutory authority or by order of 
the government or any public authority for more than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
The most WE will pay in any one PERIOD OF INSURANCE is £50,000. 
 
S have referred to the FCAs test case. This case started in the High Court and the 
proceeded, on appeal, to the Supreme Court.  
 
The Supreme Court judgment did not consider this type of policy term. However, I think the 
High Court judgment is relevant to Ss complaint because the High Court considered a 
similar term to that within Ss policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.  
 
The High Court judgment said that the action taken by the Government in the regulations 
introduced on 21 and 26 March did qualify, under policy terms such as the one above, as 
action taken by a relevant authority. However, paragraph 405 of the judgment says: 
 
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of 
the clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a 
state of affairs but it is too geographically dispersed, variegated, prolonged and 
non-specific to amount to an incident Saying that the pandemic is everywhere 
does not mean that it is present at  particular insured premises and certainly does 
not mean that it amounts to an incident occurring within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises it is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in 
the radius with the disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment say: 
 
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the cover 
is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the incident 
to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises 
 
It follows that there is no cover under [this type of] clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic. 
 
I see no reason to depart from the judgment as I think the endorsement was intended to 
relate to incidents that were limited to the local vicinity of an insureds premises. The 
Government response to the national pandemic, which caused Ss closure, was not 
in response to a localised incident. As such, I dont think the endorsement provides cover for 
Ss claim.  
 
Misleading information 
 
NFU accept that the information provided to S on 18 March 2020 about the cover provided 
by the policy wasnt correct. I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for 
me to require NFU to pay a claim just because it gave incorrect information, but I do need to 
consider the impact that mistake had on S. 
 
S have indicated that they made business decisions based on being told their claim would 
be covered. However, with regard to redundancies, S said they would probably have made 
their employees redundant later and, in hindsight, this would have cost them more. Although 
S have referred to other business decisions also being made as a result of the expectation of 
cover under the policy, they have not provided evidence of any cost from these decisions 
being taken at this time as a result of NFUs mistake. 
 
I appreciate S had to make some very difficult decisions, but I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that they suffered any financial loss caused by NFUs mistake.  
 
However, I do recognise that the misleading information caused S some inconvenience, as 
they collated and submitted information about their claim to NFU in light of it. To compensate 
for this, I agree with our investigator that £100 would be a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for NFU to pay S.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to pay S £100 compensation for their inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman