DRN-2546581
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
declined a claim under her horse and rider insurance policy, avoided the policy and wants 
her to pay its investigation costs.
Mrs Cs husband represents her in the complaint but Mrs C is the sole complainant as the 
policy is in her name.
What happened
Mrs C took out a horse and rider insurance policy with NFU in 2013 and different horses 
have been insured under the policy. In a phone call to NFU on 29 March 2018 Mrs C added 
a horse who Ill refer to as B to the policy. Mrs Cs daughter had B on loan from 2017 for 
competition purposes. On 29 March 2018 she took B on permanent loan and under the loan 
agreement she was responsible for insuring B.
In May 2018 Mrs Cs daughter said she noticed B had a swelling his leg. A vet attended and 
did an ultrasound and gave a course of injections. Mrs C claimed for the treatment costs.
NFU refused to pay the claim. It found that B had been examined by a different vet in 
March 2018 before the policy started, and that vet had said B needed an ultrasound before 
continuing with work. NFU said that when Mrs C added B to the policy she was asked if B 
had lameness, injury, illness or condition and she answered incorrectly. 
NFU said Mrs C should have told it about Bs leg problem and if it had known it wouldnt 
have offered policy cover for B. NFU considered Mrs Cs incorrect answer to the question to 
be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy 
cover from the start. NFU kept the policy premium for Bs cover and also wants Mrs C to pay 
the loss adjusters fees of about the £2,375 that it spent on investigating the claim.
Mrs C complained to us. Our investigator agreed there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. But she didnt think the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and 
believed it was careless. Our investigator thought NFU was entitled to avoid the policy cover 
for B and decline the claim. But NFU should return the premium plus interest and couldnt 
fairly ask Mrs C to pay its investigation costs.
NFU doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. It still believes Mrs Cs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and says its policy wording enables it to 
recover its investigation costs from Mrs C.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.  
NFU says Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when it 
asked her about Bs health.
Ive looked at all the evidence including the vets evidence, what Mrs C and her daughter 
have said and listened to the call recording when Mrs C added B to the policy.
Mrs Cs daughter and B were part of a competition programme and  Ive seen the full details 
Mrs Cs given about that. As part of the programme before the event all horses had a 
compulsory check by the competition vet. The vets note in his summary of findings report 
dated 19 March 2018 says:
Medial suspensory branch enlarged RH, owner reports this is new. Warrants 
ultrasound before continuing with work. Rider plan to build strength and fitness and 
assess hindlimb later in year if horse will work out as competition mount.
The reports recommendations/actions say:
 Investigate/Ultrasound Right hind suspensory branches.
The report gives the names of who the report was circulated to which include the rider, 
which was Mrs Cs daughter. So I think Mrs Cs daughter knew the vet had recommended  
an investigation about a problem with Bs right hind leg (very basically, a ligament problem) 
and in the overall circumstances I think its more likely than not that Mrs C also knew.
The competition vet next saw B in May 2018 (after the policy was taken out) and his notes 
from that date say:
Medial suspensory branch Rh improved in size however lump at top of branch which 
has Pain on Palpation and horse positive to hindlimb flexion on this leg.  Horse 
lame RF/RH on hard circle to right. Improved on soft surface. .. Plan to assess with 
home vet later in week. Ultrasound of hind limb suspensory branchesConsider 
most significant factor medial suspensory branch RH...
The claim form submitted by Mrs Cs vet who saw B later in May 2018 shows the ultrasound 
and injections claimed for arose from the concern from (the competition ) vet re suspensory 
branch injury RH. On the claim form the reason for the referral  is concern from 
(competition) vet.
So I think from the vets evidence NFU can reasonably understand that the claim was for an 
injury/condition with Bs leg that began on or before 19 March 2018, before policy cover for  
B started.
When Mrs C arranged policy cover for B NFU asked her whether B was currently lame, off 
work or suffering from any illness, injury or condition. I think that was a clear question. Mrs C answered no. From the call recording I can hear that Mrs Cs daughter was involved in the 
call and she confirmed some of Mrs Cs answers to the questions asked, although not the 
health question.
Mrs C says she didnt mention what the vet had said to NFU as the vet check on 19 March 
was a standard process to check whether B could compete, he had no lameness or injuries 
at that time and the vet cleared him to carry on competing that day. 
But given the vets evidence of 19 March 2018 I think Mrs C answered that question 
incorrectly when taking out the policy. I think it would have been reasonable for her to tell 
NFU that there was a new problem with Bs leg and the vet had recommended B have an 
investigation for the injury/condition. Even if Mrs C didnt know the content of the vets report 
(which I think is unlikely) her daughter was part of the call and could have reasonably 
clarified the correct situation. 
If NFU had known the correct information Ive seen evidence from its underwriter that it  
wouldnt have offered cover for B. That means Im satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
NFU has said Mrs Cs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because she should 
have told it about the vets comments on 19 March 2018. NFUs also referred to Mrs Cs 
daughters statement not mentioning that B saw a vet in March 2018. But my main focus is 
on Mrs Cs actions, as the policyholder. Im not persuaded that NFU has shown Mrs Cs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And if a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or 
reckless then CIDRA says its careless.
I think Mrs C made a careless misrepresentation. Ive taken into account that the vet passed 
B fit to compete on 19 March and the next few days so it appears that B had no immediate 
lameness or serious injury around that time that Mrs C tried to conceal from NFU. Mrs C 
says her daughter recalls discussing a lump on Bs leg with the competition vet on 19 March 
and didnt think there was anything to be concerned about. But as Ive said, I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mrs C to tell NFU about the vets recommendation of an 
investigation of the lump in answer to the question it asked.
As Im satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions NFU can take in accordance with CIDRA. Im satisfied NFU wouldnt have offered to 
cover B if it had known the correct information so NFU can fairly avoid policy cover for B. 
That means NFU can treat the policy cover for B as though it never existed and not deal with 
any claims for B. That also means NFU must return any unused premiums the Mrs C paid, 
plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Ive considered whether it would be fair for NFU to recover the loss adjusters costs it paid to 
investigate the claim. NFU says it can rely on the following policy terms to recover the costs:
Fraud and misrepresentation
If YOU or anyone acting for YOU:
1. makes a claim which is fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated and/or  
supported by a fraudulent declaration, statement or other device; and/or
2.  intentionally misrepresents, misdescribes or withholds any material fact relevant 
to this insurance;
WE will not pay any part of YOUR claim or any other claim which YOU have made or which YOU may make under the POLICY and WE will have the right to:
1.  avoid, or at OUR option cancel, the POLICY and all other policies YOU have 
with US without returning any premium that YOU have paid;
2.  recover from YOU any amounts that WE have paid in respect of any claim, 
whether such claim was made before or after the fraudulent claim; and
3. refuse any other benefit under the POLICY.
But as Ive decided that Mrs C didnt make a deliberate, or in the policys word intentional  
misrepresentation I dont think its fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on the policy wording 
to cover the investigation costs. NFU also said it believes the fraud act enabled insurers to 
to recover their investigation costs if misrepresentation was deliberate. But even if I thought 
that was correct I dont think Mrs C made a deliberate misrepresentation. So Im not 
persuaded by NFUs arguments that it should be able to recover the costs and as Mrs  C 
made a careless misrepresentation I dont think its fair and reasonable for NFU to do so. 
I note that NFUs recent letter to us says its approach is now that it would now look to avoid 
the policy in its entirety rather than just removing cover for the specific horse. These events  
happened some time ago so its not clear if NFU did avoid the entire policy, which also 
covered  at least one other horse. Mrs C hasnt raised that issue as part of her complaint. 
She may want to contact NFU to clarify if her other horse/s are still covered under the 
policy.If her and NFU cant agree about that she can complain to NFU and ultimately to us 
about that separate matter.
Putting things right
Overall the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint is for me to partly uphold the  
complaint. NFU can avoid the cover for B from the start of the cover. As in effect the cover 
never existed NFU doesnt have to pay the claim. But NFU must refund the premiums for  
Bs cover, plus interest as detailed below, to Mrs C. NFU cant fairly seek to recover its costs 
of the investigation against Mrs C.  
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
refund to Mrs C the premium she paid for Bs policy cover plus interest* at 8% simple 
a year from the date the cover was avoided to the date the premium is refunded, and 
not seek to recover its costs of the investigation against Mrs C.
*If The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman