DRN-3032871
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr S has fallen victim to a purchase scam. He arranged to lease a car from a company he 
found on a popular social media platform. Ill refer to the company as T throughout this 
decision. 
On 12 January 2021, he paid a deposit of £1,387.22 to T (the first payment) as well as 
£412.02 for the first monthly contractual payment (the second payment). The payments 
were made via mobile banking. 
Whilst waiting for the car to be delivered, Mr S says he found evidence online that T was 
operating a scam. He reported the scam to Monzo on 13 January 2021. Monzo contacted 
the beneficiary bank on the same day, but no funds were returned and Monzo didnt agree to 
reimburse Mr S under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) because it said:
Effective warnings
Mr S was given a paying for goods and services warning during the payment 
journey of the first payment. The warning was timely, specific and impactful. It was 
delivered on a bright red screen with the words Stop, dont pay displayed clearly at 
the top. The warning went on to say: 
Remember:
X Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk of fraud
X Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments
Pay by card if you can.
You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam. Find 
a legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
Mr S hesitated for 7 minutes after the warning was given, before choosing to 
continue. Ultimately, he didnt take any action in response to the warning  for 
example, he didnt attempt to pay via a more secure method.
No warning was displayed during the payment journey of the second payment as it 
wasnt to a new payee.
Reasonable basis for belief
Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that he was transacting with a 
legitimate business offering genuine services.
Car leasing would normally require an in-person meeting and a credit check.
Mr S didnt do enough to check who he was paying and what for. 
Social media isnt a recognised platform for leasing a car, so Mr S should have taken 
much greater care  for example, by viewing the car/dealership in-person or pushing 
to use a protected payment method.
Mr S didnt check whether he was dealing with a genuine business or the clone of a 
legitimate business. In this case, he was dealing with a clone company, which had a 
different website and different social media identifiers to the genuine company. 
Legitimate companies dont use popular messaging platforms for sales 
communication, as T did, so this shouldve been a red flag to Mr S.
The price of the car was too good to be true.
From messages its seen between Mr S and T, its clear that Mr S had reservations 
prior to proceeding with the second payment, but he went ahead with it anyway.
Mr S was unhappy with Monzos decision not to reimburse him. So, he asked this Service to 
consider his complaint. He said: 
Effective warning
He saw Monzos warning and checked the invoice hed received from T to make sure 
the numbers were correct. 
He offered to pay T by card but it requested a bank transfer.
Given that he had to set-up regular monthly payments for the lease of the car, he 
thought that initial bank transfers made sense.
Reasonable basis for belief
He saw good reviews about the cars T had sold to its customers and decided to 
contact it via a popular messaging service, using the contact details provided on its 
social media account.
He doesnt have a very good credit score, and he chose to lease a car from T as it 
was offering the right deal for him.
He tried to compare the price of leasing a car from T against other companies, but it 
was hard as most other companies were offering new cars, and the car he arranged 
to lease was a used vehicle. 
He thought he was getting a good deal in his circumstances, but not too good to be 
true.
He didnt test drive the car he was arranging to lease as he had driven the same 
make and model previously. 
He had lots of communication with T before sending money to it.
He used the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agencys (DVLA) website to check that 
the car he was arranging to lease was a genuine car, that it was taxed and that it had 
a current MOT.
He looked for T on Companies House and had no concerns  it looked to be an 
official company, and the name on some of the documents hed received from T was 
displayed on Companies House.
He received documentation from T in relation to the lease, and everything    
matched-up.
He had to upload a picture of his driving licence for T, and this gave him the 
impression that it was official.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that the warning Monzo gave Mr S during the payment 
journey was impactful enough to be considered an effective warning under the CRM Code, 
so she didnt think Mr S had ignored an effective warning. She also thought that Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing he was making legitimate payments. Our investigator 
concluded that Monzo should reimburse Mr S under the CRM Code.
Monzo didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. It said:
It gave Mr S a timely, specific and impactful warning, which he ignored. It is not 
reasonable to expect a more specific warning than Mr S was given in the 
circumstances.
There were more professional and secure methods of contacting the legitimate 
business.
Mr S may have checked Companies House, but it would only have shown that a 
company exists in Ts name.
Mr S says he checked that the car existed, but not that it was owned by T or that they 
were eligible to lease it.
Mr S trusted positive reviews posted on the scammers social media account but did 
not look for independent reviews. If he had done an internet search on T or checked 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register, he wouldve been presented with 
information that would have shown he was being scammed.
Car retail services were not allowed to open at the relevant time, due to the 
pandemic. This should have been a red flag to Mr S.
The car lease terms were too good to be true.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr S has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo has argued that two of 
the exceptions apply in this case. It says that Mr S ignored an effective warning it gave 
during the payment journey and he made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was legitimate.
Effective warning
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on 
the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer.
Ive considered the warning Monzo says it gave Mr S during the payment journey of the first 
payment and I appreciate that it tried to provide an effective warning. But overall, Im not 
satisfied it can reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning exception 
were met. I dont think the warning was impactful or specific enough. 
Its clear to me that Monzos warning attempts to prevent purchase scams, but I dont think 
the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of purchase scam obvious 
to its customers. The warning is bright red and says Stop, dont pay. But then it just advises 
that bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk of fraud and 
that bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments so Pay by card if 
you can. It doesnt explain how fraudsters impersonate genuine companies or really bring to 
life what the type of scam Mr S fell victim to looks like. Nor does it talk about the prevalence 
of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be  it doesnt, for example, 
say that clone companies can appear genuine and look the same or very similar to the 
legitimate company they are impersonating.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person in Mr S position would fully understand 
the scam risk from the warning Monzo gave.
The circumstances of this scam made the warning even less effective. Considering Mr S 
testimony about the research he did before making the first payment, and the evidence hes 
provided from his dealings with T, Im satisfied that he didnt appreciate there was a risk that 
he was transacting with a scam company that was impersonating a legitimate business. The 
checks that he says he went away and did after reading Monzos warning support this  he 
was checking that the payment he was sending was correct rather than ensuring he was 
dealing with a legitimate business. If Monzo had really brought to life what a scam of the 
nature Mr S fell victim to looks like then I think this wouldve been important contextual 
information that wouldve affected Mr S decision making and led him to take additional steps 
to protect himself from financial harm.
Reasonable basis for belief
Im satisfied that Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief in this case because: 
Mr S has explained why he chose to lease a car from T rather than using, what may 
be considered, a more traditional route. Hes said he didnt have a very good credit 
score, and T was offering the right deal for him. In the circumstances, I find his 
explanation persuasive and reasonable.
Hes said that he checked Companies House for T and was reassured by what he 
saw, and that he checked the car out on the DVLAs website. T also had good 
reviews on its social media account. I understand that he hasnt provided backdated 
evidence of this, but Ive found his testimony to be consistent and plausible, and Ive 
no reason to doubt what hes said.
Ive seen the messages that passed between Mr S and T. Im satisfied that the 
scammer responded to Mr S over several days in a professional, convincing and 
informative manner.
The scammer provided Mr S with more pictures of the car upon request.
The evidence shows that Mr S had to complete an application form and direct debit 
mandate, and e-sign a contract to lease the car. He received an invoice and terms 
and conditions. And hes said he had to upload a picture of his driving licence. This 
made the process seem official to him. Ive looked at the documentation he received 
from T and I think it looks professional on the face of it. Monzo has pointed to a number of extra steps that Mr S couldve taken to protect himself, 
and its said that some features of the scam shouldve rung alarms bells for Mr S. I 
acknowledge Monzos points but, as Ive said above, I dont think it made the scam risk clear 
to Mr S. Overall, I think the fraud was sophisticated and I dont think its unreasonable that it 
went undetected by Mr S.
Monzo has said the messages between Mr S and T show that he had reservations prior to 
proceeding with the second payment, but he went ahead with it anyway. Ive reviewed those 
messages and although I can see that Mr S became concerned after he made the second 
payment, especially when T stopped communicating in the way he was accustomed to, Im 
not persuaded they show he had concerns beforehand  he simply asks T to confirm that it 
wants him to set the payment up.
Conclusions 
To conclude, Im satisfied that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Mr S lost to this 
scam under the terms of the CRM Code. I am not persuaded that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Mr S loss within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr S should have received a full 
refund under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman