DRN-2728852
The complaint
This complaint arises out of a mortgage account originally held in the joint names of Mr C 
and his brother. I am sorry to note that Mr Cs brother passed away in 2014. Thereafter, the 
mortgage account was in Mr Cs sole name.
Mr C has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd repossessed and sold the property without his 
knowledge or consent, and that the sale price was far less than the property was worth.
To settle the complaint, Mr C wants Ulster Bank to buy back the house and return it to his 
family.
What happened
On 11 September 2001 Mr C and his brother took out a mortgage with Ulster Bank, 
borrowing £48,750 over a term of 20 years on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage was 
used to purchase a property under the Right to Buy, with a discount from the relevant 
housing commission. 
Mr Cs brother passed away in November 2014. Mr C has told us that he considered the 
house to be derelict and not appropriate for renovation until complex legal issues around his 
brothers estate had been resolved. 
The mortgage fell into arrears, and in June 2019 Mr C paid off the arrears of about £9,000. 
After that, no further payments were received towards the mortgage.
In November 2019, after a field agent visited the property and reported it to be a security risk 
to the bank, possession was taken by Ulster Bank. Solicitors were instructed and the 
property was sold on 30 March 2020 for £100,000. I understand that there was a delay in 
releasing the sale proceeds, because the bank (or its solicitors) had to obtain confirmation 
that there was no longer any payment due to the housing commission. A response from the 
housing commission was held up, due to the pandemic. I understand the sale proceeds have 
now been released.
Mr C says that, other than a single attempt to contact him (using his later brothers phone 
number), no other contact was attempted by Ulster Bank before it took possession and sold 
the property. Mr C says that the property was, in his opinion, worth at least £245,000, and 
that, as a result, there has been a substantial loss to him and his family.
Mr C complained to Ulster Bank. The bank acknowledged that it had called Mr C on his late 
brothers mobile number in October 2019. But the bank didnt uphold any other part of Mr Cs 
complaint.
In its final response letter dated 18 June 2020 the bank explained that in June 2019, at the 
time when Mr C contacted the bank to pay off the arrears, Mr C had confirmed his address. 
This was the address to which the bank had sent all letters, and no alternative address had 
been given by Mr C. This was an address that had been updated on 24 April 2019, 
confirmed in writing by the bank in a letter sent the following day.
The bank was satisfied that, given the state of the property (as reported by the field agent), 
its actions in taking possession were justified.
Dissatisfied with the banks response, Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that Ulster Bank had acted reasonably, both in relation to the attempts it made to 
contact Mr C, and when it took possession and sold the property.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He hasnt provided 
any further evidence, other than saying that he didnt think the investigators findings 
accurately or fairly reflected what had happened.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Mr C on the loss of his brother. I can 
see from what Mr C has told us that there are complex family issues here, and that 
responsibility for these has fallen largely on his shoulders. Mr C has also explained that his 
own family and career, and renovation of his own home, were preoccupations, and that, as 
he considered the property which is the subject of this complaint to be derelict, he didnt 
intend to deal with it until legal issues were resolved.
Ulster Bank has acknowledged that it called Mr Cs brothers mobile number in October 2019 
when it was trying to get hold of Mr C. The bank accepts this was a mistake, due to the bank 
not taking a new contact number when Mr C had spoken to the bank on 18 June 2019. I can 
understand that this was upsetting for Mr C. but the crux of this complaint is that Mr C says 
the bank took possession of the property without his knowledge or consent, and without 
justification.
Im satisfied that in April 2019 Mr C updated his address with the bank, and this was 
confirmed in writing by Ulster Bank on 25 April 2019.  But I also note that after the arrears 
were cleared in June 2019, no further payment was received. Letters sent to Mr C at the 
address hed given the bank went unanswered. Given this, Im satisfied the bank did contact 
Mr C and that this was at the addressed hed given the bank.
In the circumstances, following the field agents report that the property was derelict (and 
which Mr C acknowledges was the case), Im satisfied the actions taken by Ulster Bank to 
take possession of the property were reasonable.
The Mortgage Terms and Conditions (annexed to the Mortgage Deed dated 11 September 
2001) says at clause 7:
The Borrower covenants with the lender:
(a) To keep the Mortgaged Property in good and substantial repair and condition 
At clause 9(c) the Terms and Conditions say:If the Borrower makes default for two months in making a payment of money under 
the Mortgage or  if the Borrower fails to perform or observe all or any of the 
covenants contained in or implied by the Mortgage  then in any such case all 
monies hereby secured including interest shall become immediately due and payable 
and all mortgagees powers by statute as hereby applied shall immediately become 
exercisable by the Lender at any time thereafter without previous notice to or the 
agreement of the Borrower
I will clarify here that the mortgagees powers by statute include the immediate power of 
sale.
Given this, Im satisfied that, not only was it reasonable for Ulster Bank to take possession, 
the bank was entitled to do so pursuant to the Terms and Conditions.
Ive noted what Mr C has said about the sale of the property, and that this was at a price 
substantially less than he believes the property was worth  which he thinks is £245,000. 
Two valuations were obtained  one at £87,500 and one at £95,000. The sale price was 
£100,000.
Ive looked at what Mr C has said about this, but I disagree with him that the property was 
sold at an undervalue. The photographs taken by the field agent show the property to be 
derelict and uninhabitable, without any amenities and containing large amounts of detritus. 
Whilst the sale price was lower than other properties in the area, I think this is an accurate 
reflection of the condition of the property and the amount of work that any buyer would need 
to carry out in order to make the property fit for habitation.
I also disagree with Mr Cs assertion that he thinks the property was worth £245,000. The 
property next door was offered for sale in about 2019 for £140,000. That property needed 
some modernisation, but was fully habitable and could be immediately occupied by a 
purchaser. 
Furthermore, online data of sales of similar properties in the area (semi-detached ex-Local 
Authority houses) does not support Mr Cs contention. In 2020 the highest price achieved in 
the area for any semi-detached property was £218,073. 
The only semi-detached property on the market for £245,000 at todays date doesnt appear 
to be ex-Local Authority and is fully modernised, in a semi-rural location next to open 
farmland and with sea views. A modernised end-of-terrace house within 500 metres of the 
secured property (and also appearing to be ex-Local Authority) is currently on the market for 
£119,950.
Given this, Im not persuaded that the property was worth £245,000, or that the sale price of 
£100,000 was unreasonable, given the condition of the property and the local market.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr C wanted, but after giving full consideration to everything 
thats happened, Im satisfied that Ulster Banks actions were reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and were in line with the account Terms and Conditions. Im also satisfied 
the property was not sold for less than it was actually worth.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman