DRN-1671354
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Studio Retail Limited increased the rate of interest on his credit 
agreement without giving him notice.
What happened
Mr M entered into a credit agreement with Studio in August 2012. The sample agreement 
Studio has provided from the time says: The APR is 29.5% (variable) (if you pay by direct 
debit) or 44.9% (variable) (if you pay by other methods); and it says that the interest rate 
could be changed at any time by notice to Mr M. 
Studio says Mr Ms APR has changed twice since he took out the agreement  once in 
May 2013 and again in November 2015. It says it wrote to Mr M to give notice on both 
occasions and provided a timeframe in which he could have opted out. 
Mr M complained to Studio in January 2020, when he became aware that the higher rate of 
interest had changed to 54.9% in 2015. He said he never received a letter, or any contact 
from Studio about this increase.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She said Studio had provided a copy of the notice of variation, and system notes 
to show that Mr M was sent a letter about this in November 2015. Based on this, she thought 
the letter was most likely to sent to Mr M. So, even though he said he didnt receive it, she 
didnt think Studio had made an error.
Mr M didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Studio hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mr Ms credit agreement due to the time thats 
passed since he entered into the agreement. However, it has provided me with a sample 
credit agreement that it says wouldve been the same as the agreement given to Mr M.
The sample credit agreement Ive seen makes it clear that the interest rate was variable, and 
that Studio could change it at any time providing it gave sufficient notice. Studio says it wrote 
to Mr M on 5 November 2015 to inform him that the interest rate was going up. It has 
provided a copy of the variation notice and system log of Mr Ms account to show when this 
was sent out.
The variation notice I've seen explained that Mr M could opt-out before 8 January 2016 by 
contacting Studio, where he would be given the following options:1. Pay off the account balance in full and the account will be closed; or
2. Pay off the account balance under your existing terms, however, no additional 
purchases will be allowed at your existing rate and this account will be closed following 
your final payment
3. You can also opt to pay by direct debit.
Mr M says he didnt receive any letter or contact from Studio about the increase. He said he 
only became aware of it more recently, when he discovered that other customers were 
complaining about it. Hes highlighted that Studio has only been able to provide the variation 
notice, and not a copy of the actual letter Studio says it sent him. He says he has been at the 
same address the whole time, so he would have received the letter if it had been sent to him.
Studio says it cant provide copies of the letters that were sent because this was a bulk 
mailing exercise which it outsourced. But it maintains that this was sent to Mr M as per the 
log on the system notes.
Where evidence is contradictory, I need to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
That is, what do I think is more likely to have happened, in light of the available evidence. 
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided. Having done so, I 
think its more likely than not, that the letter was sent to Mr M, at his correct address, on 
5 November 2015  as shown by the system log. 
By sending the letter, and variation notice, I think Studio gave Mr M the required notice of the 
increase  even if he didnt receive it. So, I dont think Studio has made an error. I 
sympathise with Mr M that hes been affected by an increase to his interest rate that he 
wasnt aware of. But because I dont think Studio made an error, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to refund Mr M, or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr Ms complaint against Studio Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman