DRN-3658522
The complaint
Mrs R complains that RAC Insurance Limited unfairly declined her claim on her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) having previously made her believe she was covered.
Any reference to RAC includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs R bought her home insurance policy through a broker. Attached to the home insurance 
policy was LEI. The policy renewed on 2 March 2021. Prior to that date Mrs Rs insurer was 
a company Ill call C. From that date her insurer was RAC. 
Mrs R was employed by a company Ill call E. Mrs R was unhappy with the Es changes to 
the way she worked. Mrs R called RAC for help with her problem. When she completed the 
forms, it sent to her she said the issues started in January 2021.
RAC declined to cover the claim because it considered that the employment problem began 
prior to Mrs R taking out LEI with it. It thought the problem began in January 2021. Mrs R 
disagreed. She thought the problem began in July 2021  so after cover with RAC began. 
She thought that if RAC was right it should have recognised this at the start and referred her 
to C right away, rather than give her months of advice. Having failed to do so, she feels RAC 
should have continued to deal with the claim rather than suddenly abandon her. She also 
complains that RAC said it would pass her file to C and it didnt do so
The investigator looking at the complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He thought that 
the employment problem began in January 2021, so she wasnt covered under the RAC 
policy. He thought that RAC should have noticed this sooner, but he was not able to say that 
RACs error had any effect beyond delaying the referral to C. There was still sufficient time 
for C to assess the claim prior to filing the Employment Tribunal claim. And he thought the 
compensation offered by RAC for its failings was in line with what we would expect.
Mrs R disagreed. She said
If I took a grievance out every time I was humiliated or treated wrong with [E] over 20 years 
then it would have happened several times, the problem was when I was forced into new 
surroundings and a different job title was issued and that was in July RAC took months to 
pick up on this and afterwards I couldnt get any contact with the [C] which isnt my fault, by 
this point it had went too far for me just to return to work.
And she went on to say:
If I looked at all the issues there was then I could go back and say when covid started there 
was issues then, when I got a letter from the doctor to work from home there was issues 
then and these were the same as the issues in January which I believe happens in every 
workplace.
I am meaning the real problem was when the grievance process started and when I needed 
help leading up to that and when I initially started asking for advice. I firmly believe that the 
RAC are responsible for giving that advice all the time they did and not just one person but 
3-4 people and at no time said then the problem started in January until they knew it was 
going to go as far as [a tribunal] and in my view they didnt want to do that and looked for a 
reason to walk away.
I dont believe C had the chance to build a case and also they never returned my calls and 
as [the investigator] pointed out before that the wording from RAC did indicate they had 
passed everything over and thats what I also thought.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make clear that this is a decision about RAC. It is not a decision about C. And I 
wont be looking at any of the points Mrs R has raised about C in this complaint.
I dont think that Mrs Rs claim was covered by her policy with RAC. The word claim is 
defined by the policy as:
an incident which we accept as falling within the terms and policy period of this Home 
Legal Protection policy and which, in our reasonable opinion, is the incident or first in a 
series of incidents that could lead to a claim being made;
Policy period is defined as:
the length of time this policy is in force, from the start date as shown on your schedule.
The start date of Mrs Rs policy is 2 March 2021.
Prior to the start date, Mrs R had been told by E that she would be seconded. I think given 
her circumstances this was sufficient for Mrs R to realise that she might be heading for a 
dispute with her employer and that she may have cause to claim on her LEI. I appreciate 
that Mrs R doesnt agree and thinks that there were lots of incidents in her 20-year 
employment with E that may have caused her to make a claim and that the key point 
happened in July 2021. But I think when she was told about the secondment then she 
should have known that she might be making a claim under her insurance for LEI cover. She 
says that there were incidents prior to January  when the pandemic started and when she 
had to get a letter from her doctor  that were other issues. It might be that if I had more 
information, that I would even say that one of these incidents was the first in the series of 
incidents. What is clear to me though is that prior to taking out her policy with RAC the first in 
a series of incidents that could lead to a claim being made had already occurred and so she 
wasnt covered by RAC.
I can understand Mrs Rs frustration that RAC didnt spot this sooner. RAC has apologised 
for this and paid her £100. Mrs R doesnt think this is good enough. She thinks given the 
time it took and the number of RAC employees involved that it should have offered her 
cover. I dont agree. When a business makes a mistake, we look to see what would have 
happened if the mistake hadnt happened not simply to require cover is given. 
Mrs R has said if RAC hadnt told her she was covered she wouldnt have filed a grievance. 
Having looked at the correspondence between RAC and Mrs R then I dont think RAC did 
tell her she was covered it used words like potentially and may. I think Mrs R persuaded herself that she was covered. I note, for example, that she said to RAC: This policy states I 
am covered. And as Ive explained above that isnt what the policy says. 
What I think RAC did do wrong was that it didnt tell her soon enough that her claim wasnt 
covered under its policy. I think had it told her sooner then her next step would have been to 
go to C. And I dont know what C would have done then. C may or may not have covered the 
claim. There are a number of hurdles to overcome before cover is confirmed and C may 
have, for example, concluded that she didnt have a reasonable prospect of being 
successful. I can say that as a result of RACs failure to inform her she wasnt covered for 
her claim under its policy she wasnt able to approach C earlier. But I cant be certain the 
delay was critical to what happened next. Insurers are used to acting at pace when they 
have to and so I think it was reasonable for RAC to assume that Mrs R could contact C and 
it could review the case in time. Overall, I cant say with any certainty that RACs delays 
affected the outcome for Mrs R.
Mrs R has said that RAC said it would pass all the paperwork to C. The investigator did 
agree that in one letter RAC said something ambiguous about this. But I think looking at the 
correspondence as a whole and particularly given the urgency of the claim, I would have 
expected Mrs R to approach her broker or C and not rely on RAC.
I appreciate this has been a very distressing time for Mrs R and she feels very let down by a 
number of organisations. I am very sorry to hear the effects it has had on her. But looking at 
what RAC has done  whilst I think it could have handled things better and in particular more 
quickly  I think its payment of £100 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it has caused her. So, I wont be directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman