DRN-3734561
The complaint
Mr J has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund him for transactions he didnt make.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr J had his card stolen. He reported this to TSB but they felt  at a minimum  
hed kept his PIN with his card so felt no liability to refund him.
Mr J didnt repay this money to his TSB account and allowed the debt to remain despite him 
closing his account. He tried to get TSB to sort things out in 2019, 2020 and again in 2021. 
In the end TSB finally confirmed they were holding him liable for the fraud but accepted 
theyd made some errors. They paid him £150 in compensation.
Unhappy with this, Mr J brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator got as much evidence as possible from TSB including Mr Js initial phone 
calls about the fraud. She felt there was a discrepancy between what Mr J told us and what 
hed originally told TSB. Overall she wasnt convinced Mr J had been a victim of fraud.
Extremely unhappy with this, Mr J wrote a detailed response and has asked an ombudsman 
to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Js complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Js case other than those factors I mention below.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr J have told us.
Im in no doubt Mr J must be extremely upset this has dragged on so long. I can see a letter 
from TSB in 2020 which suggests everything was resolved and giving Mr J £25 
compensation. Unfortunately banks tend to use the word resolved when reviewing 
complaints. This doesnt mean the resolution will be in the customers favour. I can 
appreciate how confusing this must seem.
I also appreciate the points Mr J has raised about relying on police evidence before TSB will 
investigate his fraud. He is right here too. Mr J has no influence over whether police will 
investigate or progress his fraud claim. The key thing I believe  and nobody disputes this  
is that Mr J reported what happened to the police as TSB advised. TSB has confirmed to us 
their policy is to advise customers to raise complaints with police when theyve told them 
they dont intend to reimburse the customer. I think this is what happened here. Phone 
conversations between TSB and Mr J confirm this.
I do find it odd that Mr J didnt tell TSB immediately that hed been mugged and threatened 
to confirm his PIN. Mr J has told us hed been traumatised and just wasnt really sure what 
had happened.
He told TSB after theyd confirmed they wouldnt treat the transactions as fraud and that the 
genuine card and PIN had been used that perhaps the PIN was written on the card. There 
was adequate opportunity for Mr J to have told TSB what he thinks happened at the time. Its 
inevitable  despite accepting that recollections can be missed  that the inconsistencies 
here lead us to certain conclusions.
I think its unlikely Mr J would need to note his PIN on his card. His bank history shows 
regular card use (with PIN) so  particularly as the card used for these disputed transactions 
was recently provided  I think its most likely the PIN wasnt on the card.
Ive considered whether it was likely that Mr J lost or just mislaid his card  he did have a 
history of this as I can see itd not been long since hed last been given a card replacement. 
However I cant see how an unknown third party would have known Mr Js PIN.
I accept its possible Mr J may well have been mugged. However I believe its more likely 
that for whatever reason Mr J allowed someone else to use his card. He may well have then 
regretted this but because of the inconsistencies in his story, I have come to this conclusion 
on balance.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Js complaint against TSB Bank 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman