DRN-3170128
The complaint
F is a limited company and represented by its directors. They complain that M & D H 
Insurance Services Ltd (MDH) failed to provide a timely continuation of Professional 
Indemnity Insurance (PII) cover.
What happened
Fs PII was due to renew around the start of April 2021. The directors expected MDH to 
provide suitable policies at reasonable prices. 
MDH first contacted F in early February and received a reply in mid-February. At that point 
MDH was informed that F had sold the business and only required run-off cover. MDH 
initiated contact with a provider who sent a proposal form for completion around a week 
later. F returned this to MDH with it being received on 5 March. MDH initiated a full market 
review in search of policies but was unable to find an insurer willing to offer a policy. It 
chased replies about renewals from intermediaries it used but these didnt come through 
until the end of March. MDH secured extension of cover periods while searching the market 
for a policy. Eventually one non-UK based insurer offered terms. MDH reviewed the terms, 
clarified an exclusion would be removed and sent F these terms on 15 April, which F 
accepted. Its apparent that over 20 insurers refused to offer a policy.
F thinks MDH should have been able to get cover in a timelier manner, at a cheaper price 
and with a UK Regulated insurer. Instead, F says its paid around £10,000 more than it 
reasonably should have, and the insurer is based outside the UK.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
MDHs role was to source the insurance policy, but it was for individual insurers to decide 
whether to offer cover and at what price. He was satisfied MDH did everything it reasonably 
could to find a policy and get answers at renewal. He didnt think MDH had handled the 
renewal unfairly or with unreasonable delays. The investigator pointed out that F had signed 
a document acknowledging the new insurer was outside the UK and if it had been a 
requirement for F that the insurer was UK based, he didnt think F would have accepted the 
policy.
Fs directors disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint concerns the time taken to secure policy renewal, and secondary 
to that the price and the insurer being outside the UK.
I am satisfied that MDH took all reasonable steps to find a policy that was suitable for F. The 
timeline demonstrates to my satisfaction that MDH used best endeavours to find a policy 
through an open market review. MDH chased replies from the intermediary for an update on 
policy offers but its clear that many insurers were simply not willing to offer terms. Run-off 
cover, which is what F required, was different to that which F had previously, so it wasnt a 
simple like-for-like renewal. Insurers make their own decisions about whether to offer a 
policy and unfortunately none that responded to MDHs searches were so willing. MDH set 
out clearly the range of businesses and reasons why insurers refused to offer cover. Im not 
persuaded it could reasonably have done more.
The price of the one insurance policy offered may well have been more than Fs directors 
were happy with, but it was seemingly the only insurer willing to offer insurance. The price 
the insurer offered is not something MDH has any control over. And the fact the insurer is 
apparently outside UK regulation is again something I dont hold MDH responsible for. MDH 
sent a document to Fs directors (one of whom signed and returned it) clearly detailing that 
the insurer was based outside UK and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the 
relevant jurisdiction. The document also included information that the insurer wasnt subject 
to governance in the UK; and there was no protection under the FSCS scheme. While I 
appreciate F may have felt there was no other option but to accept the cover, Im not 
persuaded MDH could have reasonably done more. 
F stated to MDH that it intended to source its own cover and cancel the one MDH had 
arranged. MDH set out how this could be done with a date for F to confirm of 14 May at 
which point MDH would give a full refund. Im satisfied that was a fair way to deal with the 
matter. 
In summary, Im satisfied MDH carried out extensive searches for an insurer willing to offer 
renewal terms; it had no influence over the price the insurer wanted to charge; and it clearly 
gave information about the insurer such that F could make an informed choice.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman