DRN-2596408
The complaint
Mr F complains about the price he was quoted by BUPA Insurance Limited for a private 
medical insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that BUPA wouldnt cover treatment that had 
been authorised under a group scheme.
What happened
Mr F was covered under his employers group private medical insurance scheme with BUPA. 
He needed surgery for a medical condition, which BUPA authorised. Unfortunately, that 
surgery was delayed due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr F intended to retire and leave the group scheme. He asked BUPA for a quote for 
continuation cover on an individual policy. BUPA gave Mr F a quote, but he was unhappy 
with the amount. He thought it was unfair for BUPA to take into account his pre-existing 
condition. 
After Mr F had left the group scheme, he had the surgery and paid for this himself. He 
complained to this service about the price BUPA had quoted him for an individual policy. He 
also thought it had been unreasonable for BUPA not to cover the surgery that it had 
authorised, as the delay to the surgery had been outside his control.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BUPA had been 
entitled to decide the cost of the new policy, and to take into account Mr Fs pre-existing 
condition. Our investigator didnt think BUPA had acted unreasonably by not covering the 
surgery it had previously authorised, as Mr F was no longer covered by the group scheme 
when he had the surgery.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has explained that because Mr F had treatment planned or pending, this increased 
the cost of the quote. Insurers are free to decide what risks to insure, and how much to 
charge for covering those risks. When someone has treatment planned, the likelihood of that 
person claiming under the policy is higher than someone who has no treatment planned. 
This had a direct impact on the quote, and this would be the case for anyone applying for the 
policy. I dont think BUPA treated Mr F unfairly here.
Mr F is also unhappy that BUPA wouldnt cover the cost of his surgery, even though this had 
been authorised whilst he was covered under the group scheme.
Mr F has provided a letter from his specialist written in June 2020. His specialist explained 
that Mr F had been added to the waiting list for surgery, but the Covid-19 situation meant 
that he wouldnt be able to arrange this as quickly as he normally would. The specialist 
thought that if it hadnt been for Covid-19, Mr F wouldve already had his surgery.
The policy terms make it clear that treatment isnt covered if it takes place after cover ends. 
So Im satisfied that BUPA acted in line with the policy terms when it refused to cover the 
cost of Mr Fs surgery, as he wasnt covered under the group scheme at that time.
Its very unfortunate that Mr Fs surgery was delayed. Due to the unusual and 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and the pressure this was 
putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately funded treatment were 
utilised by the NHS for treatment. This meant BUPA policyholders werent able to access 
routine and non-urgent treatment. Im satisfied that this was outside of BUPAs control.
However, if Mr Fs treatment were urgent, then I mightve expected BUPA to make other 
arrangements for this whilst he was still covered by the group scheme. 
I understand that Mr F was experiencing pain as a result of his condition. His specialist had 
given him the option of conservative management or surgery, and Mr F had opted for 
surgery. Though Mr F says that his GP and specialist had told him that he wouldnt be able 
to have the surgery under the NHS and would only be able to do so if his condition worsened 
and became an emergency (he accepts this wasnt the case). Taking all of this into account, 
I think its fair to say that Mr Fs surgery wasnt urgent in nature. So I dont think BUPA 
needed to make alternative arrangements for Mr Fs surgery after it became aware that it 
had been delayed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman