DRN-4275798
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) decided to change the 
formatting of their bank statements.
What happened
Earlier this year, Ms R noticed that the design of her bank statements had changed. She 
complained that the new format was completely illegible due to the size of the font, layout 
being greyed and the font colour also being grey. 
NatWest explained that it was their decision to change the bank statement design. They 
confirmed theyd recorded Ms Rs comments in their system and thanked her for providing 
feedback. They explained they couldnt change the layout of Ms Rs statement but made 
arrangements to increase the font size.
Ms R remained unhappy and reiterated her complaint. She asked NatWest to change their 
statement design back, to be legible to all. She explained she was seriously concerned for 
most customers. She said bank statements arent just for her personal use but also for her 
accountants, lawyers etc. She felt it was against the law to present these statements. 
NatWest said theyd implemented the change to their bank statements to bring a more 
modern fresh look, in addition to cost savings for them and the environmental benefits due to 
a reduction in paper and envelopes used for customers who wanted to continue to use paper 
statements. They explained that it was the start of their process to simplify statements and 
make them easier to amend in response to regulatory change. They informed Mrs R that she 
could request a larger print statement and audio version.
Mrs C referred her concerns to our service. She explained she wanted NatWest to revise 
their bank statements nationally. She said that the bank statements have had a serious 
impact on the health of her eyes. 
Our investigator said she didnt think NatWest made an error when updating the design of 
their bank statements as it was for them to decide on the layout. She felt they were within 
their rights to change the design of their statements and our service couldnt tell them to 
redesign it. She said that NatWest had made arrangements to increase the font size for Ms 
R and also confirmed they could offer an audio version of the statements. 
Ms R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She felt that by law it 
was NatWests responsibility to produce legible statements to the general public. She 
reiterated that their current design of grey on grey needs to be altered and explained this 
wont cost them anything to change. She said that NatWest were sending her two sets of 
statements, one with normal font and another with a larger font, which was wasting paper 
and not sustainable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at a copy of Ms Rs bank statement with the new design. I can see the 
transactions are set out in a table with each line alternating between a white and grey 
background. The font colour of the text is grey. While I appreciate Ms R feels this is illegible, 
I dont think the design of the statement is unreasonable. 
In any case, NatWest are entitled to make commercial decisions on how they carry out their 
day-to-day business. This includes their decision to change the design of their bank 
statements.
Im satisfied NatWests decision to change the formatting of their bank statements is a 
legitimate use of their commercial judgement. And as an informal service, we cant tell banks 
like NatWest, how to operate their business more broadly or interfere with their policy 
decisions. This is the role of the financial service regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority.
Ms Rs complaint doesnt appear to be about how the change of bank statement designs 
have impacted her solely. Instead, shes asked for a national systemic change to benefit all 
users of NatWests bank statements. I think itd be helpful to clarify that when reaching my 
decision, I can only consider the individual circumstances of Ms Rs complaint and not that of 
other users.
Focussing on Ms Rs complaint specifically, I think NatWest have treated her fairly. They 
explained to Ms R the reasons behind making the change to the look of their bank 
statements. They also noted Ms Rs feedback on how the bank statements should be 
improved. They explained that they couldnt change the layout of the bank statements but 
arranged to increase the font size on Ms Rs bank statements as shes found the font to be 
too small. Theyve also made Ms R aware of her options including requesting larger print 
and audio version of her bank statements. These are reasonable steps Id expect NatWest 
to take under the circumstances.
I know Ms R feels strongly about her complaint and I hope NatWest take on board feedback 
shes given. But as explained already, NatWest arent obliged to make the changes shes 
suggested with the design and layout as theyre within their rights to exercise their 
commercial judgement. 
NatWest have already arranged a larger font size for Ms R which I hope has addressed her 
concerns about the font size. However, if she needs any other reasonable adjustments, she 
should speak to NatWest directly about her options.
Ms R is also unhappy that NatWest are sending her duplicate statements  one of normal 
font size and another larger font size as this wastes paper and isnt sustainable. This issue 
isnt part of the initial complaint Ms R raised with our service so I cant consider this aspect 
within my decision here.
If Ms R wishes to pursue this matter, she will need to complain to NatWest about it first and 
give them an opportunity to respond. Ms R can then complain to our service if she remains 
unhappy with NatWests response or if they dont provide a final response letter within eight 
weeks from raising a complaint with them. Overall, having considered everything, Im satisfied NatWest have treated Ms R fairly and I 
wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman