DRN-2329426
The complaint
Mr K complains that due to a fault with its on-line system, and it not having a working 
helpline, Legal and General Assurance (Pensions Management) Limited (L&G) didnt 
complete his fund switch when he wanted it to, meaning he lost out financially.
What happened
Mr K had a personal pension with L&G. He wanted to be able to switch the funds online so 
registered with L&Gs Manage Your Account (MYA) in March 2020.
Mr K says he found the switch functionality of MYA wasnt working on 25 March 2020. He 
called the helpline on 26 & 27 March 2020 to log the fault, but the line was closed. He tried 
to call again on 2 April 2020 as he wanted to switch his funds, but was again unable to get 
through.
On 11 April 2020 Mr K messaged L&G using the secure message function within MYA, 
requesting to switch his cash funds into equity funds. He also complained that he had been 
unable to switch his funds earlier so had lost money, and that the fees he was charged didnt 
reflect the poor service he received.
In its final response letter, L&G said it completed his fund switch on 14 April, which was the 
first working day after it had received his MYA secure message. It said it wouldnt backdate it 
any earlier than this as it hadnt known he wanted to switch prior to his secure message on 
11 April. It said it was sorry its helpline wasnt working at the time, but their office had been 
closed due to Covid 19 and it had to move its people to home-working, so there was a delay 
in getting the help-line working. But it agreed that it hadnt explained the technical fault to the 
MYA on its website, and this wasnt acceptable. It offered £150 in compensation for the 
inconvenience this had caused him.
Mr K didnt accept this. He complained to our service that he had wanted to switch his funds 
earlier than 11 April, but had been unable to do so due to the technical fault and the 
helplines being closed. He thought the switch should be backdated to 2 April.
Our investigator didnt agree with Mr K. She thought that although both the fund-switch 
function within MYA and the helpline were unavailable to him, there were two other means of 
communication open. He could have emailed L&G, or used the secure message function, 
both of which were working. And because the first time L&G was aware that he wanted to 
switch his funds was on 11 April, it was fair and reasonable for it to complete the switch on 
the first working day after this. And she thought the £150 offered in compensation for the 
inconvenience he was caused was fair.
Mr K disagreed. He said L&G had failed in its duty of care to him in not having effective 
contingency plans to deal with the pandemic, and so he had lost approximately £8,500 in 
investment gains that would have occurred had he been able to switch on 2 April. And L&Gs 
performance didnt reflect the fees he paid it. He also compared L&Gs performance with 
another financial institution during this time, and said the others was faultless. So he didnt 
think £150 compensation was sufficient. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said L&G should have had effective contingency plans in place to deal with the 
pandemic. When lockdown was announced in March 2020 at very short notice, businesses 
had to quickly adapt. These were unprecedented times for everyone. Phone lines being 
unavailable or reduced service hours being offered for a limited number of days whilst staff 
were moved to working from home isnt unreasonable if there were alternative ways to make 
contact. Its disappointing that the phone lines were unavailable, but as Ill explain below, Im 
satisfied that Mr K was able to contact L&G through other means throughout this period.
There are several points which are not in dispute:
the fund-switch functionality of MYP wasnt working.
L&G was aware of the fault but didnt update its website to give advice to its 
customers who were affected.
L&Gs helpline was closed due to the corona virus pandemic from 25 March until 2 
April.
What I need to decide is whether I think L&G have acted fairly in their decision to complete 
the fund switch on 14 April, and not backdate it to 2 April as Mr K has asked for, and whether 
£150 is sufficient compensation for the inconvenience L&G caused him.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but Im satisfied L&G have acted fairly and 
reasonably here, and I wont ask them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Had there been no way of contacting L&G during this time, I would agree that this would 
have been unfair. But there was functionality within MYP to send a secure message (as Mr K 
did on 11 April) and he also could have sent an email. And the automated message played 
when the help-line was closed directed customers to its website, which included the MYP 
secure message system.
Mr K says that when he called on 2 April and was unable to get through, he was intending to 
request the fund switch at that point. Now I have no reason to doubt this, but when he 
couldnt speak to someone there was always the secure message function to use should he 
wish, and its likely that L&G would have followed his request up, as it did following his 
message on 11 April. 
L&Gs helpline was opened later on 2 April, but due to a very distressing personal event, 
Mr K didnt contact L&G again until 11 April, via the secure message system, to request the 
fund switch. While I feel a great deal of sympathy for him, and due to his personal 
circumstance I understand why he didnt try again until 11 April, I cant fairly say L&G should 
backdate the fund switch to 2 April as it didnt know he wanted to do it at that point. And the 
help-line was open from 2 April, along with the email and secure message system, so Mr K 
could have instructed it earlier than he did. And L&G actioned the fund-switch on the first 
working day after it received his instruction to do so. So, Im satisfied L&G has acted fairly 
when it completed the fund-switch on 14 April.
In relation to the £150 compensation offered, I understand it is frustrating when a service 
provided by a business doesnt work, and I would expect this to be reflected in any compensation offered. And L&G has acknowledged it should have updated its website 
explaining there was a fault and what customers could do. But L&G did have alternative 
methods for its customers to contact it if they needed to, and Mr K had these available 
through MYP. So Im satisfied £150 is fair and in line with what our organisation would 
expect. I wont be requiring L&G to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman