DRN-3057400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way that UK Insurance limited, trading as Direct Line 
(UKI), has settled their travel insurance claim.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a trip to visit several Southeast Asian countries over 
a period of three weeks. They booked this through a tour company who made arrangements 
such as accommodation, internal transfers and a cruise, along with some sightseeing tours. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs W purchased flights using an airline points scheme, booked airport 
parking for the duration of their trip and purchased visas for their travel. Mr and Mrs W 
travelled from the UK in early March 2020.
Four days into their trip, Mr and Mrs W were held in quarantine at their hotel on local 
government orders as a result of the escalating situation with the Covid-19 pandemic. They 
remained in the hotel for a number of days before they were allowed to leave. When they 
were released, they were advised to return back to the UK. Mr and Mrs W were able to 
amend the date on their original return flight to come home early, however, they did incur 
some additional expenses, including flights to make their connection back to the UK, some 
meals at the hotel during the quarantine period and mobile phone charges to make these 
arrangements. Upon their return, Mr and Mrs W made a claim to UKI for the full cost of their 
trip, along with the additional expenses incurred.
UKI initially declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim, saying that they should claim their expenses 
back from the tour company. However, it reconsidered the claim and agreed to pay for the 
additional travel costs and the unused proportion of their trip, including the unused part of 
the tour and car parking in the UK, along with unused visas. But UKI said that there wasnt 
any cover for the parts of the trip that Mr and Mrs W had already used, including the outward 
and return flights. It also refused to pay for the additional meals and call charges. UKI 
agreed to pay a total of £375 for poor service and delays in handling of the claim.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs W complained to UKI and brought the complaint to 
our service. They said the policy wording didnt state there wasnt cover for used costs and 
that, whilst there was a list of the types of things included in the cover, it didnt say these 
were the only costs which would be reimbursed. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed that the policy was poorly worded, 
but she didnt think this meant UKI was agreeing to cover for all costs, whether used or 
unused. And as there wasnt any mention of cover for call charges, she said UKI didnt need 
to cover these expenses. In relation to the meals, our investigator said Mr and Mrs W would 
have needed to buy food wherever they were, so she didnt agree this cost should be 
reimbursed. She also considered the compensation UKI paid for the poor service and found 
that the amount offered was reasonable, taking into account what had happened.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about this matter and Im aware that they have 
raised a number of issues when bringing this complaint to our service. But it is important to 
point out that were an informal and impartial dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs W. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. UKI has now settled some of the claim - so the 
circumstances surrounding the curtailment of the trip are not in dispute. But what I need to 
consider is if UKI has acted reasonably by not reimbursing all the costs claimed for by 
Mr and Mrs W.
The policy Mr and Mrs W held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
The relevant parts are as follows:
Cutting short a journey (curtailment)
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or 
legally have to pay if you have to cut your trip short, including:
unused accommodation and travel
unused car hire
a maximum of £150 for each insured person for unused pre-booked excursions 
that you have to cancel before they begin on the advice of a doctor because you 
or your travelling companion is seriously injured or seriously ill while on your trip
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel if you have to return 
home early and you cannot use your return tickets
the cost of replacing used points or miles if you booked your flight or 
accommodation using Avios or a similar promotional scheme, or a cash 
equivalent
reasonable extended parking, kennel or cattery costs you have to pay if you have 
to remain abroad as a result of your illness or injury. 
UKI has agreed to cover the unused proportion of the trip and it has also paid for additional 
travel costs Mr and Mrs W incurred. Mr and Mrs W argue that the policy doesnt say it wont 
provide cover for those parts of the trip that they were able to use  they say the list isnt 
exhaustive as it doesnt refer to it being limited just to those costs detailed.
 
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws submissions about the policy wording. When making 
my decision Ive taken into account a number of relevant considerations  including the law  
but my overriding remit is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Having read through the policy terms and conditions, I accept Mr and Mrs Ws point that the 
wording could be clearer in parts. But it would be unfair of me to ask UKI to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs W for those parts of the trip they were able to use. This is because travel insurance is generally provided on an indemnity basis, which means it is designed to put 
people back into the financial position they were in prior to the loss. If UKI was to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs W for the used portion of the trip, they would effectively be in a better financial 
position as they would be in receipt of a refund whilst also having the benefit of utilising 
those aspects. While I fully appreciate Mr and Mrs W clearly didnt utilise the flights and hotel 
in the way they would have expected when they booked their trip, travel insurance policies 
dont cover loss of enjoyment and these aspects of the trip have been used so there is no 
financial loss to them.
Mr and Mrs W want to claim for some of the meals they had to pay for in the hotel during 
their isolation. As it would be necessary for Mr and Mrs W to eat during their trip anyway, 
these costs are not something that would usually be considered as unusual or additional. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs W have suggested this was a fully inclusive tour, but from reviewing 
the itinerary it seems to suggest that this was not the case every day and so they would 
have had to purchase some meals. Therefore, Im not persuaded that UKI has acted 
unreasonably when excluding this cost from the settlement.
And in relation to the call charges, whilst the policy doesnt specifically exclude this cost, Im 
satisfied that, if UKI intended to provide cover for such expenditure it would have included 
this in the policy. These arent costs which Id usually expect to see covered under a travel 
insurance policy. As the policy doesnt stipulate it will cover these costs, I wont be asking 
UKI to consider this aspect of the claim.
Turning now to the general handling of the claim, Mr and Mrs W say they have always been 
the ones chasing for updates on their claim and that UKI asked them to provide evidence on 
aspects of the claim which it then didnt cover. UKI has acknowledged it has made mistakes, 
not only in relation to delays but also in the way it has dealt with Mr and Mrs Ws claim  
asking for information which wasnt necessary, not returning calls and not keeping them 
informed. It has apologised and made two payments, totalling £375, in recognition of the 
poor service. Having looked through this complaint it is clear that UKI has made a number of 
mistakes which Im sure have been incredibly frustrating for Mr and Mrs W. But UKI has 
apologised for these errors and Im satisfied that the amount it has offered in compensation 
is reasonable for what has happened in this case. I therefore dont require UKI to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, but for the reasons mentioned 
above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman