DRN-3907742
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined her travel 
insurance claim. Shes also unhappy with the service provided by Great Lakes during the 
claims process. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss D had to pay for an additional one night of accommodation as her train for an 
onward journey was cancelled due to a storm. Her claim is for this additional cost. 
Having looked at the cover she has with Great Lakes, Miss D doesnt have the 
extended cover on her travel policy under the Travel Disruption section. 
Ive carefully considered Miss Ds policy and it clearly sets out what is and isnt 
covered. The extended section of the policy wasnt purchased by Miss D and 
therefore she has no cover for the additional nights accommodation.
Great Lakes nevertheless paid Miss D £40 towards the additional expense, but it 
says this was done in error. So, for the delays caused and poor service provided, it 
paid Miss D a further £60 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. While I 
agree the error in the payment made by Great Lakes confirms poor service, the 
overall payment made by Great Lakes of £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Great Lakes didnt ask for the £40 to be paid back but instead paid an additional £60 
to make a total of £100 compensation. Overall, for what happened, this is fair and 
reasonable. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the claim was declined in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And the £100 compensation is fair and reasonable 
great lakes
I therefore dont require Great Lakes to do anything further.
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Ds frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman