DRN-4024441
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H applied for and received a loan of £3,000. It was to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments 
of £204.24. He says the loan was unaffordable for him and caused financial hardship as a 
result. He says Everyday should have refused to lend to him. 
Everyday looked into his complaint. It explained it had followed its usual processes which 
included a credit search, obtaining two months bank statements, one months payslip and an 
employment check. It said the loan was drawn to clear Mr Hs credit cards and pay a 
solicitors fee. Everyday said it believed the loan was affordable at the time and noted Mr H 
had repaid the loan in full nine months later. It rejected his complaint.   
Mr H was unhappy with Everydays response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt Everyday ought to have identified from the 
checks it did, that the loan was unsustainable for Mr H. For example, he noted the two 
months bank statements Mr H had provided as part of his application, showed hed taken 
three payday loans in that time. Our investigator said what it should do to put matters right.
Mr H accepted what our investigator said but Everyday didnt. It said, in summary, that the 
loan was taken to consolidate Mr Hs payday loans which would have assisted him with his 
budget. It pointed out that the bank statements didnt show any returned direct debits or fees 
and he had no defaults or County Court Judgements (CCJs) on his credit file. As there was 
no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Everyday needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr H irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Everyday had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about Everyday assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him. There is 
no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different things 
such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the 
overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H was in 
a position to sustainably repay the loan?
Everyday appears to have asked Mr H for lots of information to enable it to complete a good 
assessment of his financial situation. As mentioned earlier, this included a payslip, bank 
statements, credit reference and employment checks. I think this information is sufficient for 
Everyday to have carried out the reasonable and proportionate checks its obliged to do. 
Did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
Having obtained information sufficient for a reasonable and proportionate check, Everyday 
had to consider what it found as a result. In this instance, I can see inconsistencies between 
some of the information considered by Everyday and that contained in the paperwork. 
Mr Hs marital status is shown on the application as S  presumably single. But the 
application has been assessed using a joint income of £2,667. The two payslips Mr H has 
provided show an income of £1,910 and £2,145  significantly lower than the figure relied on 
by Everyday. The bank statement provided only shows the higher of the two payments, but 
also shows three payday loans referred to by our investigator, totalling £1,500. 
To calculate Mr Hs expenditure, Everyday used a formula of 35% of his net monthly income 
as his personal expenditure. It says this was widely regarded as a national average. But it 
had Mr Hs expenditure available to it from his bank statements so it could have made more 
precise calculations. Furthermore, Im not persuaded that using a national average is 
reasonable here. Everyday specialises in lending to people who have impaired credit ratings 
and, in my experience, are unlikely to have expenditure in line with averages. 
Everyday said in its final response that the purpose of the loan was to repay credit cards and 
a solicitors fee. His credit file shows he had £2,421 outstanding on his credit cards, so this 
would make sense. But in its response to our investigators opinion of this complaint, it said 
the loan was to repay the payday loans. It cant have been both. Ive asked Everyday to 
clarify the purpose, but it hasnt responded. Ive therefore assumed its first answer  the 
credit cards  was correct. 
Mr H had other credit outstanding too. He had a guarantor loan, a mail order account and 
a hire purchase agreement. Payments to those come to just over £600 per month. With 
the £204 payment required to this new loan, his credit repayments would be in excess of 
£800 per month. On top of that, Mr H had taken the payday loans Ive already referred to 
which needed to be repaid.
As part of its file, Everyday has provided a loan checklist which was completed at the 
time. I can see that whoever completed it wrote why payday loans and balances which 
shows the loans were noted. But there is no answer to the question. 
So it seems to me that while Everyday gathered the information it required to make a 
reasonable and proportionate check, it didnt properly consider the information it received. 
I cant see how Everyday thought the loan would be repayable on a sustainable basis.  I 
think it ought to have identified that Mr H was struggling financially  hence the payday loans so recently taken  and concluded that his situation was such that this new loan 
could not be repaid sustainably. I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend.
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided by each party to this complaint. Having 
done so, I dont think Everyday has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some 
other way. But I do think Everyday should have refused to lend to Mr H, so I am upholding 
his complaint about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr H in the 
position he would be in now if he hadnt been given the loan. But Mr H was given the loan, 
used the money and has already repaid it including interest due under the agreement.
So, I think Everyday should:
Calculate the total amount Mr H received from Everyday and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr H having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding this loan.
*If Everyday considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr H as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 July 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman