DRN-2929110
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt fairly settled an escape of water claim 
he made under his Landlord premier insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L rents out a property which is managed by a letting agent. In March 2019 while carrying 
out a routine inspection of the property, the tenant reported damp and water ingress. 
The agent arranged for the property to be inspected. Initial findings by a surveyor were 
reported to the insurer, Allianz and a claim was made. 
Allianz arranged for a loss adjuster (LA) to visit the property. In April 2019 Allianz rejected 
the claim as it said no insured event had caused the damage, but there were various issues 
and causes of the damage. 
Mr L arranged for works to commence urgently to the property. On stripping out the property, 
his surveyor discovered the main underground pipe to the property was leaking water and 
causing significant damage. 
Allianzs surveyor revisited the property in September 2019, when the majority of the works 
had been completed. 
In October 2019 Allianz said it would meet part of the claim for the damage to the front of the 
property caused by the underground pipe and loss of rent for the duration of these works 
only by way of a cash settlement. But it wouldnt cover that which it felt was caused by dry 
rot, on account of that being excluded. 
Mr L complained to Allianz and in December 2019 it said the settlement offer was fair. It 
acknowledged that the LA had caused delays in dealing with the claim on Allianzs behalf. 
For this it offered Mr L £300 compensation. Mr L says he hasnt accepted or received this. 
In April 2020 Mr L asked us to look at his complaint. He explained that the costs of the works 
came to over £108,000. He said between June 2019 and August 2019 his agent contacted 
the LA with updates from the surveyor while the works were progressing and asked them to 
visit the property to appreciate the extent of the damage  but they failed to engage at all 
during this time. Mr L says by the time the LA visited the property, most of the works had 
been completed, the new floors had been put down, and so it was impossible for them to 
properly assess the claim. 
Mr L wants Allianz to cover his claim in full. 
Our investigator thought Allianz should meet the claim in full, based on key findings from 
their LA that the main cause of damage including dry rot and fungus most likely came from 
the burst underground pipe. She didnt think it fair for Allianz to apply an exclusion for 
damage caused by dry rot as it appeared to be caused by the insured event. 
The investigator recommended Allianz meet the costs of Mr Ls claim including his claim for 
loss of rent  as the tenants had to move out while the works were being carried out. 
Allianz didnt agree. It says multiple events were identified as contributing factors. It accepts 
that part of the damage was caused by an escape of water from the pipe, but damage 
caused by dry rot - which was a contributory cause - isnt covered. Allianz says it is prepared 
to work with Mr Ls surveyor to establish the extent of the water damage and honour that 
part of the claim.
Mr L accepted the investigators findings. 
As Allianz didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has accepted theres a valid claim for an escape of water, so Ive gone on to consider 
whether limiting that claim to only the front of the house is fair. 
Under its general exclusions Allianz says it will not pay for damage caused by wear and 
tear, gradual deterioration, rusting, corrosion, wet rot, dry rot, rising damp or mould.
The managing agent reported the lifting of the floor in the front living room and water ingress 
from the rear doors. 
Initial findings from Mr Ls surveyor in March 2019 suspected an outbreak of dry rot fungus . 
His external observations were that there was an issue with a gulley from a neighbouring 
property which could be a likely cause of water ingress, although the neighbouring down 
pipe didnt enter the gulley. 
He found some airbricks at the front of the property were blocked and below ground level. 
In April 2019 the LA appointed by Allianz visited the property and reiterated the initial 
findings of Mr Ls surveyor. On this basis, Allianz rejected Mr Ls claim as no insured event 
had occurred, but damage had been caused over time due to multiple events and wear and 
tear. It said it didnt provide cover for damage caused by dry rot. 
Mr Ls surveyor provided an updated report following strip out works on 31 May 2019 and 27 
June 2019. Excavation of the ground floor covering led to the discovery of several large 
cracks along the main underground pipe through the property being the cause of the escape 
of water. 
Fungal decay to internal timber work and high moisture levels were recorded throughout the 
downstairs of the property. Dampness and deterioration was identified in the areas where 
the floor was lifting and where the initial damage was identified. There was evidence of dry 
rot under the front lounge floor. The surveyor said it was most likely the underground pipe 
leak was the main cause of the initial damage identified. 
Damage to the rear of the property was identified as being caused by wet rot decay to timber 
joists below the flooring. The entire flooring of downstairs had to be removed and replaced as well as the damaged 
underground pipe. 
Although Allianz policy clearly says it excludes cover for gradual operating causes and wet 
and dry rot, we take a fair and reasonable approach and consider what a customer could 
have reasonably been aware of. The LA reported:
Also following removal of the floor within the hallway, they (Mr Ls surveyor) 
identified that a mains lead water pipe had split below the front door threshold and 
mains water had been penetrating into this area over a period of time. It has been 
impossible to identify how long the mains water would have been leaking but it is 
very likely that this should not have been identifiable by the tenant or the Insured 
since the water would have gone down into the subfloor. There was no evidence of 
any dampness in this area above floor level.
If we think a consumer shouldnt (or shouldnt reasonably) have been aware of damage 
happening gradually  and that they made the claim, or took reasonable action, as soon as 
they became aware  were likely to say that a fair and reasonable outcome is that the 
insurer cant rely on the exclusion and should pay the claim. This is because the consumer 
couldnt have done anything to stop the damage getting worse and so it seems unfair to lose 
out because of the exclusion. 
Allianz says it is prepared to meet the part of the claim for damage caused by the escape of 
water to the front of the house caused by the leaking underground pipe. In December 2019 it 
asked Mr L to arrange for a schedule of works from his surveyor detailing and separating the 
damage. 
However, Ive considered the fact that between June and August 2019 Mr Ls agent provided 
regular updates to the LA and asked them to visit the property urgently due to the significant 
developments and extent of the damage. But the LA failed to respond despite being chased 
on many occasions during this time. When Mr L said he intended to raise a complaint, the 
LA arranged a visit to the property in September 2019. But by this time most of the works 
had been completed. Mr Ls tenants were paying to live in alternative accommodation, so Mr 
L wasnt receiving rent while the works were being carried out. I think he did all he could to 
mitigate his losses. And I think the LA was given multiple opportunities to assess the works 
at the time as they were promptly notified of the escalation of the damage at each stage. 
Ive also considered the following key comment from the LAs report in October 2019 
following their visit: 
It is our opinion that the main cause of the damage and the moisture that would 
cause the forming of the dry rot and fungus spores is most probably as a result of the 
mains water leak which has been ongoing for a period of time. It would be impossible 
to identify how long this pipe has been leaking for.
So based on all of the information available, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Allianz to 
meet only part of the costs of Mr Ls claim. I think it should meet the costs in full. This is 
because key findings from both the LA and Mr Ls surveyor show the most likely cause of the 
dry rot damage was due to the escape of water Allianz has accepted the claim for. 
Allianz should also reconsider Mr Ls claim for loss of rent in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy, based on the duration of the total works. 
I think the service provided by Allianzs agent between June and August 2019 was poor and 
caused Mr L considerable inconvenience at a time when he and his agent needed to proceed with major works. This went ahead, but without the engagement of the insurers 
agent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to do the 
following:
meet the full costs of Mr Ls claim. Subject to proof of payment, it should pay 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment to the 
date of reimbursement. Allianz can deduct any partial settlement its already paid 
from the balance. 
Consider Mr Ls claim for loss of rent for the full duration of time for the works to 
be completed. 
Pay Mr L £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused if it hasnt already 
paid it. 
Allianz Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman