DRN-2802533
Complaint
Mrs N has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
The PPI was sold to Mrs N during a telephone conversation in 2000, after taking out her 
store card in 1996. The PPI covered her in the event she was off work due to illness or lost 
her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 24 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Mrs N and AXA an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what 
I said:
Mrs N says she didnt agree to the PPI and it was added without her knowledge. AXA, on 
the other hand, says the PPI was sold during a telephone call and it would have gained her 
consent before adding it to Mrs Ns store card. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to 
provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time of the sale. This isnt 
surprising given the sale took place over 20 years ago. Therefore, I dont know what was 
said to Mrs N when the policy was sold. So Ive had to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened at the time of the sale. 
It looks like Mrs N initially applied for her store card without PPI, and AXA phoned her a few 
years later to sell her a policy. Following that call, a policy was added to her store card. At 
the time of sale, Mrs N already had use of her card for some time before the PPI was added 
to it, so I think its likely she would have known she didnt have to have PPI with her card. 
Mrs N also would have started paying for the PPI from December 2000 onwards. Had the 
PPI been added to her card without her knowledge, I would have thought shed question the 
additional charges sooner than she did. Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case to 
make me think the policy was added without Mrs Ns agreement. Instead, I think its more 
likely than not Mrs N agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. It was up to Mrs N to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs N.
Mrs N has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by three 
months statutory sick pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told 
us she had assets and a share portfolio which she could sell to help cover her store card 
repayments if she was unable to work. In addition to this, she says she could have relied on 
partner and family if she needed to. 
Having thought about what Mrs N has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs N would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mrs N was ever made redundant. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs N has said about the fact that she had some savings in the 
form of assets and a share portfolio which she could sell. While I dont doubt what shes told 
us, I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. Having it would mean 
she wouldnt have to go to the extreme of trying to sell off her assets or shares to pay for the 
store card. 
Finally, Ive considered what Mrs N has said about being able to rely on her husband and 
other family members to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that 
the PPI wasnt useful for her. While Mrs Ns husband and relatives may have wanted to help, 
their financial situation could change, so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs N could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Mrs Ns representative said it didnt have anything further for me to consider and I didnt 
receive a response from AXA.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Mrs N nor AXA provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman