DRN-1111864
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mrs F says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2008 Mrs F took out a PPI policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Both were 
done at the same time in-branch.
The policy provided protection for Mrs Fs mortgage payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 
12 months per claim and it cost just under £30 a month.
At the time of the sale Mrs F was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full followed by six months' half-pay. She said she had less than three months' pay 
in savings she could use to make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mrs F chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs F disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs F's complaint and my reasons are set out 
below: 
did Mrs F know she had a choice about PPI  did she agree to take it out?
I think RBS made it clear that Mrs F didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out. I say this becasue:
Mrs F's mortgage application records that she indicated she wanted to apply for PPI.
she signed a separate PPI application and direct debit mandate, which also set out 
the amount of cover the policy provided.
she also signed a 'Giving Your Agreement Form' which also indicated she wanted to 
apply for PPI - there is a cross in the required box.Mrs F's mortgage offer letter said she wasn't required to take any other financial 
product as a requirement of the offer - it later repeated this describing PPI as 
'optional insurance.'
 
did RBS provide Mrs F with advice?
RBS says it didn't provide advice or recommend the PPI to Mrs F. Mrs F says she can't 
remember.
I've not seen anything which leads me to conclude RBS did provide advice - for example I 
can't see it asked Mrs F questions about her circumstances in an attempt to assess her 
need for cover. So I don't think this was an advised sale.
This means RBS didn't have to check if the policy was right for Mrs F. But RBS did have to 
give her enough clear and timely information about it, so she could make that decision for 
herself.
the information  
The available evidence suggests that Mrs F had some information about the cover. For 
example, I can see that the benefit amount was set out in both the mortgage application and 
the PPI application/direct debit mandate, and the monthly cost was in the mortgage offer.
I think given the context of a meeting about a mortgage, I find it unlikely Mrs F would've 
agreed to go ahead with the policy without knowing something about it and what it provided. 
So I think she likely had a broad understanding of the policy.
But I accept its possible the information RBS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. For example the evidence doesn't tell me that the significant exclusions on 
and limits to the cover were clearly brought to Mrs F's attention. To that extent I accept RBS 
might not have treated Mrs F entirely fairly and reasonably when it sold her PPI.
Despite that, in light of Mrs F's circumstances at the time, I don't think better information 
would've put Mrs F off taking out the policy - I still think she'd have taken it out because:
Mrs F was eligible for the cover.
as I found above she chose to take out PPI - so it looks like she was interested in this 
type of cover.
she wasn't affected by any of the significant exclusions to or limits on the cover - for 
example those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances.
Mrs F said she had sick pay and savings she could rely on to make her mortgage 
payments. But the policy would've paid out in addition to any sick pay and for longer 
if necessary - up to 12 months per claim. This would've allowed Mrs F to use her 
existing means to cater for other ongoing household expenditure. So I think it 
would've played a useful part in helping her to protect her mortgage payments and 
ultimately her home.
I'm also mindful that, Mrs F understood what the cost and the benefit of the policy was 
before the mortgage started. So I think she was in a reasonable position to weigh up 
the cost and benefit proposition of the policy and to judge whether it worked for her.
the cost, in any event appears to have been affordable.
 
conclusionWhile RBS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs F PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time - and because I don't think the policy 
operated fundamentally differently from what she expected - I think Mrs F would still have 
gone ahead and taken out PPI had RBS done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs F has lost out as a result of having PPI, so RBS doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs F what she paid for PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman