DRN-2906162
The complaint
Mrs O complains that a car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs O got the car in January 2020 and it broke down the following August, after shed driven 
over 2,000 miles. A third party garage (TPG), specialising in this particular make of car, ran 
diagnostic checks that suggested there was a problem with the ECU. That part was replaced 
but the problems persisted. After further investigations, the TPG found some damaged 
wiring to the ECU that seemed to be due to poor workmanship. The TPG replaced some 
wiring and got the car started but it broke down very soon after and Mrs O hasnt driven it 
since. 
Mrs O complained to MotoNovo. She considers the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
outset because of this faulty wiring and repairs needed to the parking brake and suspension 
bushes following an MOT in August 2020. She wanted to reject the car for a refund. But 
MotoNovo said Mrs O needed more evidence to show that these issues were faults present 
when the car was supplied - as she had it for about eight months before they appeared. 
MotoNovo asked Mrs O to get a report from an independent expert but she didnt think that 
was fair  as shed already provided evidence from the TPG.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators recommended the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought the repairs to the parking brake and the 
suspension bushes were likely wear and tear related so she couldnt reasonably hold 
MotoNovo responsible for those. But, she was satisfied information from the TPG suggests 
the car had faulty wiring that was probably present when it was supplied. She thought it was 
reasonable to give some weight to this evidence and - after repairs carried out by the TPG 
didnt work - she considered Mrs O should be entitled to reject the car. The investigator 
recommended MotoNovo should end the finance, take the car back and provide refunds in 
respect of the deposit, monthly payments (from 18 August 2020), repairs to the ECU and the 
cost of towing the car to the TPG. She thought MotoNovo should also pay Mrs O £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It didnt think the TPG was 
sufficiently independent and considered an independent expert should be instructed to 
inspect the car and provide a report.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I considered the relevant information about this complaint and, whilst I was minded to uphold 
it, my reasoning wasnt quite the same as the investigators. Id also seen some new 
evidence and I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome overall. I thought it was fair 
to give the parties the chance to consider my provisional findings and respond before I made 
my final decision. So, I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2021. Ive set out my 
provisional conclusions below and these form part of my final decision.  
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable but I must have 
regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time. Im satisfied the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here.
MotoNovo supplied this car under a HPA and (under the CRA) theres an implied term that it 
would be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Quality of goods includes their general 
state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability. And Im satisfied that this car needed to meet the 
standard a reasonable person would expect  taking into account the age, price and mileage 
at the point of supply.
The car was about seven and a half years old, with 83,000 miles on the clock and cost about 
nearly £6,000 when Mrs O got it in January 2020. I think a reasonable person would accept 
that a car like this wouldnt meet the same standards as a brand new vehicle  in that some 
parts were likely to be worn and might need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later. Thats 
reflected in the lower price paid for a used car. But it doesnt mean that an older car with 
higher mileage can be supplied with significant faults present.
evidence about the cars condition
I have considered what Mrs O says about the repairs she paid for when the car underwent 
an MOT on 18 August 2020. For broadly the same reasons as the investigator, I think it is 
more likely than not those repairs were required as the result of the sort of normal wear and 
tear thats to be expected for a car of this age and mileage. I dont think the fact that these 
issues were mentioned in advisories in previous MOT paperwork means they are faults that 
were not addressed. And I am unable to reasonably hold MotoNovo responsible for the cost 
of related repairs.
There seems to be no dispute however that this car also had an electrical issue in August 
2020. Mrs O provided evidence, in the report from the TPG, which says the car has faulty 
wiring which was probably there at the outset. Whilst this isnt a report from an independent 
expert, I dont think it is unreasonable to give some weight to the TPG technicians findings 
in these particular circumstances. Im satisfied hes employed by a specialist dealership. I 
think it seems likely hed have appropriate qualifications and experience  with this make of 
vehicle especially - and Im satisfied he carried out relevant investigations and repairs to the 
car.
Having said that, I also didnt think it was unreasonable that MotoNovo wanted to obtain 
further evidence in the form of a report from an independent expert, in this situation. I gave 
MotoNovo a few weeks to arrange this and explained, at the same time, that I thought it 
would be reasonable to let any expert see the report provided by the TPG and comment  in 
light of the TPGs detailed examination of the car.
MotoNovo has now supplied an experts report. Its disappointing to find no reference to the 
TPGs investigations and repairs. I think the independent experts conclusions are somewhat 
limited as a result. I appreciate the expert says further work is needed to identify what 
caused the problem exactly but I dont think his report takes matters any further forward. 
Essentially, the expert confirms the damaged wiring is present - but he doesnt comment on 
the likely cause or impact of this. He simply concludes that the car could not have been in 
the condition its in now at the start of the HPA.
No one, so far as I know, has suggested that the car was in the exact position its in now, at 
the outset. Mrs O doesnt deny, for example, that she was able to drive the car for over 
2,000 miles before it broke down. I appreciate the expert says this was over more than six months after supply and suggests this means she has to prove the problem was there at the 
outset. But, for the reasons Ive set out below, I think Mrs O has provided evidence that 
indicates this car was faulty when it was supplied - in the TPG report. And I cant fairly 
exclude that fact that this issue might well have arisen much sooner but for the national 
lockdown in the early part of 2020 - which meant Mrs O drove the car much less over the 
first six months than the national average and probably less than she otherwise would.
was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied ?
I think the crux of the matter here is whether the faulty wiring - that both the TPG and the 
independent expert confirm is present  is likely to have caused the breakdown and whether 
this was present when the car was supplied. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory  as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. This 
means I consider whats most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
The TPG is clear that it considers the wiring was probably damaged before Mrs O got the 
car. They told us the appearance and nature of the damage they saw seemed historic. They 
dont think its surprising that Mrs O was able to drive as far as she did  as this damage 
wouldnt necessarily have an immediate impact (over the sort of mileage she covered). They 
also felt its unlikely to have been caused by the work Mrs O paid for in August  as that 
would not have involved working around or near the wiring in question.
Im not a mechanic but I think the evidence the TPG provided is fairly detailed and seems to 
make sense. The independent expert hasnt given me any reason to think the TPG might be 
wrong about any of this. And, on balance, I think the weight of the current evidence suggests 
its more likely than not this wiring was damaged before Mrs O got the car and this damage 
caused the car to break down in August 2020 and subsequent problems. I am minded to 
conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mrs O got it so Ive gone on to 
consider what, if anything, MotoNovo should do to put things right.
putting things right
According to emails Ive seen between the TPG and Mrs O, the TPG tried replacing the ECU 
and some of the damaged wiring but this didnt resolve things - the car broke down again the 
day Mrs O collected it following those repairs. The TPG told us the next step would be to 
replace the wiring loom itself but that involves a considerable cost.
Im satisfied a specialist dealer has investigated and been unable to repair this car 
economically. I think its unlikely the supplying dealer would have had a different experience 
even if it had agreed to investigate and repair the car when Mrs O first raised the issue. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think its fair that Mrs O should have to wait 
any longer to have this matter sorted out. And Im minded to find she should be allowed to 
reject the car and receive a refund. 
It looks as if Mrs O paid a deposit of £1,000 (according to the HPA) at the start of the 
agreement so I think its fair she should have that back. As far as I can see, she was (to all 
intents and purposes) unable to drive the car after 23 August 2020 (thats the date of the 
breakdown recovery report) because of the faulty wiring. And Im inclined to find it fair for 
MotoNovo to refund any finance payments made after that date. It looks as if Mrs O also 
paid £72 to have the car towed to the TPG and over £1,000 for ECU related repairs. I dont 
think she would not have incurred this cost if she hadnt been supplied with a faulty car - so I 
find its reasonable for MotoNovo to refund these payments as well.
I have no doubt that what happened here caused Mrs O a good deal of frustration, distress and inconvenience. And Im minded to find it fair that MotoNovo pay her £200 compensation 
to reflect that. Its not clear from the information Ive got if Mrs O has been able to maintain 
her monthly payments towards the agreement. But, if MotoNovo has recorded any adverse 
information about the HPA on Mrs Os credit file Id be inclined to find it fair that should be 
removed as well.
The responses received from the parties
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have further submissions, 
if they wanted to, before I made my final decision. Both have now responded. Ms O agrees 
with my provisional decision but MotoNovo doesnt. MotoNovo says (in summary):-
under the CRA, where faults are reported more than six months after supply, the 
customer needs to evidence the fault was present/developing at the point of supply;
Mrs O complained more than six months after this car was supplied and she provided 
evidence from the TPG which refers to an electrical issue/wiring loom fault;
the TPG thinks this fault was there when Mrs O got the car but this is not accepted 
because the independent engineer confirmed the fault could not have been present 
at the point of supply;
its wrong to discount the experts evidence - in view of his qualifications and signed 
statement of truth, his report should be definitive; 
there are no grounds to find this car should be rejected, the dealer hasnt had the 
chance to repair and allowing rejection in these circumstances sets a dangerous 
precedent in terms of interpretation of the CRA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. I accept the CRA says (for our purposes here) 
if goods are of unsatisfactory quality within six months of supply then theyre presumed to 
have been so at the point of supply. But, I dont think that means any issue which arises after 
six months must not have been present at the point of supply. And, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think Mrs O has provided enough evidence here to show that its likely this car 
has faults which were probably present when it was supplied to her. 
I reach this conclusion having weighed all the available evidence including the report 
provided by the independent expert. MotoNovo hasnt provided any new evidence in 
response to my provisional decision - or said anything thats persuaded me to change my 
mind. Ive already explained why I think it is reasonable to take the findings of the TPG into 
account. And I cant reasonably conclude that the independent experts opinion should be 
considered definitive - simply on the grounds of his qualifications and the statement of truth. 
I encouraged MotoNovo to let the independent expert see the TPGs report and comment 
but he hasnt done so. I find the independent experts conclusions are limited, as a result. 
And I think its reasonable to give more weight to the TPGs conclusions, in these particular 
circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out, I remain of the view it is more likely than not this 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I accept the CRA says suppliers may be entitled to one opportunity to repair in this sort of situation. But, thats provided (broadly speaking) this doesnt take too long or prove too 
inconvenient. Im satisfied it was open to MotoNovo (or the dealer) to have this car checked 
and undertake repairs when Mrs O first complained. I think it unlikely the car could have 
been repaired satisfactorily - even at that stage  given the specialist TPG was unable to fix 
things very shortly after. And, even if repairs were possible, I cant rule out the possibility that 
these particular faults would have a detrimental effect on the durability of the car going 
forward. 
Taking everything into account, including the time thats passed since Mrs O first reported 
the problem and the inconvenience shes experienced, I dont think its fair to expect her to 
wait any longer for this matter to be resolved. I remain of the view its fair she should be 
allowed to reject this car and I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to:-
1. end the HPA and arrange to take the car back at no cost to Mrs O;
2. refund the deposit of £1,000;
3. refund any finance payments made from 23 August 2020 in full;
4. refund the costs of repairs related to the ECU/wiring in the sum of £1,198.69; 
5. refund £72, the cost of transporting the car to the TPG for investigations and 
repairs; 
6. pay interest at 8% simple a year on the above refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement; 
7. pay Mrs O £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
8. remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman