The complaint
Mr A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to him 
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr A was given 7 loans by Sunny between September 2015 and January 2017. All the loans 
were instalment loans, to be repaid over 14 months. As the table below shows, some of 
these loans ran concurrently. I understand loans 6 and 7 are outstanding.
A summary of Mr A's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount
1 05/09/2015 29/10/2015 £1,200.00
2 26/01/2016 19/05/2016 £1,100.00
3 30/03/2016 19/05/2016 £1,300.00
4 19/07/2016 03/10/2016 £300.00
5 09/11/2016 01/12/2016 £500.00
6 02/01/2017 Outstanding £1,000.00
7 23/01/2017 Outstanding £700.00
Mr A's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Sunny 
should not have agreed to provide loans 6 or 7. So he asked Sunny to compensate Mr A. 
Sunny has told us it now accepts the adjudicators view but Mr A has not confirmed whether 
he agrees with this outcome. So the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
DRN-1147188that Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable way. Sunny's checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish whether 
continued lending was sustainable for Mr A.
Such factors include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might of course be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter. I am partially upholding Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr As loans were all repayable over a period of 14 months. So the amounts that he needed 
to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But he had to 
make those repayments over a longer period. And for part of the time, Mr A had more than 
one loan open. So Ive needed to consider the total amount that Mr A needed to repay to 
Sunny every week.
Sunny says it carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Mr A. These checks 
included asking for details of his income and expenditure, and carrying out some credit 
checks. 
I dont think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first five loans were 
proportionate. Given the amount being lent to the consumer each time, the length of the 
contractual term for each loan (14 months) and what was known about Mr As 
circumstances,  I think Sunny should have carried out better checks before agreeing to loans 
1 to 5 - to satisfy itself that Mr A could meet his ongoing repayments sustainably over an 
extended period of time. But from the evidence Ive seen, I cant conclude that better checks would have shown Sunny that it shouldnt provide these loans. So I am not upholding Mr As 
complaint about loans 1 to 5.
 
I agree with our adjudicator that by loan 6, Mr As overall pattern of borrowing suggested 
hed become persistently reliant on Sunnys lending. Mr A had taken 6 loans in 16 months 
and loan 6 was for a higher amount that the previous two loans - so the level of his 
borrowing was not significantly decreasing. I think that Sunny should reasonably have 
realised that Mr A was no longer borrowing to meet a short-term, emergency need, but that 
he was most likely now borrowing to keep up with his ongoing financial commitments. As a 
responsible lender, Sunny should have reasonably questioned whether it should continue to 
offer further short-term loans to this consumer, whose repeated borrowing suggested that by 
then, he had become reliant on the lending - which the rules and guidance made clear 
should only be for a short-term purpose. Taking everything into account, I don't think Sunny 
should have provided Mr A with loan 6 or any lending after this. So I uphold Mr A's complaint 
about loans 6 and 7.
 
Putting things right
I understand loans 6 and 7 remain outstanding. Sunny should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr A in respect of any outstanding balances - bearing in mind 
the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Sunny should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loans that 
are being upheld, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr A having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
If an outstanding balance remains then Sunny should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with him.
The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from 
his credit file. If Sunny has sold the outstanding loans it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. Sunny does not have to remove the outstanding loans 
from Mr As credit file until these have been repaid, but it should remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited trading as Sunny to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21st July 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman