DRN-4473962
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the service she received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
Limited (RSA) under her home insurance policy following flooding damage at her home. For 
the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes reference to its agents, contractors and
representatives in this decision.
What happened
Miss Cs home suffered significant damage during a flash flood in July 2021. She reported
the matter to RSA, and it accepted her claim. Shed previously complained about delays in
RSA processing her claim and it had offered compensation of £500 for certain service
Failures. However, Miss C had been seeking compensation in the region of £5,000. The
outcome of that complaint to this service was that RSAs offer was determined to be fair and
RSA wasnt required to progress work any sooner than was proper, for ensuring a lasting
repair to Miss Cs home.
Miss C has complained that works still hadn't started following her previous complaint, and
that there was no plan for it to proceed. She was unhappy about the continuing delays and
lack of communication. She was also unhappy about RSAs stance in terms of floor
replacement, as it hadnt proceeded in accordance with a surveyors recommendation.
Finally, she was also unhappy that shed had to chase RSA for alternative accommodation
payments. Miss C now wanted a clear timeline for repairs. She also wanted the repairs to be
completed and compensation for the further trouble and upset caused. Again, RSA accepted
that its service could have been better, and it paid further compensation of £100.
Miss C referred her further complaint to this service. However, the relevant investigator didnt
uphold her complaint. His investigation had covered the period from mid-October 2022 to
mid-May 2023. He agreed there had been some service issues, including lack of updates
and delays from the loss adjusters which led to avoidable delay and upset. However, he
thought that the £100 compensation was in line with the award which the service would
recommend. He noted that RSA had dealt with flooring requirements, and he thought this
was fair. As to the delay in making alternative accommodation payments, he expected Miss
C to allow RSA time to contact her but also for RSA to contact her in good time.
Miss C remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In October 2023, I issued 
a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA acted in a fair and reasonable manner
during the period mid-October 2022 to mid-May 2023 in relation to Miss Cs claim, and in
offering £100 compensation for its acknowledged service failings. My provisional conclusion
is that, whilst RSA generally made fair and reasonable efforts to progress this claim, the
compensation didnt adequately recognise some of the process delays, and Ill explain why.
Miss C said that two years after the flooding event, she was still not back in her home and
work hadnt even commenced. She hadnt seen a plan for works to commence. Whilst the
event affected dozens of her neighbours, all others had been back in their homes within a
year. Miss C felt that since her initial complaint there had been further totally unjustified 
delays by RSA, as well as poor claims handling.
RSA had instructed an expert regarding the type of flooring required. [Miss C] said that the
surveyor concluded that a concrete floor was the only safe option given the age of the
property and the damage to supporting stud walls which insurers have also previously
accepted responsibility for replacing. [The expert] also thought this was the more economic 
option. Miss C complained that RSA refused to proceed based on this advice, and that it 
instructed another surveyor for a second opinion. It also said it would proceed with a 
suspended timber floor replacement which the initial surveyor considered to be dangerous.
Miss C referred to a meeting between relevant agents which Miss C considered to be 
deeply unprofessional and concerning. The surveyors were extremely rude and aggressive
to each other and could not agree at all on a common way forward. Miss C had made it
clear to RSA that she preferred the option of a concrete floor, having heard the arguments
for it and the potential dangers in using a different approach. As RSA went against the option
of the concrete floor, Miss C said that the project manager pulled out of the project, meaning
the whole claim had to essentially start from scratch. At this point, Miss C said shed asked
RSA for a cash settlement proposal as she felt she could potentially arrange the works more
quickly and efficiently herself. This wasnt provided by RSA despite her numerous requests.
Miss C also said that at one stage, shed been informed that RSA was intending to stop
paying her alternative accommodation payments, despite its commitment to pay them until
her home was restored and despite her being responsive and cooperative throughout and
this delay being of RSAs making. Miss C said that shed found the threat of homelessness
deeply worrying as she couldnt afford both mortgage and rent simultaneously and shed
been anxious ever since. RSA would only agree to pay the costs for limited periods at a time
and she had to repeatedly chase them for payments which added to her anxiety. Shed also
been out of pocket by thousands of pounds on at least two occasions, when RSA should
have been paying the landlord direct, but never did.
Miss C had also asked to be updated on a regular basis as to progress with the property
claim. Despite assurances in this regard, she felt she never received regular updates and
instead have to chase repeatedly myself. I am often ignored for weeks at a time. She felt
that since the project managers withdrew in in June 2022, nothing had happened with
respect to her property. The individuals with responsibility seem to often be on annual leave
with no handover or way to progress matters in their absence. She said that unacceptable 
delays were acknowledged in February 2023. She said she was categorically told that a
clear timescale would apply from that point, to include finalising a schedule of works within 4
to 6 weeks maximum, but this deadline was missed. A timescale was also given as to going
out to tender, pre-contract site meeting and for works to proceed. She said The length of
this claim is now seriously interfering with my life plans.
In summary, Miss C said that the delays were completely unacceptable, and the personal
cost to her health had been overwhelming. Miss C considered that RSAs offer of £100 in
compensation to be insulting. She didnt consider that it even began to address the anguish
and distress shed felt. She wished this amount to be increased and for RSA to confirm that
they will formally prioritise my claim and keep to their own deadlines.
I now turn to RSAs submissions regarding this matter. It upheld Miss Cs complaint about
certain service issues and offered to pay compensation of £100 in this respect. It set out the
timeline of events and confirmed that Miss Cs flat was flooded by water and sewage. RSA
considered that it had dealt with Miss Cs claim in a fair manner. It said its aim was to try to
minimise inconvenience as much as possible. For the period mid-October 2022 until mid-May [2023], RSA stated that it diarised and discussed accommodation payments a month 
prior to the next period. It said it was awaiting tender returns which would enable future 
planning as to the payments and committed to providing regular payments moving forward.
It said that there had been disagreement regarding the scope of the works and the question
of a cash settlement. It said that the consultants initially instructed to carry out the project
management had withdrawn following discussions with Miss C. Another supplier then had to
be appointed which caused a delay of around 2 months. RSA said that this was through no
fault of its own, however it meant that the new suppliers had to go through everything again.
It acknowledged however that it could see there were certain delays by its agents. It also
noted that Miss C was waiting for updates and call-backs on a few occasions, causing
delays of around 1 month in total. RSA apologised and offered compensation of £100.
Having considered all of the above evidence and submissions, these are the reasons for my 
provisional decision. I have every sympathy for the situation in which Miss C finds herself
through no fault of her own. I can appreciate that Miss C has endured a very difficult ordeal
over a period of over two years. I note that she described the flood as catastrophic. In such
circumstances there is an expectation that if an insured event occurs, the relevant insurer
will act in an effective and diligent fashion, to place the customer back in the position they
were prior to the incident. The specific period Im considering here is mid-October 2022 to
mid-May 2023.
Unfortunately, events of this nature do, in themselves, cause considerable distress, anxiety
and inconvenience. Its also appreciated that the process of assessing, scoping, scheduling,
procuring, and carrying out the physical works can be complex and lengthy. In this case Ive
seen from the case notes that this is a particularly complex project where there may have
been some pre-existing damage at the property and where there has been a potential impact
on a property in third-party occupation. Ive carefully considered the steps taken by RSA to
resolve these issues and to determine the most appropriate solutions.
I accept that all neighbours returned to their homes over a year ago. Whilst every property
will have its own particular issues and challenges, this either indicates that there were very
significant difficulties raised by this particular property, or that there had been unreasonable
delays in progress of Miss Cs claim. Having considered the evidence in detail, I cant say
that RSA have generally acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in progressing the
matter, although there are specific service failures which RSA has already acknowledged.
The flooring solution has been a point of considerable contention and has clearly been the
cause of some of the most significant difficulties. I appreciate that RSA obtained a second
opinion. However, as flooring can be a critical and expensive item, I cant say that obtaining
a second opinion was an unfair or unreasonable position to take. It ultimately preferred the
like-for-like suspended timber floor option rather than provision of a new concrete floor. Its
clear from the conflicting professional opinions that both solutions had their respective
merits, and Im unable to conclude in the circumstances that the like-for-like solution was
unfair or unreasonable.
As to the meeting between agents, whilst professional disagreement isnt unusual, its
unfortunate that the individuals couldnt reach agreement over the best solution. I note that
Miss C favoured the concrete floor solution as the only safe option, and that RSA favoured
the suspended timber floor solution. Its then most unfortunate that the original agents who
had been managing the project withdrew from the project as a result. This will undoubtedly
have caused disruption and delay for Miss C through no faut of her own. Whilst I appreciate
that such issues may also have been outside RSAs control, I consider that the reasons for
and consequences of this withdrawal could have been better managed by RSA and I
consider that a modest further sum in compensation is merited in this respect.As to a proposal for a cash settlement, the decision as to how to settle a particular claim and
whether to make a cash settlement is a decision for the insurer. Nevertheless, the case
notes indicate that RSA had been willing to consider making a cash settlement based on the
quotes it had received for reinstating a suspended timber floor. Its not clear whether
agreement has since been achieved as to the flooring solution. However, on a provisional
basis, I dont consider that additional compensation is merited in relation to discussions
around payment of a cash settlement.
As to the suggestion that payments or alternative accommodation might stop, I appreciate
that would have been very concerning for Miss C. However, I note that RSA has now
committed to continue to make payments as appropriate, and in the circumstances, Im not
minded to award further compensation in this regard. I also cant say that it would be
unreasonable for RSA to wish to review the alternative accommodation payments from time
to time. I trust that Miss C will no longer be required to have to chase payments.
Im satisfied that this claim has presented some significant difficulties for RSA, and many of
the unfortunate delays, could not have been predicted or avoided. Nevertheless, RSA has
accepted that there had been delays by its agents and that Miss C had been waiting for
updates and call-backs on occasions. I agree. However, my provisional conclusion is that
the offered compensation doesnt provide adequate recompense for these acknowledged
issues which have caused at least a months avoidable delay. This will have caused
significant stress and inconvenience in an already frustrating and distressing situation. I
consider that compensation of £400 as well as the £100 already offered would be more in
line with an award in accordance with the services published guidance.
In my provisional decision, I asked both RSA and Miss C if they had any further comments 
or evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA confirmed that it had no further evidence to offer and agreed the provisional decision.
Miss C said she noted the provisional finding that RSA was at fault in the handling of the
claim and in the delays caused to the project. She wished to make it clear however that the 
delays caused by the flooring issue didnt last for one month only. Miss C stated that work 
was due to commence on the property in October 2022. She said contractors had
been appointed, the initial meeting had happened, Miss C had chosen finishes and had 
started ordering furniture. Miss C said that the second opinion and consequent delays 
caused by RSA's change of heart in relation to the floor led to a delay of almost 1 year in the 
works re-commencing.
Miss C considered that the delay was a delay of at least seven months, being the period 
from October 2022 to May 2023 and said that this couldnt be disputed. Miss C said that this, 
in turn, had a bearing on compensation. She felt that at the very least, this case clearly fell 
within the bracket of £750 to £1,500. She referred to the relevant guidance in relation to this 
bracket, where the impact of a business's mistake causes substantial distress, upset, and 
worry and even potentially a serious offence or humiliation. It also applies where there may 
have been serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over 
many months, sometimes over a year. The guidance also says that it could also be fair to 
award compensation in this range if the business's actions resulted in a substantial short-
term impact. Miss C didnt therefore consider that £400 compensation was adequate.Again, I have every sympathy for the situation in which Miss C finds herself through no fault 
of her own, and fully appreciate that Miss C has endured a very difficult ordeal over an 
extended period. However, the provisional decision didnt uphold all aspects of Miss Cs 
complaint and didnt find that all delays were unavoidable delays caused solely by RSA. I 
remain of the view that the remedial project here was particularly complex, and in my 
provisional decision, I made it clear that I considered that RSA had generally made fair and 
reasonable efforts to progress this claim. The additional submissions havent persuaded me 
to change my decision in this respect.
Ive no doubt that the withdrawal of the original project manager caused major delays in this 
project, and I accept what Miss C states, that the issue in relation to flooring caused a 
seven-month delay. However, it couldnt have been predicted that the project manager 
would withdraw because the like-for-like suspended floor solution was adopted. I dont 
therefore consider that RSA was responsible for the events that unfolded in this respect. 
Flooring can be a critical and expensive item in such a project, and I cant say that obtaining 
a second opinion and adopting the resulting solution was an unfair or unreasonable position 
for RSA to have taken.
I remain of the view that there were certain service failures which RSA has already 
acknowledged. As stated in the provisional decision as regards withdrawal of the project 
manager the reasons for and consequences of this withdrawal could have been better 
managed by RSA and I consider that a modest further sum in compensation is merited in 
this respect. I also consider that RSA failed to provide Miss C with updates and call-backs 
on occasions. Whilst I dont consider that these failures led to delays of seven months, I 
agree that it is likely to have led to delays of some weeks. 
I therefore remain of the view that the compensation of £100 offered by RSA didnt 
adequately recognise the avoidable delays for which it was responsible. I also remain of the 
opinion that the service failures will have caused additional stress and inconvenience in an 
already frustrating and distressing situation.
However, Im satisfied that an award of compensation of £400, in addition to the £100 
already offered by RSA is within the appropriate award bracket contained in the services 
guidance, where the impact of the identified service failure lasts over a period of some 
weeks as in this case. Whilst I recognise that the on-going stress of this event will have been 
substantial for Miss C, I cant say that the additional stress caused by RSA over this period 
of weeks merits an award of compensation into the higher bracket.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £400 in addition to the £100 already offered to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused over the relevant period.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman