DRN-2889295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premiums 
in relation to their travel insurance policies. Reference to Great Lakes includes 
reference to its agents.
Mr and Mrs Bs son, Mr B1, is helping them to bring their complaint.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs B each have a separate, single trip travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes. They had a trip planned in May 2020. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination. In April 2020, the airline cancelled 
Mr and Mrs Bs flights. Mr and Mrs Bs accommodation provider cancelled their 
accommodation. Both the airline and the accommodation provider gave Mr and Mrs B 
refunds. On 9 May 2020, Mr B1 asked Great Lakes for a refund of the premiums. 
Great Lakes initially offered Mr and Mrs B a 20% discount on the base price of their next 
policy, as a gesture of goodwill. That wasnt acceptable to Mr and Mrs B.
My provisional decision
On 1 June 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said: 
Mr B1s submissions, on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf, are detailed and comprehensive. Ive
summarised the basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less detail. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. Were an informal alternative to the courts; were impartial 
and were not here to answer specific questions put to us by the parties. Each complaint is
decided on its own facts and merits.
Our role is to consider all the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome, and to decide how we think the dispute should be settled. So, I 
wont be addressing all the points Mr B1 has made. That doesnt mean Ive ignored whats 
been said. Ive considered everything Mr B1 and Great Lakes have said and provided but I 
confine my findings to the issues on which the outcome of the complaint turns.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree 
those are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this 
case.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall 
take effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, 
whichever is later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make 
a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such 
as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Great Lakes has now made a revised offer, which I think is fair and reasonable. Ill explain
why.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is 
more than 14 days after the cooling off period Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a 
refund of the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. 
Looking at how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to 
consider exercising its discretion in this case and to refund the total premiums    
Mr and Mrs B paid. Thats because I dont think this type of situation is one which 
the discretion in the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically mentions 
bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and thats 
not what happened here. I appreciate that Mr B1 has strong feelings to the 
contrary, but Im not persuaded that its fair to direct Great Lakes to refund the 
premiums.
Great Lakes made an error in its previous calculations of the partial refunds due 
to Mr and Mrs B. Prompted by this service, its recalculated the refunds which are 
now £16.14 for Mr B and £50.30 for Mrs B. Those refunds have been calculated 
on the basis of the time left on cover after the trip was cancelled on                     
22 April 2020. Great Lakes has now offered vouchers for those amounts. It says 
that the voucher can be used to purchase any new policy, be given (not sold) to a 
third party and are valid for 36 months.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable including the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this 
case, I think Great Lakes revised offer is fair. Thats because Mr and Mrs B had 
the benefit of cancellation cover under their policies from the date they took the 
policies out in January 2020 until their trip was cancelled in April 2020. So, the 
policy covered the risk of Mr and Mrs B having to cancel their trip due to an 
insured event, including falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, I dont agree that Great Lakes didnt provide any service to Mr and Mrs B.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B want a refund of the total premiums they paid but 
Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer that. I think the offer Great Lakes has now made 
is fair. Thats because Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of the policy up to the date 
their trip was cancelled. The offer Great Lakes has made is more than its obliged 
to make.
Mr B1 has referred to the cover provided by Mr and Mrs Bs policies following 
cancellation of their trip. Nothing in the part of the policy to which Mr B1 has 
referred provides that Great Lakes must refund the premiums on cancellation of 
the policies. The part of the policy which relates to cancellation of the policy, 
rather than the trip, is as Ive set out above. Great Lakes isnt obliged to give     
Mr and Mrs B a refund of the premiums in the circumstances that arose here.
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain for everyone. Ive noted whats 
been said about Mr and Mrs Bs future travel intentions. But I dont think that 
means that Great Lakes offer has no value. The offer is available over an 
extended period and is flexible. Ive seen nothing which would lead me to the 
conclusion that Great Lakes is obliged to offer cash refunds, rather than 
vouchers, in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. Mr B1 said, in summary:
The policy provides for refunds when theres a government directive prohibiting travel 
as a result of a natural disaster, which includes an epidemic: Covid-19 is an epidemic 
and the government ordered a travel ban.
He accepts that the policy started when it was taken out, not when the trip was due to 
start. The policy was cancelled when the government ordered a travel ban on           
17 March 2020. 
Offering vouchers is unfair, inflexible and unacceptable. Mr and Mrs B dont want to 
use this insurer again and they may become too ill or unable to travel. 
Its fair for Great Lakes to provide a pro rata cash refund for unused cover from        
17 March 2020 onwards which amounts to £202 in total. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B1 has referred to the part of the policy that relates to cancellation of a trip, not the 
cancellation of the policy. I set out in my provisional decision and above the relevant terms 
relating to cancellation of the policy. 
I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Bs policy was cancelled by the FCOs advice about travel in 
March 2020. That advice didnt cover travel insurance policies. It follows that I dont think its 
fair to calculate any refund from the date of the FCOs travel advice. 
Ive noted what Mr B1 has said about Mr and Mrs Bs future travel and travel insurance 
plans. But I dont think that means that Great Lakes is obliged to offer a cash refund in this 
case. For the reasons Ive explained, I think that Great Lakes offer of vouchers is fair and 
reasonable. Ive considered whats been said but I remain of the view that the revised offer Great Lakes 
has made is fair and reasonable. I propose to direct it to provide Mr and Mrs B with pro rata 
vouchers for £16.14 and £50.39 respectively, valid for 36 months.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, I remain of the view 
that the revised offer Great Lakes has made is fair and reasonable. I now direct it to provide 
Mr and Mrs B with vouchers for £16.14 and £50.39 respectively, valid for 36 months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I now require                          
Great Lakes Insurance SE to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman