DRN-3763353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have a lifetime mortgage with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
They complaint that it was mis-sold to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C got a lifetime mortgage with Norwich Union in 2002. Aviva is now responsible 
for that mortgage. The documentation that was prepared before the sale says they wanted to 
release equity from their home to buy a car, have money for central heating and to have 
holidays over the next 5 years. A personalised illustration was put together based on a 
property value of £100,000 and loans from £15,000 to £26,000.
After this Mr and Mrs Cs property was valued at £115,000, so a maximum loan amount of 
£29,900 was considered too. Mr and Mrs C went ahead with a loan of £29,900 in October 
2002.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by their son, Mr C1. Mr C1 contacted Aviva on behalf of his 
parents in July 2021. He said (amongst other things) that his parents werent happy with the 
mortgage but didnt realise that they could challenge it. He says his parents didnt discuss 
the mortgage with their family before entering into the agreement as they should have done. 
It appears that he thinks Aviva should have done more to encourage his parents to get the 
legal advice early on in the process of getting the mortgage.
Aviva said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy so they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mr C1 said:
he thought the figures used by the sales agent in 2002 were wrong  Mr C1 thought 
the agent exaggerated their spending and didnt include their pension income.
he thought the agent had been inconsistent about Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk.
he thought the agent was wrong to say that Mr and Mrs C didnt have access to 
emergency cash.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr 
C1 remained unhappy. He asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. He raised a number of other points Ive considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld either. Ill explain why.
Its clear from the points Mr C1 has raised that he thinks that the sales agent in this case 
took advantage of Mr and Mrs C  encouraging them to get an unsuitable lifetime mortgage 
for his own financial gain. In addition to the points set out above, Mr C1 has told us that his 
parents are nave when it comes to financial issues. He says they met with the sales agent 
for less than an hour in 2002  something theyve described as a whirlwind.
Ill start by saying that this type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and 
interest rolls up over the years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can 
sometimes come as a shock to family members as it appears to have done in this case. But 
that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  Mr and Mrs C  didnt 
understand the consequences of the interest roll up and werent happy to agree to it at the 
time. 
This was Mr and Mrs Cs property. If they wanted to use the equity in their home to improve 
their quality of life, it would be highly inappropriate for me to say that they shouldnt have 
been allowed to do so.
Ive looked at the reasons Mr and Mrs C said they wanted to take the mortgage out for in 
2002. The fact find document says they wanted money to buy a car (£10,000), central 
heating (£5,000) and to have holidays for the next 5 years (around £2,500 a year). It also 
says they wanted to put money into an emergency fund. It records that Mr and Mrs C said 
they didnt want to move home, use their savings or use their monthly income to meet those 
objectives. So a lifetime mortgage seemed an appropriate option for them.
Mr C1 has said that he doesnt think the sales agent did enough to explore different options 
for funding these expenses with Mr and Mrs C. He accepts that the agent asked them about 
using existing savings and moving to a smaller home, but he thinks there should have been 
a discussion about re-mortgaging or taking out a personal loan.
I cant be certain exactly what was discussed at the time. Im aware that around 20 years 
have passed since the mortgage was sold. So I would be surprised if Mr and Mrs C could 
recall everything that was discussed. However, Ive carefully considered what Mr C1 has told 
us about their recollections of what happened. Ive also reviewed the documents available 
from the time of the sale to try to build up as full a picture as possible. 
I can see that the fact find documentations and mortgage illustration were provided to Mr 
and Mrs C before they entered into the mortgage. I think Aviva could reasonably expect Mr 
and Mrs C to look at that documentation they were provided with and say something if a 
mistake had been made (e.g. if it didnt correctly set out their income or expenses as Mr C1 
has said, or their attitude to risk). But they didnt do that.
Im satisfied that the mortgage costs (including the interest rate and an illustration of how 
that would compound over time) were provided to Mr and Mrs C before they took out the 
lifetime mortgage in 2002.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs C got legal advice before they took out the mortgage. So Im 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs C discussed the terms of the mortgage with their solicitor before 
they entered into the mortgage.
The documentation Ive been provided with also says that Mr and Mrs C told the agent that 
theyd discussed the agreement with the beneficiaries of their will as the mortgage would 
affect them. Mr C1 has made it clear that that didnt happen. He says that if Mr and Mrs Cs 
children had been given the opportunity to meet with the sales agent the outcome would 
have been totally different.I dont underestimate Mr C1s strength of feeling about this, but it was up to Mr and Mrs C to 
decide whether they wanted to discuss the matter with their family in 2002. I can see that the 
agent recommended they did so before they entered into the agreement. So I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Aviva responsible for Mr and Mrs C not doing 
that. 
Mr C1 has also said that the agent sent Mr and Mrs C a letter recommending they discussed 
the matter with their family eight days after he sent them the initial documentation. He thinks 
the agent should have done that sooner. But Im not persuaded that made any difference 
here as theres no dispute that the agent recommended Mr and Mrs C discussed the matter 
with their children before they entered into the mortgage. Im conscious that the mortgage 
illustration said that Mr and Mrs C could withdraw from the mortgage application at any point 
up until the money was advanced. The initial meeting with the sales agent took place on 13 
August 2002 and the loan was advanced on 16 October 2002. So Mr and Mrs C had around 
2 months to consider the mortgage in full and change their minds about taking it out if they 
wanted to.
Mr C1 has also questioned why Mr and Mrs C borrowed £29,900 when they originally only 
wanted to borrow up to a maximum of £26,000, and they didnt need all that money to meet 
their original objectives (to buy a car, have money for central heating and holidays). He 
doesnt think that Mr and Mrs C should have borrowed so much money and thinks this is an 
example of how Mr and Mrs C were taken advantage of. I understand the point Mr C1 has 
made but I think that it was up to Mr and Mrs C to decide how much they wanted to borrow 
in 2002. 
I can also see that the 2002 fact find document said that Mr and Mrs C said they wanted 
the money for central heating (£5,000), a car (£10,000) holidays over the next five years 
(£2,500 x 5 = £12,500). That comes to a total of £27,500. They also wanted to put money 
into an emergency fund. So I understand why they decided to borrow £29,900 after their 
property was valued for a higher amount than originally anticipated. I can see that the agent 
told Mr and Mrs C about the risks of borrowing money to put into an emergency fund. The 
fact find document said:
I have pointed out that holding funds on deposit over the longer term may represent poor 
value for money, as the interest rate paid on a deposit account currently is likely to be less 
than the interest rate applicable to the loan. Whilst you require access to these funds you 
should be aware of the implications of leaving money on deposit over the longer term. It is 
likely that the future value of any potential legacy to your beneficiaries will be eroded.
conclusion
Im conscious that Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed by the outcome of this decision. 
However, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that the advice and 
recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman