DRN-3192861
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) failed to properly advise him during the sale and renewal of his hospitality insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S held a hospitality insurance policy with NFUM. He claimed on his policy after his 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
NFUM turned down Mr Ss claim. They said Mr Ss policy provided cover for interruption to 
his business for certain insured events, but this didnt include losses caused by Covid-19 
and the Governments response to the pandemic. NFUM said that while the policy covered 
certain specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the covered diseases.
Mr S complained to our service. He said NFUM hadnt properly advised him of the possible 
risks under the business interruption section of his policy and if they had he would have 
taken out adequate insurance. 
NFUM said they had sent Mr S a copy of the renewal documents prior to the renewal with an 
invitation to get in touch if he required any changes to the cover in place. NFUM said they 
didnt hear from Mr S, so the policy renewed in August 2019.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
explained that our service isnt able to consider the initial sale of the policy in this particular 
complaint. However, he didnt think NFUM had failed to properly advise Mr S at the renewal 
in August 2019.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
national pandemic on Mr Ss business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Our investigator has explained why we cant consider the initial sale of this policy. As that 
hasnt been disputed I dont intend to comment on that further and will instead focus my 
decision on the renewal of Mr Ss policy in 2019. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with those demands and needs. NFUM renewed Mr Ss policy on an advised basis which 
means they have to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also 
have a general duty to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive seen a copy of the renewal documents NFUM sent to Mr S on 29 June 2019. In these, 
NFUM let Mr S know that his policy would renew automatically on 25 August 2019. On the 
first page the letter asked Mr S to check the documents to ensure the cover met his needs. 
The documents also included a copy of Mr Ss Demands and Needs which included the 
requirement for business interruption insurance in order to be covered if his business is 
impacted by an insured event. On 31 July 2019 NFUM sent Mr S a further copy of the 
renewal documents and asked Mr S to get in touch if he wanted to discuss the renewal 
further. I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr S let NFUM know he required anything 
further. 
I understand that Mr S assumed that as he was covered for business interruption this would 
cover him if his business was interrupted. However, the policy doesnt cover every risk and 
what is and isnt covered is set out within the policy terms and conditions. 
I accept that cover for the risk of diseases is something that Mr S would likely want to be 
covered for, given the nature of his business and the policy does provide cover for a list of 
specified diseases. I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr S let NFUM know he wanted 
wider cover for diseases, and I wouldnt expect NFUM to have highlighted to Mr S, in August 
2019, that his policy didnt cover him for losses caused by an unknown disease.  
NFUM specified Mr Ss demands and needs in the renewal documents and I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that the policy they sold wasnt consistent with those demands and 
needs. NFUM also provided information in a way to Mr S that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Overall, Im satisfied that NFUM took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability 
of their advice when renewing Mr Ss policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman