DRN-2088409
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked a money transfer from his account due 
to fraud concerns but did not contact him to confirm if it was authentic. He then suffered a 
large consequential financial loss so required compensation.
What happened
Mr C had an investment with an offshore business which Ill refer to as X. 
X contacted Mr C and told him that he was able to protect his investment against losses due 
to market volatility, by paying it an additional $6,493 for an insurance policy.
Mr C made the transfer from his Barclays account, but when he checked he found the 
money had not left his account. He contacted Barclays on the same day who said the 
transaction had been blocked as it suspected it was fraudulent.
Mr C complained to Barclays. He said the insurance payment required was time limited, and 
as it had been blocked and Barclays had not contacted him, he had lost over $36,000 as a 
result.
Barclays agreed they should have contacted him once the payment was blocked as 
potentially fraudulent and apologised for not doing so. It offered Mr C £50 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by not contacting him. But it said it continued to be 
concerned that the payment was a scam. Mr C said Barclays had taken away his ability to 
decide on the authenticity of the transaction for himself and he had lost a large amount of 
money as a result. 
Barclays reviewed the complaint further but maintained that they firmly believed the 
transaction Mr C had been asked to make was a scam, and they were right to block it to 
prevent fraud. However, they raised their offer of compensation to £200 for distress and 
inconvenience, as they acknowledged they should have proactively contacted Mr C when 
they blocked the payment.
Mr C did not agree so brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator thought Barclays were acting in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of Mr Cs account, when they blocked the transaction. She agreed that Barclays should have 
contacted Mr C to discuss the transaction, but thought the £200 offered for distress and 
inconvenience was fair in the circumstances.
She also considered the nature of the insurance policy Mr C had been asked to pay for, what 
was known about X, and the fact that Mr C had not tried to make the payment again. As a 
result of these things she thought Barclays had been fair in declining to pay for the 
consequential loss Mr C was asking for. Although she couldnt be sure the transaction was 
fraudulent, she thought Barclays concerns seemed very reasonable.
Mr C did not agree. He thought that he had lost over $36,000 as a direct result of Barclays 
not contacting him, and it had admitted it should have done. So he thought it should be held 
responsible and compensate him appropriately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed it should have contacted Mr C regarding the transaction it blocked and 
has now offered £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C thinks that Barclays should also compensate him for the consequential loss he says 
has occurred, but I dont agree.
Firstly, Barclays had concerns that the transaction was fraudulent, and stopped it. I have 
checked the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account and they allow it to do this. So, given 
the nature of the transaction, I think they have acted reasonably here to protect Mr C. 
Barclays agree they should have called him earlier. And Mr C says its failure to call him 
before the close of business resulted in him not being able to pay for the insurance policy 
within the time specified and so losing a significant amount of money when his investment 
failed. 
But Im satisfied that even if Barclays had called Mr C earlier that day the outcome would, 
more likely than not, have been the same. By this I mean that I think its likely Mr C would 
not have authorised the transaction and so the insurance policy would not have been paid 
for that day. I say this because I can see that when Mr C had the conversation later the 
same day with Barclays he agreed he couldnt be sure that being asked to buy the 
investment insurance policy wasnt a scam. And I see no reason why an earlier conversation 
wouldnt have followed similar lines. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Mr C tried to make the payment again, so Im 
satisfied that the discussion he had with Barclays made him think twice about the 
transaction. So it follows that Im satisfied that had that conversation occurred earlier, it 
would have had the same outcome, and Mr C wouldnt have completed the transaction.
Mr C has told our service that the offer of insurance was time limited and that he had to pay 
for the insurance policy within 96 hours of receiving the invoice. And so he says he lost the 
protection it would have given his investment because Barclays didnt call him to tell him the 
transaction had been stopped. And by the time he realised and had called Barclays, it was 
too late to complete it. But having looked at the insurance policy, I cant see that it is time 
limited. This limit is only mentioned on the invoice sent to Mr C, and here it says:
Payment should be done within 96 hour after invoice received. If not, invoice should be re-
generated
This does not suggest to me that payment has to be made within 96 hours, just it would 
require a new invoice to be issued if it wasnt. So I think Mr C would have been able to 
complete the transaction by requesting a repeat invoice, had he wanted to.
So Im satisfied Barclays were fair in protecting Mr Cs account by stopping the transaction. 
And although Barclays made an error by not calling him, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
an earlier call by Barclays would not have resulted in Mr C taking a different course of action. And so it would not be fair to say Barclays are responsible for the loss Mr C says he suffered 
as a result.
My final decision
As a result of all the above I dont uphold this complaint 
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already offered to pay Mr C £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I now require them to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman