DRN-1444583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the service they received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) under their travel insurance policy. My references to IPA include its agents, including 
its emergency assistance service.
What happened
Unfortunately while on holiday abroad with family Mr F was admitted to hospital with a 
suspected heart attack. He had surgery the day he was admitted, 4 August. Mrs F contacted 
IPA that day. IPA accepted the claim and issued a guarantee of payment to the hospital on 
7 August. Mr and Mrs F returned home on a later flight than originally planned.
Mr and Mrs F complained to IPA about its service. In summary they said:
IPA took too long to send a guarantee of payment to the hospital. Mrs F says she felt 
she had no option but to pay the hospital the money it wanted otherwise her husband 
might have died. They said when they took out the policy they told IPA Mr F didnt 
have pre-existing medical conditions so IPA should have given a guarantee of 
payment straight away and checked pre-existing conditions later 
the hospital wouldnt discharge Mr F and return the money Mrs F paid until it received 
a guarantee of payment which IPA delayed sending
they couldnt return home on their planned flight with the rest of the family and IPA 
didnt contact their existing hotel and pay for their extended stay. Instead they had to 
choose between changing hotel or pay to stay at the existing hotel and claim back 
later. They did the latter as it was impractical to change hotel.
Mrs and Mrs F want compensation for their distress and inconvenience IPA caused. They 
said they were supposed to be on a holiday of a lifetime, instead IPA failed to help them at a 
very traumatic time.
IPA said it had to check certain information before it could accept a claim. The hospital knew 
the process and had a duty of care to treat patients in an emergency. So the hospital  
shouldnt have made treatment dependent on Mrs F paying.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. Mrs F said IPA didnt tell her not to be bullied into paying the 
hospital. IPA hadnt addressed her complaint about its poor handling of their return flight and 
extra hotel accommodation. Mrs F also told us that IPA had delayed in paying the claim, 
didnt cover her taxi costs abroad and used varying exchange rates to her disadvantage.
Our investigator said IPA didnt delay in providing the guarantee of payment and gave 
reasonable service.
Mr and Mrs F disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said Mrs F had to 
constantly chase IPA and IPA was the problem, not the hospital or hotel. Also we hadnt 
considered the additional money IPA owed to them or the exchange rate issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about whether IPA gave fair and reasonable service around the guarantee of 
payment and additional hotel costs when Mr and Mrs F couldnt take their original return 
flight. Those are the issues Mr and Mrs F complained to IPA about. They have raised 
additional matters in their complaint to us but they need to first complain to IPA about those 
matters before we can consider them. Ive asked our investigator to contact Mr and Mrs F to 
explain what they need to do. 
Mr and Mrs F were in an extremely stressful situation and I know IPA didnt give Mrs F the 
service she was expecting. But I do think IPA gave fair and reasonable service. I dont 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs F called IPA it told her it would need a medical report from hospital and a signed 
release of information form so it could get Mr Fs medical information from his GP. IPA acted 
reasonably in wanting to consider that information before it decided whether or not to accept 
the claim. An insurer doesnt have to issue a guarantee of payment on a disclaimer basis  
and then investigate whether it will cover the costs, even in an emergency.
Given the urgency IPA wouldnt have been able to consider and agree the claim or get a 
disclaimer completed before Mr Fs surgery. The hospital does have a duty of care to 
provide emergency treatment. It chose to ask Mrs F to pay before it agreed to treat Mr F. 
Mrs F says  IPA should have told her not to be bullied into paying costs to get emergency 
treatment. But at the time it would have been very difficult and perhaps unwise for IPA to say 
that to Mrs F given the possible consequences for Mr F. And if the hospital did aggressively 
ask for Mrs F to pay before they acted I think, very understandably, Mrs F would have paid 
anyway.
Ive seen the notes IPA made at the time. By the 7 August IPA had assessed the medical 
information recently received and told the hospital the claim was covered. IPA sent the 
guarantee of payment to the hospital that day. IPA didnt unnecessarily delay in assessing 
the claim or sending the guarantee of payment. 
When Mrs F called IPA  on 11 August to chase the guarantee of payment IPA told her it had 
already been sent. It agreed to send to an email address she gave that was different to the 
one the hospital originally gave IPA. From the evidence Ive seen if the hospital was refusing 
to discharge Mr F on 11 August because it hadnt received the guarantee of payment IPA 
wasnt fault as it had already sent the guarantee of payment.
The medical report IPA received on 12 August said Mr F was fit to fly but needed a medical 
escort. Mr and Mrs F were due to fly home with the rest of the family on 14 August and IPA 
told them on 13 August that a medical escort couldnt be arranged in time for that flight. IPA 
acted reasonably in not being able to arrange a medical escort so quickly. I can see from  
IPAs notes that it was active in arranging a medical escort for 19 August, which is a 
reasonable timescale. 
IPA notes show it did speak to Mr and Mrs Fs hotel on 14 August to extend and pay for the 
additional nights but the hotel wouldnt take payment from IPA. The hotel told Mrs F IPA 
didnt phone but IPAs notes are enough evidence that it did. Mrs F says IPA could have paid the hotel groups head office but theres no evidence the hotel told IPA it could pay that way. 
IPA informed Mrs F about alternative options that same day, and those were reasonable 
options in the circumstances.
Mrs F has said she had to constantly chase IPA to get it to act. But I can see from IPAs 
notes there was two way communication and that IPA was being proactive in doing what it 
reasonably needed to do to progress the claim and help Mr and Mrs F.
As I think IPA gave fair and reasonable service theres no basis for me to award any 
compensation to Mr and Mrs F.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman