DRN-4279481
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans registered a default on 
her account in February 2023. She has complained that Likely Loans has acted unfairly in 
the way it administered the default. To resolve her complaint, she wants the default removed 
from her credit file.
What happened
Likely Loans lent Ms C a loan in December 2021. In early 2022 Ms C encountered problems 
keeping up with repayments and her account fell into arrears on more than one occasion. Ms 
C managed to bring her account up to date prior to October 2022. 
In October 2022 Ms Cs account went into arrears again and this time she didnt bring it up to 
date. In January 2023, Likely Loans called Ms C to discuss the arrears on the account. 
During that call, Likely Loans agreed to place Ms Cs account on a 30-day hold (breathing 
space) as she explained she was on maternity leave and due to a mistake from her 
employer she had been receiving half her monthly pay rather than the full amount. The agent 
on the call told Ms C to contact Likely Loans by 12 February 2023 as this was when the 30-
day period expired.
Likely Loans didnt hear from Ms C by 12 February 2023 and attempted to contact her by 
telephone and text message for an update. As it didnt get a response, Likely Loans 
defaulted Ms Cs account on 14 February 2023. In May 2023, Ms C settled her account, and 
it has now closed.
Ms C complained to Likely Loans about the default it registered on her account, she said she 
her personal circumstances were difficult at the time. She also said she assumed Likely 
Loans had accepted her offer to repay the loan by March 2023, and she feels the default has 
been unfairly registered. Ms C says the impact of the default on her credit file is significant 
as it is likely to render her and her four children homeless as shes at risk of being evicted 
from her home and the default on her file makes it difficult for her to find a new place.
Likely Loans didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint as it said it entered the default correctly. It 
explained to Ms C that she could contact the credit reference agency to raise a Notice of 
Correction. The notice will provide an explanation to the circumstances surrounding the 
default which should give context to other creditors. Ms C didnt accept what Likely Loans 
said and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Cs complaint and concluded Likely Loans hadnt acted 
unfairly. He didnt recommend that the default be removed from Ms Cs credit file. In 
response to the adjudicators view, Ms C disagreed and said she needed more time to 
provide further information. The adjudicator extended the time, but I cant see Ms C provided 
any further information.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me an ombudsman to decide. 
My decision is the final stage in the Financial Ombudsmans process and if Ms C accepts my 
decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs contention on this complaint is that she was led to believe Likely Loans accepted her 
request to bring her account up to date by March 2023 during a phone call in January 2023. 
She also says Likely Loans registered the default too soon and didnt do enough to contact 
her at the end of the breathing space in February 2023.
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties, this includes the call recording 
between Ms C and Likely Loans in January 2023. It is not in dispute that from October 2022 
Ms Cs account was in arrears and no payments were made towards her loan. Ms C 
explains this was due to having a baby and reduced pay from work.
Until Likely Loans contacted Ms C, I cant see that she reached out to explain her 
circumstances and seek help with her payments. This is important because Ms C confirms 
during the phone call with Likely Loans that shed reached out to her other creditors and had 
plans in place. So, she knew the repayments were her responsibility and could have 
contacted Likely Loans sooner.
During the call with Likely Loans, I can hear the agent explaining that her account will be 
placed in breathing space for 30 days to give her the time to engage with her employer and 
sort out the error with her pay. The agent also clearly explained that a Notice of Default had 
been sent to Ms C which she appears to acknowledge. The agent explained that if Ms Cs 
account remained in arrears at the end of the breathing space, there was a risk her account 
would be defaulted. The agent asked Ms C to get in touch by 12 February 2023 and 
encouraged her to contact Likely Loans before then if she had any updates. 
Also, on that call Ms C said she wasnt sure when her back dated pay will be sorted with her 
work and when she will receive her full pay. She said she planned to make a payment on 24 
January 2023 but couldnt say how much. Ms C also said she thought shed be able to repay 
the loan by March 2023. 
From listening to the call recording, I dont think the agent gave the impression Ms Cs 
proposal to repay the loan in March 2023 meant no further action will be taken on her 
account until that time. I think the agent was quite clear she had a 30-day breathing space 
and she needed to get in touch before the end of 30 days to avoid further action being taken 
on her account.
Ms C didnt get in touch by 12 February 2023, and she acknowledges Likely Loans tried to 
contact her after that date by text and phone. Ms C didnt respond to either attempts and 
didnt contact Likely Loans back.
I have no doubt Ms C had a lot going at the time based on what she has said, and I can 
understand how she may have missed responding to Likely Loans. However, this wasnt 
Likely Loans fault and as I think it was clear about what Ms C needed to do and it contacted 
her at the end of the 30-day period before it defaulted her account. I also cant see Likely 
Loans was made aware of the extent of Ms Cs personal circumstances in the way she 
explained it in her complaint to this service. Based on the information it had, I think Likely 
Loans was reasonable in the circumstances.Ms C has said registering the default within a day was unfair. But Im mindful that Likely 
Loans issued the default notice on 5 January 2023 and so Ms C was on notice in line with 
the relevant rules that her account was at risk of being defaulted. The agent also reiterated 
this to Ms C during the call. So, Im satisfied she was duly notified in line with the relevant 
rules and regulations, and she was given the opportunity to bring her account up to date.
Ms C didnt make the payment on 24 January as shed said on the call, and she didnt 
contact Likely Loans until 17 March 2023 which was after the breathing space had expired.
I understand the default on the credit file disadvantages Ms Cs access to credit, but I dont 
think Likely Loans treated her unfairly. It showed forbearance and issued the statutory letters 
before registering the default. Ultimately, Ms C had a responsibility to repay the loan in line 
with her agreement and to work with Likely Loans in her financial difficulty. I dont think she 
responded within a timely manner to the urgency of the situation and that is what led to the 
default being registered in the way it was.
Ms C has said she has continued to have difficult personal circumstances and Im 
sympathetic towards her and wish her the best with turning things around for the future. My 
role as an ombudsman is to consider whether Likely Loans has done anything wrong in her 
case and while her circumstances are difficult, I dont think Likely Loans has acted unfairly in 
this instance. So, I wont be asking it to remove the default from Ms Cs credit file as I think it 
was correctly entered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman