DRN-2433797
The complaint
Mr L complains about information he received from Rothesay Life Plc (Rothesay) about his 
retirement benefits. He complains Rothesay told him he could take his benefits as a lump 
sum and so he chose that option. But he was later informed that option wasnt available to 
him. 
What happened
 Mr L held two pension plans with Rothesay.
In 2017 Mr L contacted Rothesay to ask about one of the plans. Rothesay sent him 
information about the retirement options under that plan. 
Mr L chose to have the benefits paid as a lump sum and the payment was made to him.
Mr L contacted Rothesay in 2020 to ask for information about the second plan. In May 2020 
Rothesay wrote to Mr L with a retirement quotation for that pension plan. That letter set out 
three potential options; an annual income, a trivial commutation lump sum option and a 
transfer alternative.
Mr L opted for the trivial commutation lump sum option and returned his documentation to 
Rothesay in May 2020. 
Rothesay then realised that as Mr L had already taken a lump sum payment from another 
plan more than 12 months before, he was unable to take another lump sum. Because HM 
Revenue and Customs rules didnt allow this. 
On 8 July 2020 Rothesay informed Mr L that he was unable to take a lump sum which left 
him with the option of either taking an annual pension or transferring his benefits. 
Mr L complained to Rothesay and said it had informed him he could take the benefits as a 
lump sum.
On 17 July 2020 Rothesay wrote to Mr L and said it was still investigating his complaint but 
offered him the option to transfer his retirement benefits to another provider. It included a 
Guaranteed transfer value statement. This showed details of the transfer value which was 
guaranteed for a period of three months from the transfer value guarantee date. It was 
guaranteed until 13 October 2020.
On 20 July 2020 Rothesay wrote to Mr L and upheld his complaint. It apologised for the error 
in his retirement quotation and acknowledged his records should have been checked prior to 
sending him the quotation. It issued him with a transfer quotation as it said it understood that 
was the next option he would have chosen, if the trivial commutation hadnt been offered to 
him.
Mr L then contacted Rothesay to say he was unable to find a provider who would accept the 
transfer of his plan.
Rothesay acknowledged its proposed solution of transferring may be unhelpful in those 
circumstances. So, it offered Mr L compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
At around that time Mr L did try to transfer his pension benefits, but the transfer was refused 
by Rothesay because it implemented its general policy that it didnt allow transfers for plan 
holders of 65 years and over. And it hadnt informed the relevant department that it was 
making an exception for Mr L because of the particular circumstances of his application. 
Mr L didnt accept the compensation and referred his complaint to our service. He 
complained that he had been informed he wasnt allowed to take his benefits as a lump sum.
Our investigator contacted Rothesay and it confirmed that both the transfer option and the 
compensation were available to Mr L. Because by then matters had moved on and it 
transpired that Mr L had found a provider who would accept the transfer.
The investigator considered the complaint and agreed that Rothesay had made an error in 
its retirement quote to Mr L. But she noted that Rothesay had acknowledged its error and 
apologised. She thought its offer to transfer Mr Ls benefits and pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused was fair and reasonable. 
Mr L disagreed with the compensation offered which he felt was insufficient. He also said if 
he had known there were two pensions in 2017, he wouldve taken the lump sum then. He 
was also disappointed with the amount of annual pension provided by the plan.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ls complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr L held two pension plans - deferred annuity contracts - with Rothesay which were linked 
to an employment group pension scheme and provided guaranteed minimum pensions 
(GMP).
In 2017 Rothesay wrote to Mr L in respect of one of his pension plans. This was in response 
to a request from Mr L for information about this plan. Rothesay set out the benefits provided 
by the plan and gave Mr L the option to take the benefits as a small lump sum. It also 
included a help sheet about trivial commutation which explained the rules around taking the 
small lump sum.
Mr L chose that option and the lump sum payment was made to him. 
In May 2020, following an enquiry for Mr L, Rothesay wrote to Mr L in relation to a second 
pension plan and set out the options available. 
Under option 2 in the May correspondence it said:
It may be possible for you to take a Trivial commutation lump sum instead of all your 
pension benefits of
See notes below. 
Then in the notes section under the title Taking all your pension benefit as a trivial 
commutation lump sum it said:The value of your pension for working out if you can take a trivial commutation lump sum on 
3 July 2020 is £20,519.20. As this is less than the HMRC limit of £30,000.00, it may be 
possible for you to have an estimated lump sum of £20,057.52 (which you will need to pay 
tax on) instead of any pension payments from Rothesay Life. These amounts are worked out 
in different ways to meet statutory requirements.
However, you can only take a trivial commutation lump sum instead of your pension 
payments if you meet all the conditions set by HM Revenue and Customs., Please refer to 
the Help sheet on taking all your pension benefits as a trivial commutation lump sum.
I also note the Help sheet was also included in the documentation provided and the form 
completed by Mr L asked him to confirm he had read the Help sheet. 
So, I think there was some indication in the correspondence from Rothesay that the option of 
taking the benefit as a lump sum was not something that was automatically available and 
was subject to certain conditions.
As those conditions are set by HM Revenue and Customs, Rothesay was obliged to act in 
accordance with them. The conditions prescribe the amount that can be taken as a lump 
sum and the timing around taking more than one small lump sum. So, any small lump sums 
had to be taken in a 12-month period. The effect of this was that was Mr L was unable to 
take a further trivial commutation lump sum in 2020 because he had already taken one in 
2017. 
Rothesay has acknowledged that it should have checked its records to see whether Mr L 
had had any other plans where benefits had already been taken, prior to sending out the 
retirement information to Mr L in May 2020. It has explained this is largely an automated 
process and the manual input doesnt look at the history of previous plans. 
I consider that Rothesay confused matters by sending the information in the way it did to    
Mr L. The information wasnt technically incorrect because it said you may be able rather 
than you can take this option. But I think it gave the general impression that Mr L would be 
able to take his benefits as a lump sum. Whereas if Rothesay had checked its records it 
would have only provided two options to Mr L  the annual pension and transfer. It could 
have further explained why the third option of commutation wasnt available.
However, I dont think it would be right to ask Rothesay to now provide Mr L with the option 
of a lump sum payment because this wasnt an option it was entitled to offer. The error made 
by Rothesay was the information it gave to Mr L. Rothesay has since rectified that error by 
providing the correct information. So, I have to consider what Mr L would have done if he 
had received the correct information in the first place and whether any harm has been 
caused- either financial or non-financial- as a result of that incorrect information being 
provided. 
So, I have given careful further thought to the potential for Mr L to have transferred his 
benefits if hed had the right information to begin with.
Mr L has said he is unhappy with the level of annual income provided by the plan and has 
indicated that, if possible, he would have opted for a transfer instead. 
By the time Rothesay informed Mr L of its error, he had reached 65 years.In the May 2020 letter Rothesay had explained its policy and said:
Please note, a transfer payment equal to the value of your policy benefits is paid at 
Rothesay Lifes discretion. Our current policy is to offer transfer values to policyholders who 
are not already receiving payment of their benefits and are under age 65. Once your benefits 
have been put into payment, it will not be possible for you to transfer.
So, under Rothesays policy Mr L was no longer eligible for a transfer. However, Rothesay, 
because it had made an error, has since offered Mr L the option to transfer. And it has 
continued to offer this option, although as I understand it a transfer has not yet been 
completed. 
I note there was some difficulty with the transfer where it was rejected by Rothesay. This 
was after Mr L had informed Rothesay that he couldnt find a provider to accept it. So, 
Rothesay hadnt informed the relevant department to override its general policy of not 
allowing transfers once a consumer had reached 65 years.
This was a further error on Rothesays behalf, and I do think that, under the circumstances, 
Rothesay should honour the option to transfer to another provider, if it is possible to do so  
by that I simply mean that there is a provider who is willing to receive the pension benefits. I 
understand that Mr L has now found a provider, so hopefully this can be taken forward. 
I think Rothesay should provide the transfer option because if it had only offered the correct 
options in the first place, in May 2020, then I think it more likely than not that Mr L would 
have taken up that option. I also consider on balance he would have responded within the 
time allowed- before his 65th birthday- as he did in relation to the trivial commutation. 
Rothesay has also offered Mr L £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to     
Mr L. It initially offered this as an alternative form of compensation when Mr L indicated he 
was unable to find a provider to transfer his benefits to. But Rothesay has since indicated 
that it is offering both the transfer and the compensation.
I consider Mr L was caused trouble and upset here- I think he would have been very 
disappointed to find out he couldnt take his benefits as a lump sum which had been his 
preferred option. And then Rothesay made a further error. So, I agree that he should be 
offered compensation in addition to the option to transfer. 
Overall, I consider £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I take into account the 
initial information provided to Mr L did give some warning that the lump sum may not be an 
option. And Rothesay confirmed the correct position within about two months, apologised for 
its errors and offered the transfer option. So overall, I consider the £150 offered is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive further noted that Mr L has said if he realised in 2017 that there were two pension plans, 
he would have taken both as lump sums at the same time. But I dont think that Rothesay 
can be held responsible for that. There were two plans with two different policy numbers. I 
can also see the plans covered different periods of pensionable service. 
Rothesay gave Mr L the details of the retirement options for the first plan in 2017 with 
reference to a specific policy number. This was in response to a request from Mr L. It said in 
the correspondence the request was for details of retirement options under that plan. So, I 
cant see it misled Mr L about how many plans he held.In addition, I note that the dates of the pensionable service were included in the information 
provided to Mr L. So, if this didnt cover the full period of his service Mr L could have 
questioned this. I also note that the help sheet, which Rothesay included with the information 
provided in 2017, explained the significance of the 12-month period. So, if Mr L had been 
unsure as to whether there were any additional plans, he could have investigated this further 
before choosing the lump sum option. 
I also note that Mr L contacted Rothesay in 2020 rather than Rothesay contacting Mr L. As 
Rothesay responded to Mr Ls request for information about his plan. This would suggest   
Mr L was aware, at that time, that there was a second plan.
Putting things right
 Rothesay should cooperate with Mr Ls transfer request and pay Mr L £150 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused to him.
My final decision
 My final decision is Mr Ls complaint against Rothesay Life Plc is upheld and it should both 
cooperate with Mr Ls transfer request and pay Mr L the compensation it has already offered 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman