DRN-2125990
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in August 2018. The car was damaged in an incident in October 
2018 and, when it was being assessed in November 2018, other damage was identified. The 
car was assessed by another assessor later that month and it was confirmed that there was 
earlier damage to the car.
Mr J complained to Alphera that the car had been damaged before it was supplied to him. It 
said that there were discrepancies between the information that hed provided to the 
assessors and to the dealer and the dealer had assured it that the car wasnt sold in the 
condition claimed by Mr J. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service 
and says that he wants to reject the car.
The investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
there appear to have been pre-existing issues as per the assessors reports but businesses 
are usually afforded the opportunity to address and attempt to resolve any faults the 
consumer may experience with the goods  so she felt that Alphera Financial Services 
should look to repair any outstanding issues that Mr J has with the suspension and 
alignment of the car. She recommended that it should arrange an independent inspection of 
the car, arrange for any necessary repair work to the suspension and alignment of the car to 
be completed and pay Mr J £150 compensation for trouble and upset.
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has explained in 
detail why he considers that he should be able to reject the car and he says that £150 
compensation is insulting in the circumstances that hes described.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to Alphera Financial Services on 24 July 2020. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
Alphera Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J. Whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was 
supplied to Mr J was ten months old, had been driven for 12,253 miles and had a 
price of £13,482. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
The car was damaged in an incident in October 2018 and it was assessed by two 
assessors in November 2018. The first assessors report says:
Our concerns are that there is a) pre-existing partially repaired damage and 
b) issues are evident that have not been caused by the vehicle apparently 
getting hit by an unknown Third party vehicle;
and the second assessors report says:
 the body damage does appear to be consistent with the described 
accident circumstances, but none of the suspension damage is and with 
regard to the significant misalignment of the front tow, this would have caused 
scrubbing of the tyres .
Although both assessors refer to damage on the car that was present before it was 
damaged in the incident, neither of them provides any information about whether or 
not that damage would have been present on the car when it was supplied to Mr J.
The car was delivered to the dealer in June 2018 and was supplied to Mr J in August 
2018. Its a large, national dealer and has assured Alphera Financial Services that 
the car wouldnt have been supplied to Mr J in the condition described in the 
assessors reports. The car was less than a year old, had been driven for less than 
12,500 miles and had a price of £13,482. Mr J would have had an opportunity to 
inspect the car before it was supplied to him and I consider it to be more likely than 
not that he would have noticed some of those issues, such as partially repaired 
damage and a significant misalignment, if theyd been present at that time. I dont 
consider it to be likely that hed have agreed to pay £13,482 for the car if its condition 
was below average as reported by the assessor. Nor do I consider it to be likely that 
the dealer would have supplied the car in the condition described by the assessors 
with partially repaired damage and a significant misalignment  and it had the car for 
two months so would have had time to properly repair any significant damage.
Ive seen no other independent evidence to show that the car had been damaged in 
an incident before it was supplied to Mr J. If there had been issues with the cars 
suspension or alignment when the car was supplied to him, I consider that it would 
be reasonable to expect him to have noticed those issues, including the significant 
misalignment and the scrubbing on the tyres, and to have contacted the dealer about 
them. But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr J had complained to the 
dealer about any issues with the cars suspension or alignment before the incident in 
October 2018.
Alphera Financial Services has referred to the discrepancies between the information 
that Mr J provided to the assessors and the information that hes provided to it and 
the dealer. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence in these circumstances to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr J. So I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to 
allow Mr J to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to the car, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr J or Alphera Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr J has responded to my provisional decision in detail and sets out the reasons why he 
considers that his complaint should be upheld and that he should be able to reject the car.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive carefully considered Mr Js detailed response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change that decision. Im still not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr J. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require Alphera Financial Services to allow Mr J to reject the 
car, to pay for any repairs to the car, to pay him any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman