DRN-4044480
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) provided her with poor service and 
delays regarding her Individual Savings Account transfer.
What happened
Mrs W is unhappy that CBS have sent out letters relating to an ISA transfer initiated in 
branch after she specifically requested no letters to be sent out. She says she is concerned 
by the amount of personal information which is included in the correspondence such as her 
name, address, national insurance number and her account details. Mrs W made a 
complaint to CBS. 
CBS partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint. They said they provided her with redress of £25 for 
long holding times. CBS said they were unable to evidence an agreement with the branch 
that they wouldnt send personal details in the post. CBS said on 31 August 2022, they 
submitted a request to transfer her ISA with another provider to themselves, but this was 
rejected by them on 1 September 2022, however, they informed CBS that they had rejected 
it in error, so they submitted the request again on 2 September 2022 and this completed 
successfully on 8 September 2022.
CBS said there were times when theyre required to send personal information in the post 
such as any application forms or documents relating to an ISA transfer, and if any of her 
details were wrong or didnt match what the other institute holds, the ISA transfer may be 
rejected. They said to stop any letters coming out to her it was agreed that they would put a 
block on post being sent to her, and Mrs W wanted this to be applied to her account. They 
said Mrs W called them on 14 December 2022, wanting to set up an ISA transfer. But this 
couldnt be done due to the block on her account which was preventing post from being sent. 
CBS said if they set up an ISA transfer theyre required to send an ISA tax confirmation in 
the post. Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator felt the £25 offered was reasonable. He said CBS provided evidence which 
confirmed the other provider had incorrectly rejected the ISA transfer, CBS were unable to 
find any evidence of an agreement to not send letters after the first ISA transfer was 
requested. He said CBS did stop post as requested, but as some letters were required to be 
sent, then an ISA transfer couldnt be completed without such letters being sent.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she doesnt feel the £25 
compensation was enough to compensate her for her time and inconvenience of a 60 mile 
round trip to the branch and she made a number of calls which took a lot of time and £25 
didnt cover this. She felt a minimum of £100 was acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
CBS have provided evidence that the third party ISA provider that Mrs W was transferring 
from had accidently rejected the transfer request in error. So CBS submitted the transfer 
request again. As this error was made by the third party, I cant hold CBS responsible for any 
delays with this transfer.  
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs W has about receiving letters in the post which 
contain her personal details. But CBS have explained that there are times when they are 
required to send personal information in the post to Mrs W, such as any application forms or 
documents relating to an ISA transfer. And they must ensure that all the information they 
hold is correct and up to date. 
Ive read what Mrs W has said about the conversation she had with the branch and there 
was an agreement to not send post. The staff member who opened Mrs Ws account has 
provided a statement as part of Mrs Ws complaint that she told Mrs W that she would 
receive letters from CBS with her details on them and an agreement had not been made with 
the branch. As I was not in the branch when Mrs W opened her account, I would be unable 
to evidence what was actually discussed here. As closed-circuit television (CCTV) would be 
unlikely to contain audio and would typically be only kept for a number of days (eg 30 days), 
Im unable to say what was discussed here, and therefore I cant say that Mrs W was told 
incorrect information here. 
I can see that from the notes CBS hold, they show Mrs W later told them that she visited the 
branch so she wouldnt receive post with her details on it. Although Mrs W has told us she 
had a 60 mile round trip to visit the branch, CBS would not be responsible for paying for her 
time or costs to travel to the branch. 
Ive considered what happened when Mrs W called CBS to ask them to not send any 
personal information to her through the post. CBS applied a hold code onto the account 
which stopped correspondence being sent to her. CBS notes show that the person Mrs W 
spoke to confirmed that there wouldnt be any letters with personal details on them, but if she 
were to open an ISA she may receive some letters as they were mandatory. Several weeks 
after this, Mrs W attempted to open another fixed rate ISA with CBS and further letters were 
sent to her. So it does appear that Mrs W was informed if she opened a new ISA then letters 
would need to be sent to her for CBS to fulfil their regulatory requirements. And our service 
would be unable to interfere with how CBS fulfil their regulatory requirements. 
Mrs W spoke to CBS on 14 December 2022 to request an ISA transfer from a third party to 
the fixed rate ISA she recently opened, however, CBS confirmed they could only process the 
transfer if they lifted the hold code. This is because their systems wont allow transfers on
accounts which contain hold codes, as there are letters they have to send to customers to 
confirm ISA transfers. As this is CBS process, it is not within this services remit to tell a 
business how to run their processes or procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct CBS to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about the level of compensation awarded to her. But 
£25 is in line with what we would expect a business to pay Mrs W based on the long hold 
times, which CBS does not dispute. It would not be proportionate for me to ask CBS to pay 
further compensation to Mrs W based on what happened here, so it follows I dont require 
CBS to do anything further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman