DRN-3760965
The Complaint
Mr G says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) (Hitachi) 
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 20 September 2011 (the Time of 
Sale).
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Gs because only he was named 
on the credit agreement that gave rise to them. But as the holiday product that the claims 
related to was in his and his wifes (Mrs G) names, Ill refer to both of them at times 
throughout this decision. 
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs G purchased membership of a holiday club at the Time of Sale from a third party 
(the Supplier). And they helped to finance that purchase by taking a loan from Hitachi in 
Mr Gs name (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr G made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA using a professional representative 
(LF) on 1 February 2019 (the Letter of Claim). As the reasons for the claims at that time 
are familiar to both sides, I wont repeat them here.
Hitachi treated the claims as a complaint and issued its final response on 24 May 2019 
rejecting the allegations made by LF on Mr Gs behalf.
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2019. It was 
looked at by an adjudicator who, based on the information available, concluded that Mr Gs 
claims were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr G, who was now represented by a different professional representative (M), disagreed. 
And, in summary, M asked the adjudicator to consider the following:
Irresponsible lending as no affordability checks were undertaken by the Supplier.
Pressure as the sales presentation lasted 3-5 hours and Mr and Mrs G werent allowed 
to leave  which clearly gives rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 140A of
the CCA.
Tactics used by the Supplier were nothing short of undue influence.
Mr and Mrs G were told that their membership was an investment when it clearly wasnt.
The Supplier wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority, such that Mr Gs loan 
was void in light of a breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000.
The Supplier received undisclosed commission from Hitachi  which would give rise to 
an unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA.
The Supplier was selling the same product to many consumers knowing full well that, if 
they all wanted to holiday at the same time as Mr and Mrs G, it wasnt possible to 
accommodate that. So, each and every misrepresentation by the Supplier was 
fraudulent.
Mr G could not have known that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent or 
what remedy was available to him until he instructed M who, in turn, told him that the 
misrepresentations were fraudulent.
Mr G can rely on Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me. 
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 26 August 2022. And, in summary, I thought that 
Mr Gs Section 75 and 140A claims were made out of time under the LA.
As neither side has responded substantively to my PD, the complaint has been passed back 
to me to consider for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for the same reasons 
I gave in my PD.
As Ive said before, the Letter of Claim focused on claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA for the reasons given at that time. But 
the Letter didnt assert that Hitachis loan to Mr G was granted irresponsibly or that the 
Supplier wasnt an authorised credit broker. And his Complaint Form did nothing to suggest 
otherwise when this complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, while I 
continue to recognise that, in response to the adjudicators assessment, there may have 
been a number of concerns about what happened at the Time of Sale, in my view, the 
substance of this complaint remains confined to the claims that were made in February 
2019.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr G made a like claim against Hitachi under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period 
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means that he 
had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr G entered into the 
purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because he entered into the purchase 
agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as the loan from 
Hitachi was used to help finance the purchase, it was when he entered into the Credit 
Agreement that he suffered a loss.
This means that Mr G had six years from the Time of Sale to make a claim. But as I said in 
my PD, as he didnt do that until February 2019, his claim is likely to have been late. And for 
that reason, I still think Hitachi had and has a defence to it under the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair RelationshipOnly a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr G and Hitachi 
was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it 
if it applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it 
wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as 
this claim was only made in February 2019, I think Hitachi is entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to this claim too as Mr G still doesnt dispute that it was in November 2012 that the 
loan was settled and the Credit Agreement ended. And for that reason, I still see no reason 
to ask Hitachi to do anything further in relation to this claim either.
Grounds to Extend Time
M said that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent  which Mr G could not have 
known until he was told that was the case by M. It also said that Mr G can rely on Section 32 
of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
However, I still cant see why the mere fact that the Supplier sold the same product to a 
number of consumers who may have wanted to holiday at similar times of the year 
automatically leads to the conclusion that each and every misrepresentation (if made) 
would have been fraudulent. And based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the 
elements necessary to make such a finding are satisfied.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Yet, given the nature of the allegations 
fuelling each of Mr Gs claims in February 2019, I still cant see why that particular provision 
of the LA is engaged.
So, Im still not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended in keeping with 
the relevant provisions of the LA.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman