The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs M says she bought a PPI policy in 1997 to support a store card which started in 1995. 
PPI premiums were added to her store card account. The policy was sold during a 
telephone call. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because he thought AXA hadn't 
given Mrs M enough information about the cost and benefits of the policy which was clear, 
fair and not misleading. He thought her employee benefits and savings outweighed the 
benefit of the PPI cover. AXA disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.
AXA added that it was unlikely Mrs M would get 12 months sick pay from her employer at 
the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs M's case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs M's complaint and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs M was eligible for the PPI policy which she bought 
and that PPI was an optional product because her store card had been issued around two 
years before PPI started.
AXA said it was a non-advised sale. So AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs M 
enough information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she wanted to 
buy it. But I dont think AXA gave Mrs M clear enough information about the policy.
I havent seen a telephone call script which would have been used at that time to sell 
PPI, so I dont know exactly what was said to Mrs M during the telephone call when she 
bought PPI. I dont know how AXA explained what percentage of her outstanding balance 
would be covered, that the PPI premium would be added to the store card balance and 
could attract interest or that Mrs M would need to keep paying the PPI if she made a 
DRN-1925608successful claim - which in real terms would reduce the level of benefit to less than 15% 
of the outstanding statement balance.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs M because she said she would have got the 
equivalent of nine months full pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to illness and 
she had savings worth three months salary. So I think she could have met her store card 
repayments for a while without the policy. I dont think Mrs M would have bought the policy if 
shed known the true cost of it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account AXA's comments including what its said about the likelihood of Mrs 
Ms sick pay. But I still think I should uphold this complaint. Mrs M has been certain in telling 
us about her sick pay benefits from her employer and her savings when this policy was sold 
because she linked her memory to lifetime events. So I still think Mrs M could have managed 
without the PPI for long enough not to need it. 
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Mrs M 
has said. I think Mrs M would have had enough sick pay and savings to mean she didnt 
really need the policy. So I dont think Mrs M would have bought it if shed had better 
information about it.
Putting things right
I think AXA - which has taken responsibility for this PPI sale - did something wrong so it 
needs to do something to put things right for Mrs M.
My final decision
AXA France IARD should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when 
she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs M would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it 
until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when the AXA France IARD works out what Mrs M would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA 
France IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it 
should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M wouldve owed AXA 
France IARD something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 

D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this 
interest. AXA France IARD must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman