DRN-3393924
The complaint
Mr B says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out four instalment loans from Cashfloat. A summary of his borrowing follows.
Mr B says he should never have been given these unaffordable loans. Repaying them has
caused problems as he had to borrow more money.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said the lenders checks were
proportionate and did not reveal anything that ought to have prompted further reviews, or
have led to different lending decisions.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he asked when would further checks be appropriate  he had
defaults on his credit file; he took out new higher-value loans days after repaying previous
loans; he was gambling; his credit cards were maxed out and he only ever made minimum
repayments.
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it was passed to me. I reached 
a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows 
and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any comments by 14 
April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
In the early stages of a lending relationship less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. However, in line with the relevant regulations, we expect a lender to have 
proper regard for any information it gathers from the checks it decides to do. And this is why 
my findings differ from the adjudicators.
Cashfloat says it asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure when
he applied for the loans. It checked his declared income using an external income
verification service. It validated his declared expenses against national statistics, using the
higher value of the two. It also carried out a credit check each time to understand his credit
history and existing commitments. From these checks combined it calculated Mr Bs monthly
disposable income to be in excess of £1,400 on each occasion which showed the loans
were affordable for Mr B.
I think the initial checks Cashfloat carried out were proportionate. But Im not persuaded that
it had proper regard for the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Whilst the credit check Cashfloat carried out did not show Mr B to be heavily indebted (it
reported he had seven active accounts with a total debt of £941) and there were no defaults
registered in the last 12 months, I think there were entries that ought to have triggered a
fuller financial review.
The check showed Mr B had only six months before been reliant on payday loans for an 18-
month period. He had taken out 19 short-term high-cost loans suggesting he had most likely
been trapped in a debt cycle and was borrowing to repay. Given the recency of this financial
instability, and the fact Mr B was looking to borrow £500 when Cashfloat had calculated that
he had over £1,400 of disposable income each month, I think the lender needed to do further
checks to get the assurances it needed that Mr Bs finances were not under excessive
pressure.
Ive looked at copies of Mr Bs bank statements in the months before the loan. I am not
saying Cashfloat had to do exactly this but its a way for me to understand what further
checks would most likely have shown. I can see that Mr B was spending a significant
amount on gambling  in excess of his monthly income for the two months before he
applied. So I think that Cashfloat, as a responsible lender, would have concluded Mr B was
having problems managing his money and wouldnt have thought it likely Mr B would repay
his loan sustainably.
It follows I think Cashfloat was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr B. And given the reason for this I
think it was wrong to approve all subsequent applications based on their proximity to loan 1.
It needed to stop lending to Mr B, at least until it had evidence that Mr Bs finances had
stabilised.
I then set out what Cashfloat would need to do if I went on to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B responded to my provisional decision saying he had nothing further to add. 
Cashfloat disagreed with my provisional findings and outcome. It said, in summary, it agreed 
with the adjudicators earlier assessment that the checks were proportionate given the age of 
the lending relationship and the loan values. It asked how I could reach a different 
conclusion when we are all working to the same Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. It 
argued that as its checks showed an adequate amount of positive information it would have 
been unreasonable to ask for additional information. It said if Mr Bs finances were under 
excessive pressure there would have been more telling signs on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed it 
here.
Ive carefully considered Cashfloats response to my provisional decision, but its comments 
do not change my conclusion. Ill explain why.The lender argues its checks were proportionate and the results provided enough positive 
information for it to conclude that asking for additional information would be unreasonable. I 
disagree. Cashfloat points out  and I acknowledged this in my provisional decision  that 
the credit check at the time of loan 1 showed Mr B wasnt heavily indebted and there were 
no recent defaults. It also highlights he wasnt overdrawn and had available credit on his 
cards. I accept this, but it doesnt negate the more concerning information on his credit file. 
It showed Mr B had only six months before been reliant on payday loans for an 18-month 
period. He had taken out 19 short-term high-cost loans. As Ive said there was also the fact 
that Mr B was looking to borrow £500 when Cashfloat had calculated that he had over 
£1,400 of disposable income each month. So I remain of the view a fuller financial review 
was needed.
Cashfloat argues that if Mr Bs finances were under excessive pressure this would have 
been reflected on his credit check. But this wasnt the case in his individual circumstances. 
As Ive set out above further checks would have showed significant financial instability 
because Mr B was gambling heavily. 
Given Cashfloat would most likely have learnt this had it carried out proportionate checks, it 
follows I find it was wrong to have given any further loans unless it knew Mr Bs finances had 
stabilised. It has not evidenced it carried out proportionate checks to know this for loans 2 to 
4. It argues that the results of the credit check for loan 4 show Mr B was managing his 
money responsibly but, for the same reason I found this to an inaccurate conclusion at the 
time of loan 1, I dont think it can fairly argue it knew the loans to be affordable without 
having checked his finances in more detail to understand whether or not he was still 
gambling heavily.   
The lender also asked how I could reach a different conclusion when we are all working to 
the same Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. But as it knows the FCA doesnt set out 
the exact checks a lender must carry out, rather it sets out a framework to follow. But it is 
clear that a lender must have due regard for all information it gathers. And I think in this case 
Cashfloat failed to react to indications that Mr Bs finances might be under duress and 
therefore carry out further checks  which would have most likely showed he was struggling 
financially.
It follows I find Cashfloat was wrong to lend to Mr B.
Putting things right - what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Ms credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, must put things 
right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman