DRN-3898669
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc charged him interest on his credit card account but
wouldnt let him have a new credit card.
What happened
In November 2019 HSBC agreed not to charge interest on Mr Ws credit card account for six
months as he was in financial difficulties. It wrote to him in April 2020 to say the arrangement
was coming to an end. The letter said Mr W needed to contact HSBC with details of his
income and expenditure, and if he didnt it would start charging interest again. Mr W didnt
contact HSBC at this time.
In May 2020 Mr W complained to HSBC that he couldnt use his credit card. HSBC
explained that when the arrangement not to charge interest was agreed, Mr W should have
been told he wouldnt be able to use the credit card again. But because hed been given the
impression this was only a temporary restriction, and he had brought the account up to date,
HSBC agreed to let him spend on the account again. Although interest should have been
charged from May 2020, it hadnt been. HSBC said the account would start to incur interest
from the end of July 2020.
Mr W continued to spend on the account between July 2020 and October 2021. During this
time no interest was charged. In November 2021 Mr W contacted HSBC because his credit
card had expired and he wanted a new one. A new credit card hadnt been issued because
of the restriction that had been put on the account back in November 2019. The person
Mr W spoke to removed the restriction, so interest started being charged but Mr W wasnt
sent a new card.
When Mr W still hadnt received a replacement credit card in January 2022, he complained
to HSBC. By this time his account had been closed. HSBC said it had given Mr W the wrong
information when he called in November 2021. He shouldnt have been told a new card
would be issued, as given the history of the account HSBC would need to do an affordability
review before agreeing this. It also said the account had automatically closed because the
cards had expired and were no longer valid. HSBC paid Mr W £100 as compensation for the
inconvenience caused by giving him the wrong information.
Mr W says he only agreed to come off the plan because he was told he would have access
to the account. If hed been given the right information, he wouldnt have agreed to put
himself in a situation where he would incur interest but not be able to use the account. He
wants HSBC to refund all interest hes been charged since November 2021 and to pay him
additional compensation.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I didnt think HSBC 
did anything wrong by not sending Mr W a new credit card or by starting to charge him 
interest in November 2021. But as it didnt give him the right information at that time, he was 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience for which I thought HSBC should pay him a 
further £100. I said:
Looking over everything thats happened with Mr Ws credit card account since November
2019, its fair to say HSBC has made some mistakes. Most notably, HSBC didnt charge
Mr W interest for two years, when this arrangement should only have lasted six months.
Mr W has benefited significantly from this mistake  saving over £7,000 in interest according
to HSBC. But Mr W should never have been in a position where he could carry on spending
on his card and pay no interest on the account.
The reason HSBC agreed to the six-month arrangement where it wouldnt charge Mr W
interest was because he was in financial difficulties. It was to allow him a bit of breathing
space, time for his situation to improve and the opportunity for any payments he was able to
make to reduce his outstanding balance. When this sort of arrangement is put in place, it is
usual for further spending to be blocked. After all, if someone is in financial difficulties and
unable to make their contractual payments, it would be irresponsible to allow them to borrow
more money they cant afford to repay.
I mention this because it is important when considering what should have happened when
Mr W contacted HSBC in November 2021. Despite what Mr W says, it wasnt for him to
agree to come off the plan  any arrangement that had been agreed with HSBC had ended
in 2020. And I think Mr W ought reasonably to have known this after he was sent letters
confirming interest would be charged, even if it subsequently wasnt. But HSBC didnt deal
with things properly in the call and it accepts this.
HSBC says Mr W should have been referred to its Lending Team so they could review how
hed managed his account and information on his credit file to decide whether to give him
new cards. And given the history of the account, together with how much Mr W already owed
HSBC, I think this would have been a reasonable approach for HSBC to take. I think its fair
it wasnt prepared to send him new cards if this review didnt take place. Mr W was given the
option of asking for this review in HSBCs final response  I understand he didnt take up this
offer.
Turning now to the interest charged on the account since November 2021. The starting point
here is that the agreement Mr W had with HSBC was that he would pay interest on the
outstanding balance. In times of financial difficulties, it might be appropriate for HSBC to
show forbearance and stop charging interest for a short period  this is one of a range of
options that might be available if someone is unable to make their contractual payments. But 
this isnt something any customer is automatically entitled to, and it will depend on their
individual circumstances.
In the call Mr W had with HSBC in November 2021 there were some signs he might still
have been in financial difficulties, and I would have expected HSBC to pick up on this. So as
well as referring him to the Lending Team to carry out the affordability assessment for a new
card, I also think HSBC should have given Mr W the option of speaking to its Financial
Support Team if he felt he would struggle with the contractual payments. This might have led
to HSBC agreeing not to charge interest for a further period if Mr Ws financial situation was
such that this would be an appropriate forbearance measure.
Mr W wasnt charged interest from February 2022 onwards anyway. So for me to say HSBC
needs to refund any of the interest Mr W has been charged since November 2021, Id need
to be persuaded that, if HSBC had done what it should have  ie offer Mr W the option of
speaking to the Financial Support Team:
a) He would have contacted the Financial Support Team before February 2022, and
b) HSBC would have agreed not to charge him interest from that point.
I cant know for sure what would have happened, so I need to decide whats more likely.While some of what Mr W said in the call suggested he might be in financial difficulties, it
doesnt go so far as to indicate he definitely couldnt afford the payments  after all, he
wanted to carry on using the account and, when he thought he was going to get a new card,
he was prepared to pay the interest. And in the final response letter from 1 February 2022,
HSBC did tell Mr W he could contact the Financial Support Team if he was in financial
difficulty. From what I understand, he didnt do so until some months later when a payment
break was agreed.
So, while its possible HSBC might not have charged Mr W interest from November 2021 if it
had done what it should have, I think its more likely Mr W would still have been charged
interest after this time. It follows that I dont think HSBC needs to refund any of the interest
Mr W has been charged.
I understand Mr Ws frustration when he found out his account had been closed 
particularly when the reason given was that it was because he didnt have valid cards, when
at the time he still was under the impression new cards were being sent to him. And, in the
circumstances, I think HSBC should have given Mr W notice the account was being closed,
as per the terms and conditions of the account. But I dont think it did anything wrong by
closing the account when it did. In practice this has made very little difference to Mr Ws
position. Even if the account hadnt been closed, he still wouldnt have been able to spend
on it as he wasnt able to get a new card unless it was agreed by the Lending Team.
HSBC has paid Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes
caused him. I dont think this goes far enough. Mr W spent two months expecting to get a
new credit card and chased this on many occasions. He was given the wrong information
time and time again and then found out his account had been closed, without any warning. I
think HSBC should pay Mr W a further £100 to recognise the amount of distress and
inconvenience it caused by not giving Mr W the right information when he called in
November 2021.
So, in summary, I dont currently think HSBC did anything wrong by not sending Mr W a new
credit card or by starting to charge him interest in November 2021. But as it didnt give him
the right information at that time, he was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience for
which I currently think HSBC should pay him a further £100.
Mr W responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
He was charged over £1,200 interest in a time of extreme financial stress, for a 
revolving credit facility he was unable to use. He would not have been charged this 
interest if the correct information had been provided in the first place. 
The additional £100 compensation I awarded isnt anywhere near sufficient for the 
impact this has caused for over a year, when HSBC unethically charged him over 
£1,200 interest.
HSBC also disagreed with my provisional decision. It said Mr W did speak to the Financial 
Support Team on 30 November 2021, but he declined their support. It says that if Mr W had 
accepted a review with the Financial Support Team at that time, its likely interest and 
charges would have remained frozen but instead Mr W was looking for additional borrowing. 
It didnt think it should pay an extra £100 compensation given the benefit Mr W has had of 
the savings on interest and charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains that same as that set out in my provisional decision. I 
dont think HSBC needs to refund the interest and charges Mr W incurred between 
November 2021 and February 2022. But I do think HSBC should pay him a further £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr W.
Mr W has pointed to the Financial Ombudsmans approach of putting someone back into the 
position they would have been in if the mistake had not been made. In my provisional 
decision, I explained why I thought it was likely Mr W would have paid interest even if HSBC 
hadnt made any mistakes. The information HSBC has now given me about Mr Ws 
conversation with the Financial Support Team at the end of November 2021 reinforces this 
conclusion.
Mr W had an opportunity to have a proper conversation with HSBC about his extreme 
financial distress in November 2021 but the notes from that time record he didnt want any 
plan, he wanted further lending to tide him over. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
waiving interest and charges might be something a business agrees to do if someone is in 
financial difficulties, but it does depend on someones individual circumstances. And for 
HSBC to agree to do this, it would have needed a full understanding of Mr Ws situation. As 
Mr W didnt want to discuss this at the time, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude 
HSBC shouldnt have charged Mr W interest from November 2021.
If follows that any impact on Mr W of HSBC charging him interest between November 2021 
and February 2022 isnt something I think HSBC needs to compensate him for.
I understand HSBCs position that it doesnt think it should pay Mr W any additional 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused around this time. But I 
dont think its fair for it to continue to use the savings it says Mr W benefited from as a 
result of its mistake in not charging him interest for two years, as a reason not to pay him 
further compensation. 
HSBC didnt handle this situation well. It wrongly gave Mr W the impression he would be 
getting a new credit card, continued to give him incorrect information when he chased this up 
and then closed his account without any warning. It took over two months to give Mr W the 
correct information and I think it would be fair for it to pay him further compensation to 
recognise the frustration and inconvenience he was caused during this time. I therefore still 
think HSBC should pay Mr W a further £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr W £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman