DRN-3298960
The complaint
Mr G complains that, following a claim on his motor insurance policy, Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited havent offered a fair value for his car after it was stolen.
What happened
On 23 September 2021 Mr Gs car was unfortunately stolen. He made the claim the 
following day with Admiral, and after receiving their offer of £4,546 he disputed it. He said he 
paid £7,250 just six months earlier. He also said his type of car is increasing in value quite 
significantly, and he actually had the car up for sale at nearly £8,000. He also provided 
adverts to Admiral for them to consider, showing he couldnt buy another similar car for a 
similar price.
Admiral said the valuation of £4,546 was fair. They explained theyd got two valuations they 
could use, one for £4,546, and one for £3,590  so were using the maximum figure on one of 
the guides. They added this had taken into account the specific information in Mr Gs car, 
which included the type of car, it was bought from a private seller, had a full service history, 
had a valid MOT with two fails in the history, had a lower mileage of 73,567 against the 
average of 110,000, no pre-accident damage and six previous keepers.
Unhappy with this Mr G asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and in 
looking at three guides the valuation offered by Admiral was less than all three. He said the 
valuations were £6,729, £4,675 and £5,020. He added Mr G had provided some adverts, 
and one of the trade guides also provided some adverts, showing the valuation was higher 
as well. So, even though one of the guides was significantly higher he felt it appropriate for 
the average of the three guides to be used on this occasion. He calculated this at £5,474, 
and said Admiral needed to pay this, plus 8% interest on the difference in valuation figures, 
and £100 compensation.
Admiral said while they agree an increase is necessary, one of the guides is clearly an 
outlier, and in line with our usual approach, it should be disregarded. They said this meant 
the new valuation would be £4,847.50  an increase of £301.50 plus interest to Mr G, along 
with the £100 compensation. Our Investigator reiterated he didnt think the higher guide 
should be disregarded, but Admiral didnt agree.
Mr G said although our Investigators valuation was lower than his own of £7,250, he thought 
it fairer to both parties than Admirals valuation. But, as theyd disagreed he wanted to 
provide some more evidence to explain why he didnt think the higher guide should be 
considered an outlier. He said this guide is owned by a company who buy cars  and they 
use this to value cars. He also provided a further advert showing a car similar to his up for 
sale at £6,800  close to the higher guide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second-hand cars and it isnt the role of our 
service to value Mr Gs car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations Admiral used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides, and use an average of those  
which is what Admiral did. These are used for valuing second-hand cars. But well also take 
into account the evidence provided by both parties. This might include engineers reports, 
information provided by dealers and adverts, amongst other things.
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based
on research across the country and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. And, Admiral are right that often wed disregard one guide if it was 
significantly out of kilter with the rest of the evidence weve got to rely on. But, here, I agree 
with our Investigators approach and think it is appropriate to rely on the higher guide when 
calculating a fair figure.
I say that because the adverts Mr G has provided, both to Admiral and our service, do show 
some cars very similar to his with a value similar to the higher guide. So, I think there is 
enough evidence here to say, in effect, its not an outlier, because there are several adverts 
Mr G has provided of a similar figure. I can also see our Investigator saw adverts from one of 
the trade guides which also showed similar figures.
With that in mind, I think its fair for the average of the three guides to be applied. That 
comes out to £5,474 as our Investigator said. I also think its fair for Admiral to add 8% 
interest to the difference in the original valuation, to this one. And I think compensation of 
£100 is appropriate, as Mr G has been put to inconvenience at having to prove his case  
when all the information was readily available to Admiral.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Treat the cars value of £5,474  and pay any remaining amounts due to Mr G.
Add 8% interest on the difference of the original valuation from the date of the first 
payment, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Admiral must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman