DRN-3253867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Oplo HL ltd gave them a secured loan that was unaffordable. 
They consider that Oplo should reduce the interest rate it charges them.
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out a third charge secured loan with Oplo. The loan had a fixed 
interest rate of 13.5% for five years.
Mr and Mrs M consider that they should never have been given the loan. They said that their 
finances were already in a precarious position when they took this loan and it was clearly 
unaffordable for them. Mr and Mrs M said that Oplo has accepted a reduced payment 
arrangement. But they consider it should formally restructure the loan and reduce the 
interest rate. They noted that the Bank of England base rate was 0.5% at the time they 
complained.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
They had taken an interest only second charge loan less than a year before taking this 
loan. Oplo should have been aware of that.
It was unreasonable for Oplo to agree lending for non-essential home improvements, 
when they already had a large amount if secured and unsecured debt.
The loan was never affordable  they had to take further borrowing within four weeks 
after this loan to stay afloat.
The disposable income of just over £1,000 isnt enough for the size of their family and 
would not pass any sort of interest rate stress test. The income was mainly commission 
based. If the lender had used their basic income it would have not supported the amount 
they borrowed. 
Oplo should have known that they had taken payday loans. It should have regarded this 
as adverse information and that it indicated financial difficulty.
They should have been told to use the proceeds of the loan to reduce existing debt.
They have only made five payments of the contractual amount due  and that was only 
because they took further borrowing. Theyve remained on the reduced payment for over 
two and a half years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
affordability
Oplo had a duty to lend responsibly to Mr and Mrs M. It was required to carry out an 
assessment of affordability in line with the FCAs (Financial Conduct Authority) MCOB 
(Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook).
Ive looked carefully at the assessment Oplo carried out before it approved the loan. It took 
account of Mr and Mrs Ms verified net income, their committed expenditure and the cost of 
basic essential cost-of-living costs. Based on the information available to Oplo I consider it 
was reasonable for it to consider that the loan was affordable.
While a significant proportion of Mr Ms income was made up of commission, the payslips 
provided showed that this was received consistently. I consider it was reasonable for Oplo to 
take that into account. It could only make its decision on the information it was presented 
about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time the loan was taken out.
Oplo said that cost of living figures were based on ONS (Office for National Statistics) data 
on the minimum costs. After taking that and Mr and Mrs Ms committed expenditure into 
account, there was disposable income of just over £1,000 a month. I consider it was 
reasonable for the lender to consider that this was sufficient disposable income for a family 
of five, bearing in mind it had already deducted food, clothing and socialising costs for that. 
Mr and Mrs M might spend more than the minimum ONS figures. But I think it was 
reasonable for Oplo to consider that the disposable income gave them a cushion.
There was no requirement for the lender to carry out an interest rate stress test as the 
interest rate on the loan was fixed for five years. But Oplo carried out such a test and based 
on the information it had, it showed that the loan was still affordable. This is reasonable 
based on the information available to it.
Overall, I consider it was reasonable for Oplo to consider the lending was affordable and to 
lend Mr and Mrs M the amount it did based on the information it had at the time of sale.
responsible lending
While the lending was affordable, I need to decide whether in my opinion the decision to lend 
to Mr and Mrs M was reasonable looking at all of the information that was available to the 
lender. It is not for me to interfere in the legitimate lending decisions that Oplo makes. But I 
can consider whether it reached its decision fairly.
I agree with Mr and Mrs M that Oplo should have regard for their wider circumstances. For 
example their payment history with creditors, the amount of credit they had taken and if they 
had taken a lot of credit in a short space of time. I dont agree that the existence of payday 
loans in itself would be enough for a lender to decline an application for borrowing. It should 
always be an objective look at all of the information it had. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Ms payments were all up to date at the time of the lending. 
While they had taken payday loan in 2017, that was sometime before this loan was taken out 
and I dont consider that would make Oplos decision to lend in 2019 unreasonable or unfair.
Looking at the frequency of borrowing by Mr and Mrs M, I dont consider that was any reason for Oplo not to lend. I dont agree that the information it suggested the degree of 
financial difficulty Mr and Mrs M have said.
Oplo wasnlt giving Mr and Mrs M advice. It was not for it to suggest that Mr and Mrs M 
should use the money they raised for a different purpose. There was no reason why it could 
not lend to Mr and Mrs M for home improvements.
interest rate
It is for Oplo to decide what interest rates it charges. It was for Mr and Mrs M to decide 
whether to accept Oplos offer of a loan on those terms. The interest rate was set out clearly 
and prominently on the loan offer. 
While the Bank of England rate was significantly lower than the interest rate charged by 
Oplo, it does not follow that the interest rate it charged was unfair. It reflects the appetite of 
the lender. That risk is likely to be higher as it holds a third charge over Mr and Mrs Ms 
home.
forbearance
Oplo has not applied any interest to Mr and Mrs Ms loan for some time. I consider this is a 
reasonable concession for a lender to take in these circumstances and in line with good 
practice. It has said that it would consider a more formal restructure. Mr and Mrs M should 
continue to engage with Oplo  and it should consider any requests from them fairly
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman