DRN-3573445
The complaint
Mr S Complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with Everyday Loans in September 2018, the loan was for £2,000 to be 
repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £209.59. At the end of the term, Mr S was due to 
repay £5,030.16. 
The information available suggest theres still a balance outstanding on the loan.
When Mr S complained to Everyday Loans, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he referred 
it to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt 
think Everyday Loans had done anything wrong.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision but hasnt provided reasons why he disagrees with 
the adjudicators view, so I dont know what he disagrees with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
Everyday Loans has showed that before lending to Mr S, it asked him about his income and 
expenses, searched his credit file and verified his income and expenses through his bank 
statements and payslips.
I think Everyday Loans checks went far enough. Ive thought about what those checks 
showed and whether Everyday Loans should have been concerned about Mr S being able to 
repay the loan and therefore not lent.
The checks showed that Mr S had a regular income which included his wages and benefits. 
Mr S had a low level of credit commitments and taking into account his monthly outgoings 
against his income he had sufficient disposable.
There was nothing within the checks that I think should have concerned Everyday Loans 
about Mr S ability to repay the loan or that repaying the loan would have been unsustainable 
for him. So, I dont think it was wrong to lend to him.
As the loan is currently outstanding, Id remind Everyday Loans of its duty to treat Mr S with 
forbearance should he need help repaying the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman