DRN-3817920
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Moneybarn No.1 Limited incorrectly reported arrears on his credit file, 
refused to accept a reduced payment arrangement, and failed to call him when agreed.
What happened
On 23 November 2020, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. He paid an advance payment of £400 and the agreement was 
for £11,590 over 47 months; with monthly repayments of £499.54.
Mr F had previously complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about how Moneybarn 
dealt with his agreement. We upheld this complaint and it was agreed that Moneybarn would 
amend his credit file to remove any reported arrears up to and including August 2021. Mr F 
says they didnt do this and, as a result, it affected his ability to use the contactless function 
on his bank card. And it meant that he incurred higher travel costs as a result.
Mr F didnt make the payments for November 2021, December 2021, or January 2022. He 
then paid Moneybarn £200 a month until April 2022, recommencing full payments from May 
2022 onwards.
Mr F complained to Moneybarn about their failure to amend his credit file; that they wouldnt 
agree to him making reduced payments; that they failed to call him when requested; and that 
they continued to send him arrears letters. Moneybarn accepted they didnt correct Mr Fs 
credit file for August 2021, amended this, and reduced his arrears balance by £120, by way 
of compensation. They also acknowledged theyd given Mr F conflicting information about 
when theyd call him and reduced his arrears balance by an additional £75 by way of 
compensation. They also agreed to pass Mr Fs account to a specialist team to provide him 
with additional support.
Mr F wasnt happy with Moneybarns response and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen nothing to show the issue with the credit file and Mr F being 
unable to use his bank card for contactless payments were connected. And he didnt think 
they would be, as Moneybarn were unconnected to Mr Fs bank. Given this, he thought the 
£120 compensation Moneybarn had offered for their error in correcting the credit file was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator also said hed listened to the March 2022 call between Mr F and Moneybarn 
when Mr F provided his income and expenditure details. And, even after including all Mr Fs 
medical and travel expenses, this showed he had a disposable income of more than £1,700 
a month. So, he thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably by not agreeing a reduced 
payment. The investigator also said that, while Moneybarn had subsequently told Mr F that 
the income and expenditure information was entered into Moneybarns system incorrectly, 
he hadnt seen anything to show this was actually the case.
Finally, the investigator said that, as Mr F was in arrears, Moneybarn hadnt done anything 
wrong by writing to him to let him know this. But there had been a problem when Moneybarn 
called Mr F to discuss his account, and these calls werent always made at the times Mr F 
had asked for. But he thought the £75 Moneybarn had offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Moneybarn had told him the income and 
expenditure form had been filled in incorrectly. And that they also told him they would call 
him on certain days but didnt do this. Which resulted in them calling him to provide income 
and expenditure details when he didnt have it available.
Because Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that, when amending Mr Fs credit file, Moneybarn initially failed to remove 
the arrears marker for August 2021. And this wasnt done until Mr F contacted them about 
this. However, Ive not seen anything to link this error with Mr F not being able to use his 
bank card for contactless payments  there are many reasons why contactless payments 
cant be used, including (but not limited to) a new bank card not being activated for 
contactless, or the contactless limit being reached, meaning the card would need to be used 
as a chip and pin to allow for contactless payments to be reactivated. And this is something 
Mr F would need to raise with his bank to find out the reason. But, based on what Ive seen, 
its not something I can hold Moneybarn responsible for.
Ive listened to the call between Mr F and Moneybarn when the income and expenditure form 
was completed. During this call Mr F confirmed he had a total monthly income of £4,489, 
and a total monthly expenditure of £2,738, plus £25 he paid to his credit card. This figure 
included his travel and accommodation costs for medical appointments, which Mr F said was 
£840 a month. But he also said he was expecting this to halve in around three months.
Ive also seen a copy of the income and expenditure form Moneybarn completed during this 
call. This shows an income of £4,489 a month, and outgoings of £2,738 a month. These 
outgoings included the full £499.54 payment to Moneybarn, as well as the costs of running 
the car (tax, insurance, maintenance, fuel etc.) and the £840 Mr F had advised them of 
(detailed as care and health costs). Taking this into account, as well as the payments Mr F 
made to his credit card, Mr F was left with more than £1,700 a month disposable income.While I appreciate that Mr F wanted Moneybarn to reduce his payment to £200, for around 
three-months, to give him a cushion against a potential increase in future medical travel and 
accommodation costs; given the amount of disposable income Mr F had confirmed he had, I 
dont think Moneybarn acted unreasonably by not agreeing to this.
Mr F has subsequently told us that his medical travel and accommodation costs had 
increased to around £400 a week for a period of six to eight weeks. And hes provided some 
evidence of this. This is around £760 a month more than the £840 Moneybarn had 
accounted for. But it would still have left Mr F with around £900 a month disposable income 
for this period. As such, had Mr F told Moneybarn of this increase, I dont think it wouldve 
been reasonable for them to have agreed a reduced payment  Mr F could still clearly afford 
the full payment.
However, where Moneybarn have made an error, was in telling Mr F in a subsequent phone 
call that his medical travel and accommodation expenses hadnt been included in the income 
and expenditure calculation. While being told this would be upsetting for Mr F, and lead him 
to think that a payment arrangement couldve been put in place; for the reasons already 
given, Im satisfied that these expenses were taken into consideration by Moneybarn when 
they looked at his request for a temporary payment reduction.
In respect of the arrears letters, Mr F is unhappy that Moneybarn have sent these to him. 
However, its clear from what Ive seen that he was behind with his payments. And 
Moneybarn had a regulatory requirement to send him certain notifications. I appreciate Mr F 
was seriously ill, and that he was frustrated with how Moneybarn were acting, so he would 
find any such letters to be unwarranted and unacceptable. But, as Ive said, Moneybarn were 
required to send these. So, I dont think they were acting in a threatening or harassing way.
Finally, Moneybarn have also acknowledged they didnt always call Mr F on the days he 
asked them to. I can see how frustrating this wouldve been for Mr F, especially as they then 
called him at times when he was undergoing medical treatment. However, Im satisfied that 
the £75 they paid him for this inconvenience, in addition to the £120 they previously paid, is 
in line with what Id have asked them to pay had no offer been made.
As such, for the reasons stated, Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted reasonably, and I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman