DRN-4198065
The complaint
S complains that Covea Insurance plc were unfair in rejecting their claim for fire damage to 
business equipment.
What happened
S had a Tradesmen & Professionals insurance policy with Covea. The policy provided cover 
for liability, as well as £60,000 on an All Risks basis for Constructional Plant, also referred to 
in policy documents as Contractors Plant and Own Plant.
Unfortunately, a fire broke out in the property which neighboured Ss premises. The fire 
spread and damaged some of Ss business equipment, for which they submitted a claim.
Covea rejected the claim, they said the equipment wasnt covered because it didnt fall within 
the definition of Constructional Plant. They also said they thought S, and their insurance 
broker, knew the policy wasnt suitable because they had sought alternative quotes for cover 
shortly before the fire.
S didnt agree, so an investigator here looked into the matter. The investigator said Coveas 
main reason for saying the equipment wasnt Constructional Plant was because it was static, 
yet no such exclusion or term was included in the policy. They went on to recommend the 
claim be reconsidered on the basis that equipment fell within the definition of Constructional 
Plant. S accepted this recommendation.
Covea maintained their stance and reiterated that they thought both S and the broker knew 
the cover was insufficient due to the request for alternative quotes shortly before the fire.
The investigator explained that the quotes were requested due to additional equipment 
having been bought, and that the reason the new policy hadnt been taken up was because 
it was awaiting delivery.
Covea didnt have anything further to add, and didnt challenge the investigators findings 
further on either point. But they did ask for an ombudsman to decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The best place to start here is with the relevant policy wording. There appears to be no 
dispute that the policy provides cover up to £60,000 for Constructional Plant. The policy 
summary, and Coveas final response letter, defines it as follows:
Constructional Plant
Constructional plant, scaffolding, tackle, equipment, site huts or caravans (other than tools) 
belonging to You for use in connection with the Business whilst at the Contract Site or at 
Your Premises
I agree with the investigator, the definition includes equipment (which is a fair description of 
what is being claimed for). It belonged to the claimants and was for use in connection with 
their business. The damage was caused whilst at the claimants premises.
In view of that, it isnt unreasonable for it to be considered as falling within the above 
definition. I do accept, however, that Covea may not have intended for its definition to be 
interpreted in that way and may  as has been suggested  have been intended for things 
such as forklift trucks and excavators, equipment that can be/is moved from site to site. 
Although it is worth noting that I wouldnt consider it unusual for a business to have a forklift 
truck for use solely on their premises.
But, the policy doesnt go as far as explaining these nuances, nor does it say equipment 
solely for use at the premises isnt covered. In the absence of such clarity, the interpretation 
of the business equipment being covered is a reasonable one in this particular case. Further, 
the policy literature refers to the cover being for Contractors Plant as well as Own Plant  
and plant actually indicates items which are fixed (i.e. static).
Turning to the issue of whether S and/or their broker knew the policy was unsuitable for 
them, I dont agree they did. The brokers notes show S enquired about additional cover, as 
opposed to a change in cover. They also show that an increase in cover was requested due 
to new machinery.
So, I dont agree that S or the broker had believed the original policy to be anything other 
than suitable for the equipment claimed for  not at the time of inception nor the time of the 
claim. And whats most important to consider, is what cover was actually in place at the time 
of loss.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to 
reconsider Ss claim, on the basis that static business equipment falls within the definition of 
Constructional Plant. If payment is due, interest should be added at the rate of 8% per 
annum simple, accruing one month from the date of claim until the date payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman