DRN-2929199
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as O complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Miss D who is a director of O brings the complaint on Os behalf.
What happened
O has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Miss D made a claim 
on that policy to cover Os losses arising from the business closure as a result of the 
national Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Miss D didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy meant that her claim 
should be covered.
Miss D complained to Covea but it explained that, although this policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Miss D wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Miss Ds complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that, while she sympathised with Miss Ds situation, she didnt think there was cover 
available under the policy. Miss D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D is looking to claim on Os business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining this claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Miss D took out. 
Os policy included an extension which provided cover for infectious diseases. The policy 
states that it provides cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to
prevent or restrict access to the premises arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises

e) the occurrence within 25 miles of the premises of a notifiable human infectious 
or contagious disease
The policy provides a definition for the term Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. 
However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does 
now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that subsequently 
became notifiable. In contrast, Os policy includes a list of notifiable diseases as it was at a 
particular time. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be 
provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases 
which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without 
Coveas prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover 
to those diseases listed within the policy. 
There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including 
prevention of access. However they require there to be physical damage to property in order 
for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 caused physical damage 
to property, I dont think these terms provide cover in these circumstances
Miss D also referred to the Supreme Court Judgment on the FCAs test case. However the 
test case didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether the claim should be paid still 
depends on the specific terms contained in the policy. And having considered these, I dont 
think there are any terms that would provide cover in these circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on O. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think Covea acted unfairly in declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman