DRN-1044058
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Ms E says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1996 Ms E took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Neither party can be 
sure how the sale came about. But the assumption made  an assumption I think is 
reasonable - is that things happened during a branch meeting.
The policy was designed to protect Ms Es mortgage payment in the event she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. It cost around £12 a month it provided a 
monthly benefit of £250.
BoS' records show the mortgage account closed in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. They said because things happened so long 
ago theres very limited information now available. So they didn't think they could fairly say 
BoS didn't present PPI as being optional. And there was nothing to indicate the policy was 
wrong or unsuitable for Ms E.
Because Ms E disagrees, the complaint comes to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
handling PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided Ms Es not lost out as a result of having PPI with her mortgage. I've set out my 
reasons below.
Did Ms E have a choice about PPI?
I think, on balance BoS made it clear that Ms E didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
BoS hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork from the time. And this isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place  its also been over 15 years since the mortgage 
account closed. Businesses arent obliged to keep records forever.So given the limited information about an event which happened more than 20 years ago, 
Ive not seen enough to persuade me that BoS failed to make it clear PPI was optional or 
that Ms E didnt agree to take it out.  
The advice       
Because this was likely a branch sale, I think BoS recommended the PPI to Ms E. So it had 
to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover, such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances. 
I can see Ms E says she had savings to fall back on and her redundancy pay wouldve 
lasted for 18 months. But Ms E says she didn't have any sick pay; albeit I think she'd have 
been entitled to statutory sick pay. So I think she wouldve quickly used up any savings if she 
found herself unable to work for an extended period  I think her finances would quickly 
come under strain. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim, and so I think it couldve helped 
her out financially at what would likely be a difficult time. Any redundancy pay and/or savings 
Ms E had couldve been held back or used to pay other  ongoing commitments and 
household expenditure.
I therefore dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended Ms E take out PPI.
The information
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her as I said if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesn't need to do anything to put things right.
Ive thought about everything Ms E has said - including what shes said in response to the 
adjudicators opinion. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman