DRN-1466054
 Complaint
Mr and Mrs E, who are represented by a third party, say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), then 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy 
they bought to go with some joint mortgage borrowing in June 1999.
Background
Mr and Mrs E say they never knew theyd bought the policy and didnt need it. It covered 
only Mr E. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed on to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs E said the policy was sold during a meeting. Based on the documents Ive seen, 
it looks to me as if the policy was sold during a meeting at a BoS branch. And BoS has told 
us that it recommended Mr and Mrs E take out the cover. That means it had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr E and that the information provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I havent seen anything to suggest BoS didnt do this. 
Ive looked carefully at the documents from the time of sale. I can see Mr and Mrs E 
completed one application form for their mortgage and a separate one for the MPPI. The 
MPPI application was completed electronically so it seems likely a discussion about the 
policy took place beforehand and the application was completed as a result of this. The 
application is called Mortgage Repayment Insurance Application and has been signed by 
Mr E so I think BoS made it clear Mr and Mrs E were applying for a separate product. 
Mr E was eligible for the MPPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. I see this from the screenshot information weve been sent that this was 
checked by BoS at the time he and Mrs E took out the policy. So I dont think Mr E would 
have found it difficult if he needed to make a claim. 
Mr E said he was entitled to some benefits from his employer  he thinks this was for around 
6 months. He also told us he had some savings he could have used to help make 
repayments. So Ive taken this into account consideration but I still think the policy was 
suitable. This is because the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months following a 
successful claim and wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and savings 
Mr and Mrs E had. Given the serious potential consequences of defaulting on mortgage repayments  even for a relatively modest amount - I think they wouldve found the policy 
useful. 
The policy cost £22.27 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £450.00. So 
if a Mr E made a successful claim, I think the policy would have benefitted him more than it 
cost. The cost and benefit of the cover was set out on the application form  so I think BoS 
made him aware of this before he signed for the policy. 
Its possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr E would have been affected by 
any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mr and Mrs E change their 
minds about taking out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman