DRN-3421208
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out an annual travel insurance policy in August 2019 to cover their family. 
They added gadget cover to the policy but didnt take out any other additional cover options. 
They had a holiday booked to a country Ill refer to as C in July 2020 and booked the flights 
and accommodation independently. Their first hotel was booked for three nights. 
Due to the ongoing impact of Covid-19 the airline moved their flights a number of times. As a 
result Mr and Mrs A cancelled their first hotel and booked an alternative hotel for one night 
so theyd be close to the airport and would also be able to catch a ferry to the next place on 
their itinerary. The original hotel booking was non-refundable but the hotel offered to move 
the booking to the following year. At a later date the hotel extended the offer to move the 
dates until 2022 and the option to transfer the booking to someone else. 
Mr and Mrs A claimed on their travel insurance policy for the three nights accommodation, 
totalling £930. They say that this represented a small part of the overall cost of the trip. 
Mapfre declined the claim because they said that Mr and Mrs A had recovered their losses 
because theyd been offered a credit note towards a future trip. Mr and Mrs A complained 
but Mapfre maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs A made a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Although 
she thought that the terms offered by the hotel were restrictive, based on Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances, she said there was no cover for these circumstances under the policy terms 
and conditions. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In summary, they say they are claiming for a small amount of the total holiday 
cost, the policy isnt fit for purpose and theyd bought the policy in good faith prior to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I dont think that the terms of the voucher are so unreasonably restrictive that it would be 
unreasonable for Mr and Mrs A to accept it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A didnt want to use the 
voucher as the hotel was no longer convenient for their amended travel plans. And, I can 
also understand why they didnt want to go back to C to use the voucher when theyd 
updated their itinerary. But, ultimately, theyve been offered the opportunity to rebook at a 
future date, for the same price, or to transfer the voucher to someone else. I dont think, in 
the circumstances of this case that means the terms of the voucher were particularly 
restrictive.
But, even if I accepted the voucher was restrictive for Mr and Mrs A, Im not upholding this 
complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs A didnt cancel or cut short their trip. Their travel plans changed due to 
the impact of Covid-19 on flights. And, the cancellation section only offers cover in 
certain circumstances, such as illness, quarantine, a requirement to attend court, 
redundancy, cancellation of annual leave or a residential burglary. Mr and Mrs A 
didnt cancel their trip, or amend it, for any of those reasons 
There is no cover under the catastrophe section of cover. Although this offers cover 
in the event of a medical epidemic Mr and Mrs A werent forced to move from their 
pre-booked accommodation due to Covid-19. They amended their itinerary when 
their flights were changed. So, I cant fairly conclude that Mapfre should consider the 
claim under that section of cover. 
Ive also taken into account the cover for delayed departure and holiday 
abandonment. This offers cover in the event of delayed departure due to strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather or mechanical breakdown. So, this section also 
doesnt offer cover for the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs A found themselves. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs A have said about the policy not being fit for 
purpose and that this information was in the small print of the policy. Insurers are 
entitled to specify the risks they are prepared to cover  no policy covers every 
eventuality. Mr and Mrs A didnt take out enhanced travel disruption cover as its not 
listed on the schedule of insurance. Paying an additional premium for travel 
disruption covered offered a higher level of cover and would have likely covered them 
for unused accommodation costs in the event their flight was delayed by more than 
12 hours or cancelled. 
I dont think there are any fair and reasonable grounds for Mapfre to depart from the 
policy terms in the circumstances of this case. Unfortunately, the circumstances 
arent covered by this policy. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs A have concerns about the sale of the policy. That is 
subject to a separate complaint and I make no finding about whether the policy was 
mis-sold.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman