DRN-3726182
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr H was the victim of a safe account scam.
Mr H says on 6 December 2021, he received a call from scammers posing as HSBC who 
alerted him that there was unusual activity on his bank account. He says they explained that 
standing orders were being set up and pending and therefore needed to be pushed through 
to a safe account. 
Mr H says it is likely that during the security check with the scammer, he disclosed 
information that allowed the scammer to access his online banking  as it was the scammer 
that made the payments rather than him. The scammer convinced Mr H that his other 
accounts may also be at risk and to transfer these to his HSBC account for onward 
movement.
In order to push through these payments, Mr H says he was asked to send funds to one of 
the named beneficiaries on his account  a friend of Mr Hs - I will refer to as C. The plan 
was that C would send these funds back to HSBC and money placed into a new account for 
Mr H with HSBC. The scammer then called C and directed her through the payments. A total 
of £10,000 was sent to C and then C sent a total of £6,715 to the scammers before the rest 
was stopped by her own bank. C returned the remaining funds to Mr H  so Mr Hs total loss 
is £6,715.
HSBC intervened when a further attempt for another £10,000 was made using the access Mr 
H had unwittingly given the scammer during the call. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in full. She didnt think HSBC had provided an 
effective warning or had established Mr H did not have a reasonable basis for belief. She 
also felt the activity was unusual and ought to have flagged with the bank.
HSBC did not agree this complaint should be considered under the CRM Code  as it felt 
Cs bank was best placed to deal with the case because the money went directly to the 
scammer. In any event, in terms of the case being considered under the CRM Code, it didnt 
agree it should be upheld. It said:
It can only be expected to give an effective warning where a scam risk has been 
identified and it does not accept that a scam risk had or should have been identified 
in this case because the money was going to Mr Hs friend - a known payee.
At the time of the call, the balance in Mr Hs account was £226.22. It made no 
plausible sense that in order to protect his money within his HSBC account it should 
be necessary for Mr H to first transfer funds from an account held with another bank, 
into the account held with HSBC (which was apparently under threat) and then to 
another non-HSBC account held by a friend. 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 February 2023 explaining why I was reaching a 
decision that differed in some respects to that of our investigators opinion.
HSBC said, on a gesture of good will basis, it would accept my decision and refund Mr H in 
line with it. It added that whilst I rely on a November 2021 Lending Standards Board (LSB) 
paper as support that the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
applies, and that it applies so as to hold a paying bank liable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, the industry in its subsequent discussions with the LSB made clear that it does 
not concur with this approach. The clear industry view on multi-generational complaints such 
as this is that, subject to the merits, the payment service provider from which the funds were 
transferred to the scammer should bear responsibility. 
Mr H also responded as follows:
He is disappointed to be offered a partial refund. He feels it is easier to review the evidence 
with hindsight and take the view he should have realised. Looking back, he can see all the 
red flags that he didnt question early enough. But in the heat of the moment when you are 
panicking and thinking someone is trying to hack your account and someone else is trying to 
help you, you do have that blinded trust to let them help. The scammer did what Mr H 
considered was a believable security check. The answers to those questions gave the 
scammer details to access his account - but Mr H feels the scammer was clever making it 
sound legitimate at the time. The main issue he has is that he doesnt consider HSBC have 
done anything to help this situation. It wasnt just a few pounds but tens of thousands which - 
in his 15-year history with the bank  he has never moved so much money - certainly not in 
such rapid transactions. He understands that a payment to a verified payee makes it more 
obscure. HSBC only blocked the third £10,000 transaction because he asked them to. They 
offered him little or no support and put all the responsibility on the beneficiary bank.
Mr H did say he will accept the refund suggested but asked me to really consider whether 
HSBC did everything they could to help protect and recover his funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Did Mr H authorise the transactions?
The question of authorisation is a key one in a case of this kind. Because, although its not in 
dispute that Mr H didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, he is presumed liable in the first 
instance if he authorised the transactions. 
When Mr H first reported the scam to HSBC, he did tell the bank he had shared secure 
information with the fraudsters. He gave the fraudsters what they asked for under the guise 
of them facilitating the payments for him.  
Theres no suggestion of how else the fraudsters were able to obtain this unique set of data. 
Consequently, its highly unlikely the payment was executed without Mr H sharing this 
information  albeit he was tricked into doing so.
By providing his secure account details to the scammer, Mr H provided apparent authority 
for the disputed transactions to be carried out. The two £5,000 payments were therefore 
authorised, even though Mr H was the victim of a scam. 
Should the case be considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code?
 
HSBC is signatory to the Lending Standards Board (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). But it doesnt agree this case should be considered under the 
CRM Code. It thinks Mr Hs friends (C) bank is best placed to deal with the case because 
the money went directly to the scammer from Cs account. However, I dont agree.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt agree with HSBC  with reference the 
LSBs call for input findings in November 2021. In this document LSB made it clear that the 
investigation of multi-generation scams, such as this, should be captured within the scope of 
the CRM Code.
In its findings, LSB acknowledged that, while the CRM Code may not have been drafted with 
multigeneration scams in mind, firms should be attempting to investigate and include all 
parties within this process, ultimately with the aim of reimbursing the customer.
Specifically, with reference to multigeneration scams, the LSB said:
These scams, sometimes referred to as friends and family scams, typically involve a 
customer being duped into increasing the number of transactions and/or payees involved in 
the scam (for example, being convinced to transfer funds to a family member who in turn is 
asked to further forward them, onto the scammers account). While the funds have been 
moved to a trusted third party, in that they are a friend or family member, the payment has 
left the control of the payee. This approach seeks to evade the detection and preventative 
measures of the Code []And it went on to say:
When assessing such cases under the Code, firms should take into account that:  
A firms assessment of the case should fully explore the circumstances of the scam which 
looks beyond where the scam originated to enable the firm to fully consider the individual 
customers case
. Consideration should be given to the full circumstances of the scam and the point at 
which the funds moved out of the customers control, i.e. because the funds were moved to 
a friend or family member does not, in our view, preclude it from being considered under the 
Code. 
Whether the scam originates at a Code signatory or otherwise, when a customer of Code 
signatory reports the scam, we would expect signatory firms to be assessing the case under 
the Code. It is through the assessment of the claim that the firm will be able to establish the 
full circumstances of what has happened, which includes whether the customer reporting the 
scam has incurred any loss.
In response to my provisional decision, I have noted what HSBC has said about the industry 
view to LSBs findings and that it considers, subject to the merits, the bank where the funds 
were transferred should take responsibility. 
But I dont agree with this view - which contradicts the approach set out by LSB. And 
specifically, when considering the merits of this particular case, I think it fair and reasonable 
for HSBC to take responsibility. The loss being considered here is Mr Hs loss and Mr H was 
the primary victim of the scam  so I think this is the appropriate place for the case. 
Being the party that has suffered a financial loss here, Mr H reported the matter to HSBC. 
Receiving its customers report of the scam, and in its capacity as the victims bank, HSBC 
then has the principal responsibility for investigating and responding to the scam report. I 
consider that HSBC is also then responsible under the CRM Code for both the 
reimbursement decision and for reimbursement of the victim. 
Having consider HSBCs response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view, the loss 
here is Mr Hs loss and therefore moving his money to a friend does not preclude it from 
being considered under the CRM Code. So, I have gone on to consider Mr Hs case under 
the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that: 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Did Mr H make the payments without a reasonable basis for belief?
I need to consider not just whether Mr H believed he was sending money to a safe account, 
but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr H took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction and whether it was reasonable for 
him to proceed with the payments. I have reconsidered everything in light of Mr Hs further submissions. Specifically, I have 
considered Mr Hs circumstances in which he received the call and taken into account the 
pressure he would likely have been under and lack of time to think clearly in the moment of a 
call like this. 
I accept this is a finely balanced case, but overall, I still dont consider Mr H had a 
reasonable basis for believing the person he was transacting with was legitimate for the 
reasons I outlined in my provisional decision. In summary those reasons were:
C  who I understand had previously worked for another bank and Mr H told us 
deals with things like fraud - questioned what Mr H was telling her. She said it was 
a bit weird and told Mr H shed never heard of a bank doing this before.
Mr Hs HSBC account did not have much in at the time of the call. The premise on 
which the whole movement of money was based seems odd to me. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr H may have felt there was urgency to move the money out of his 
account, once with C it was technically safe again and there ought reasonably to 
have been time to reflect on the request being made.
Even if it was reasonable to believe a representative from one bank would know this 
about the risk to his other bank account - it seems odd to move that money into an 
allegedly unsecure account before moving it on - rather than direct to C or direct to 
his new safe account.
Mr H himself says he ought to have hung up and called back, that it was blind trust, 
felt weird and not right.
I accept that M H says he verified the number  which was either spoofed or very similar to 
HSBCs official number. I also accept that calls like this are designed to create pressure and 
disrupt the victims thinking. But there was time to message C and C questioned Mr H about 
what the bank was asking him to do. C had some knowledge of fraud and I think the 
movement of money sounded odd.  Once the money was with C it was safe and there was 
time to reflect and question the red flags.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine 
situation or wouldve proceeded without doing more investigation and checks to verify all the 
information they were given  which I think wouldve shown inconsistencies and issues in the 
information provided. 
Did HSBC meet its standards under the CRM Code?
HSBC is right that the CRM Code does say a firm only needs to provide an effective 
warning, where it identifies a scam risk in the payment journey. It seems here HSBC did not 
provide a warning and doesnt consider it needed to because the payment was going to an 
existing beneficiary. It feels such payments to friends or family will be deemed as low risk. It 
says a very significant number of such payments will be genuine payment journeys and 
providing warnings in these circumstances would be operationally unworkable.
I do accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And those 
arrangements do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise, and 
it will be impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments 
being delayed considerably and inconveniently. 
Again, I think this is a finely balanced case in terms of the point at which I think the bank 
ought reasonably to have identified a potential fraud risk.As the investigator said  Mr H did not spend large sums on the account. Before the 
transactions in question he made two deposits for £10,000 a minute apart, followed by the 
first transfer of £5,000 four minutes later and almost immediately a second transfer of £5,000 
is made. I accept that the first payment might be deemed low risk because it was a known 
beneficiary  but given the overall pattern and activity, I think there was enough going on 
here (taking into account it was a known beneficiary) that by the second £5,000 transfer, 
HSBC ought reasonably to have identified a potential scam risk and provided a warning.
I have noted Mr Hs comments in response to my provisional decision but as Ive said above, 
I do accept that Mr H had not made such large payments in and out of the account. But I 
need to balance this against the fact that to the bank, the payments in were from Mr Hs own 
account elsewhere and the transfers out appeared genuinely authorised payments and to an 
existing payee. On the face of it, it seems to me that that there was no reason why the first 
payment wouldnt have seemed genuine, even with the proceeding £10,000 payments in. 
But by the second transfer of £5,000 out of his account, I think a pattern had emerged and 
by that point the overall activity ought reasonably to have been a concern.
HSBC should fairly and reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For the reasons already explained, I think it ought reasonably to 
have intervened on the second £5,000 transaction to C. Had it done so; I think the scam 
would have been uncovered.
Overall, as both parties ought to have done more here, I consider the fair outcome in this 
case would be for HSBC to reimburse 50% of the second payment. I am not asking HSBC to 
refund part of the first payment because I dont think it needed to do anymore under the 
CRM Code at this point.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr H as I am not upholding it in 
full. I sympathise with his circumstances and I am sorry he has fallen victim to a scam. But 
having considered all the evidence and arguments, I think this is the fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above and within my provisional decision, I require HSBC UK Bank 
Ltd to: 
Refund 50% of the second £5,000 payment Mr H made from his HSBC account  a 
total of £2,500. 
Add interest on the above refund at the originating account rate from the date the 
payments left Mr Hs account to the date of settlement. If the originating account was 
not interest-bearing then no interest should be paid. 1.
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.With the above in mind, it seems the £5,000 originated from Mr Hs current account with 
another bank but may have been transferred into that account from a savings account. I 
think its more likely than not that, if Mr H hadnt fallen victim to this scam, he wouldve left 
that money in the account it originated from.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman