DRN-3662836
The complaint
X has complained that the overdraft facility on his HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) account was 
unaffordable and the charges applied to it have left him in persistent debt. 
What happened
X complained to HSBC regarding the affordability of his overdraft and that the charges 
applied were leaving him in persistent debt.to his overdraft. HSBC said it couldnt look at the 
increase in Xs overdraft limit as the last increase happened over six years ago. HSBC says 
all the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and it was Xs responsibility to get in touch with it if he was in financial difficulty.
Xs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having reviewed Xs 
statements from November 2015 that there werent any signs X was in financial difficulty and 
didnt think HSBC had applied charges unfairly.
X disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  So the complaint came to me for a 
decision. I issued my provisional decision in July 2022. In my provisional decision, 
I explained why I was proposing to uphold Xs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC provided bank statements of another of Xs accounts which showed he 
didnt have sufficient funds in this account to pay back his overdraft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im currently intending to find that HSBC 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 
November 2016.  By this point, it ought to have been clear that X was in no position to 
sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, HSBC ought to have realised that Xs use of his overdraft was unsustainable. 
Xs statements show significant gambling and that he was consistently overdrawn and near 
the top of his limit. In these circumstances, HSBC ought to have realised that X was at a 
significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. 
HSBC say it was Xs responsibility to get in contact with it if he was in financial difficulty. But 
HSBC on its own admission says it wrote to X 47 times regarding the use of his overdraft  
so I think it was clearly aware X wasnt using the overdraft as intended. HSBC should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated X with forbearance rather 
than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
X ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended up 
exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt treat  
X fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it should put 
things right.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration and 
HSBC cant show X had sufficient funds in another account to pay off his overdraft I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Xs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Xs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact X to arrange a suitable repayment plan, X is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable 
agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Xs 
credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 2016 HSBC can 
also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave X over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to X along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC should 
remove any adverse information from Xs credit file. HSBC can also reduce Xs 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
X a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Xs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and direct 
it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 Caroline Davies
Ombudsman