DRN-3954360
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money they lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs W were looking to buy a lawnmower, and found one at a very 
low price on a foreign website. They made an international transfer of around £1,800 to pay 
for it, but the seller said they didnt receive the payment, and the item was not delivered.
Four days after the payment went through, Mr and Mrs W asked Lloyds to confirm whether 
the seller had received it or not. They raised the possibility that they might have been 
scammed.
That same day, Lloyds contacted the receiving bank to ask whether the seller had received 
the payment or not. After receiving no reply, Lloyds asked for the funds to be returned to Mr 
and Mrs W. It also tried contacting the receiving banks head office and sponsor bank. But 
the receiving bank did not co-operate or reply at the time. In October 2022, the receiving 
bank finally got in touch to confirm that no funds remained.
Mr and Mrs W felt Lloyds should have done more to try to get their money back. Lloyds 
didnt think it was liable for Mr and Mrs Ws loss. It did offer them £100 compensation for 
some customer service issues.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had good reason to flag or block the payment. And while 
they accepted Lloyds could have asked for the payment to be returned earlier, they didnt 
see that this wouldve made a difference as the receiving bank werent co-operating. They 
agreed Lloyds customer service couldve been better, but felt the offer of £100 was fair. 
Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to look at their case afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should clarify that the Financial Ombudsman Service is here to informally resolve 
individual complaints about individual situations. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA for short) who regulate the way the industry works. Mr and Mrs W raised a 
number of concerns about Lloyds overall processes and the banking system as a whole. But 
Im not best placed to comment on those  I dont have the power to consider or change the 
banking system or the way Lloyds does things across the board. Instead, Ill focus my 
decision on how Lloyds handled things in Mr and Mrs Ws individual situation.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs W fell victim to a scam, and so they have my sympathy. 
I appreciate this cant have been an easy time for them, and I appreciate why they feel that 
their money should be returned. But having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I cant fairly hold Lloyds liable for their loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs W authorised the payment. So although they didnt intend 
the money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations they are liable for 
the loss in the first instance. In other words, Mr and Mrs W are generally responsible for the 
payments they choose to make themselves. And broadly speaking, Lloyds had an obligation 
to follow their instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process 
payments that a customer authorises them to make. 
Further, its the scammer who was primarily responsible for Mr and Mrs Ws loss. But in this 
decision I can only consider what Lloyds did  rather than the scammer.
Lloyds should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds should have 
done more in Mr and Mrs Ws case. But I dont think the payment involved was so unusual or 
out of character that Lloyds needed to intervene. For example, it was only one payment 
rather than multiple, it didnt drain the account by any means, it wasnt such a large amount 
that Id expect it to be flagged, and Mr and Mrs W had a recent history of making transfers of 
these sorts of amounts, including a number of foreign transfers.
Mr and Mrs W felt that because their transfer didnt go out until the next working day, it must 
mean that it was manually checked. But while I understand why they might have thought 
that, thats not the case. Their payment went out automatically. Its just that as it was made 
on a weekend, it would only go out on the next working day  thats the normal process. And 
as our investigator explained, the Confirmation of Payee system only works for UK transfers 
 Lloyds cannot confirm the payee on international transfers.
Next, Ive thought carefully about what Lloyds did to try to recover Mr and Mrs Ws money 
after they told Lloyds about the scam. As Mr and Mrs W pointed out, there is a set of 
standards in place for trying to recover money lost to scams. But that only applies to faster 
payments between UK financial businesses, and here Mr and Mrs W made an international 
transfer to an overseas bank, so unfortunately Lloyds couldnt recover their money that way.
Under the Best Practice Standards, Lloyds was supposed to notify the receiving bank 
immediately after being told about the fraud. I can see that Lloyds did contact the receiving 
bank straight away  though to ask whether the seller had received the transfer or not. 
Lloyds only later asked for the transfer to be returned, after getting no reply. I take Mr and 
Mrs Ws point that Lloyds could have instead asked for the transfer to be returned in the first 
instance, as theyd mentioned it might be a scam. Though Mr and Mrs Ws main query, at 
that point, was whether the money had been received or not, and that was the main thing 
they asked Lloyds to find out.In any case, even if Lloyds had asked for the payment to be returned straight away, Im 
afraid I dont see that it wouldve made a difference. The receiving bank were not co-
operating, and didnt get back to Lloyds for about nine months even after Lloyds kept 
chasing them, by which point no funds remained. So even if Lloyds had tried to recover the 
money as soon as they were notified, if the receiving bank were not co-operating then things 
would not have realistically gone differently. Indeed, its a common tactic for scammers to 
move on the money as quickly as possible, before the victim realises what happened. So its 
very plausible that by the time Mr and Mrs W called Lloyds, it mightve already been too late, 
as it had already been several days since the payment.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about Lloyds not trying to recover the 
money earlier. But its worth keeping in mind that were not here to fine or punish banks for 
making mistakes. Id only tell Lloyds to compensate Mr and Mrs W if its likely that its error 
caused Mr and Mrs W a loss. But as I explained above, its most likely that even if Lloyds 
had acted earlier, it still was not realistically possible to get Mr and Mrs Ws money back, as 
the receiving bank were not co-operating. So I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for Mr and 
Mrs Ws loss.
I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs W would like Lloyds to red flag the seller. Lloyds couldnt 
really do that, as the seller was not its customer. That sort of thing was more for the 
receiving bank to do  indeed, following Lloyds fraud report about the account, the receiving 
bank confirmed theyd taken action to prevent any further fraud occurring. Similarly, Mr and 
Mrs W indicated that they might have liked Lloyds to red flag the receiving bank, too. But 
Lloyds does not have the power to do that kind of thing. And it was the scammer who carried 
out the scam, not the receiving bank.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr and Mrs W, I dont think Lloyds 
should be held responsible for their loss. And so I cant fairly tell Lloyds to refund Mr and 
Mrs Ws money in this case.
I agree with Mr and Mrs W that Lloyds overall customer service couldve been better here. 
For example, I understand Lloyds wasnt clear enough about what it could do, and that it 
caused some confusion when an advisor couldnt find Mr and Mrs Ws initial contact. We 
have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with those. Taking everything into account, I think that the £100 compensation offered is fair 
to put right the upset caused by Lloyds customer service issues.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs W are trying to get some information from Lloyds. I can 
see that our investigator has helped them to make a subject access request (SAR). If they 
have any further trouble with that, they may be able to make a complaint to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) who look after data protection matters such as SARs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman