DRN-3657037
The complaint
Mr P complains about incorrect advice he was given by Leeds Building Society (Leeds) in
relation to the opening of a cash ISA. He feels Leeds have treated him unfairly and have
been discriminatory.
What happened
In late December 2021, Mr P called Leeds to ask about opening a cash ISA for the tax year
2021-2022. Mr P was advised to go into branch as they couldnt process his request over the
phone. Following this advice, he travelled with his wife to his closest branch, which was
nearly 15 miles away, where he was told he couldnt open another cash ISA. This is because
he already had this type of account, and therefore he couldnt open another cash ISA as its
limited to one per customer.
Mr P complained to Leeds about being given misleading information and questioned why he
was not allowed another cash ISA account. Leeds responded to Mr Ps complaint and
apologised that they didnt tell Mr P that he couldnt open another account of this type, and
that he was made to travel to a branch when he didnt have to. They said they would provide
feedback to the relevant staff members to prevent this from happening again.
Leeds offered Mr P £60 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, and inconvenience
of travelling to a branch unnecessarily. Mr P didnt think £60 was a fair offer of compensation
for what had happened, and he felt £100 was more in line with what he was expecting.
Leeds werent willing to increase the compensation offered, so Mr P contacted our service
for help.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. He felt the compensation of £100 that
Mr P was asking for was fair and reasonable in the circumstances considering the
contradictory advice Mr P was given, and the unnecessary trip he made to the branch as a
result.
Leeds rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. They said they
understood that the incorrect information inconvenienced Mr P, but they say based on prior
knowledge of our services financial compensation limits, £60 was more than sufficient
considering other compensation offers made by this service. So, the case has been passed
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. Ill
explain why.
Incorrect information
Its not in dispute that Leeds provided incorrect information to Mr P over the phone when he
called to open another cash ISA in 2021. Leeds ought to have been aware that Mr P wasnt
eligible to open another cash ISA, and so shouldnt have told Mr P to go into branch to do
this. Mr P acted on the advice given and travelled 15 miles to his nearest branch
unnecessarily.
Leeds have accepted that this was a failing on their part and have apologised for this. In
recognition for the error made, they say they have provided feedback to the adviser and
compensated Mr P £60 for the inconvenience he experienced. I think this is a fair level of
compensation to recognise the inconvenience Mr P experienced by travelling to branch
unnecessarily and for Leeds providing Mr P with incorrect information. So, I wont be asking
Leeds to do anything further regarding this point.
Mr P feels he was treated unfairly
Mr P has said Leeds have treated him and behaved in a discriminatory way. When we asked
Mr P more about this, he said he felt Leeds had treated him unfairly due to his age and race.
Id like to explain that its not my role to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached
as thats for a court to decide. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. To be able to decide that we have to take a number of things into account
including relevant law. 
So, although its for the Courts to say whether Leeds have breached the Equality Act 2010, 
were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ps was treated unfairly in Leeds refusing to allow Mr P to open another 
ISA or for the service error it made. I say this because, the terms and condition of the 
account state under the eligibility section say:
This account is limited to one per customer
You may only subscribe to one Cash ISA in a single tax year
Leeds have admitted that they incorrectly opened more than one cash ISA for Mr P in 2017. 
Mr P wouldve had to confirm hed read the terms and conditions for the cash ISA account 
before proceeding to open each of the accounts, and I think the terms and conditions, 
specifically in regard to eligibility, are clear. Therefore, Mr P wouldve been aware of the 
eligibility criteria.
So, Im satisfied Leedss decision to refuse Mr Ps application to open a further cash ISA was
in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and Leeds were acting in accordance
with those.
Overall service
Ive considered the overall service Mr P has received from Leeds, and its clear there have
been service failings.
As Mr P wouldve been aware of the eligibility criteria, he ought to have known he couldnt
open a further cash ISA. So, I do feel he couldve mitigated his own losses and not travelled
to a branch if he had taken this into account.
However, Leeds have also made service errors by allowing Mr P to breach the eligibility
criteria. And while Leeds have given a reason as to why this was allowed to happen (due to
a systems error) Mr P wouldnt have known this. Considering this, I can see why Mr P
wouldve been confused, as in some instances he was allowed to breach the eligibility
criteria. But in 2021 he wasnt, which made him feel he was being treated unfairly.This was then compounded by the fact Leeds provided further incorrect information by
advising Mr P to go to a branch, which was of inconvenience to Mr P. So, overall, I dont
think the service Leeds has provided has been satisfactory. And while theyve already
offered Mr P £60, for the reasons Ive explained above, I feel the degree of upset,
inconvenience and confusion caused to Mr P warrants more compensation. And so I agree
with the investigators assessment and that Leeds should pay Mr P £100 to put this right.
I appreciate Leeds say theyve reviewed previous compensation levels awarded by our
service on previous cases. But each case is looked at on individual circumstances, including
how any errors or service failings have impacted the individual customer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. I require Leeds Building
Society to pay Dr P £100 compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman