DRN-3191026
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt include an overdraft facility when he 
switched his current account from another business. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr S applied for an account with Nationwide. In September 2021 Mr S 
applied to switch another account to Nationwide whilst he was in branch, using a tablet 
provided by staff members. Nationwide says it wasnt directly involved with the application 
process but provided assistance to Mr S so he could complete it online. 
The switch application didnt include a request for an overdraft facility. But Mr S has 
explained the account he was switching from had an overdraft facility of £1,600. 
Mr S complained and Nationwide issued a final response at the beginning of October 2021. 
Nationwide didnt agree it had made an error and said Mr S hadnt applied for an overdraft 
when opening the account in January 2021 or switching his current account to it in 
September 2021. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S 
asked to appeal and said staff helped him complete the switching application and he thought 
his existing overdraft facility would be taken forward by Nationwide. As Mr S asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide says Mr S wasnt eligible for an overdraft when he opened the account in 
January 2021. As a result, the account had no overdraft facility in place when Mr S applied 
to switch his current account in September 2021. Mr S has explained a member of branch 
staff helped him complete the application. And Nationwide agrees branch staff lent Mr S a 
tablet and provided some assistance while he completed the application. All parties broadly 
agree that Mr S completed the switch application in branch with some help from staff. 
Mr S says he thought the overdraft facility with his existing bank was brought over as part of 
the account switching application. However, no request for an overdraft facility was included 
in his application. Nationwide has explained branch staff arent involved in the decision 
making process, in terms of whether a switch or overdraft facility can be approved. So whilst 
they mayve assisted Mr S in completing the application online, the information provided and 
basis of his application was provided by him. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on 
all the available information. Had Nationwides branch staff been aware Mr S wanted to 
include an overdraft facility in the switching application I think its more likely than not they 
wouldve helped him check if he was eligible. I havent found that Nationwide misled Mr S 
during the account switching process or advised it had approved an overdraft. 
Nationwide has also explained Mr S had up to seven working days to cancel the account 
switch if he was unhappy with the services it offered. I think thats a reasonable point. The 
account switching terms set out what happens in the days following the application, including 
when a customer can withdraw. I think Nationwide could reasonably have expected Mr S to 
let it know if the account switch wasnt right for him during the timescales set out in the 
terms. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found that Nationwide misled or treated him 
unfairly during the account switching process. As Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt with 
Mr S complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman