DRN-1807584
The complaint
Ms R complains that a car acquired with finance from Mi Vehicle Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She also thinks that agreement was mis-sold to her because she was 
told the car came with a 12-month warranty but was subsequently advised that it didnt have 
a warranty.
What happened
In June 2018 Ms R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MVF.
Ms R says she was told verbally by the salesman that she would have a 12-month warranty 
on the car. She says she was also shown information about the warranty on the dealerships 
website.
In June 2019 Ms R experienced issues with the car. The oil light illuminated, and the car was 
recovered by a breakdown service. Ms R contacted the dealership and it arranged for the 
car to be transported there for repairs.
After a few weeks the dealership advised Ms R that the car had been sold to her as a trade 
vehicle and that there was no warranty. It said the estimated cost of repairs was £11,000 
which Ms R would have to pay herself.
Ms R is unhappy that the dealership isnt honouring the warranty. Shes also unhappy that 
the engine failed after only 11 months. She complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there had been a 
misrepresentation about the warranty. He also said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ms R didnt agree. She said shed been shown the website at the point od supply and was 
led to believe that the warranty applied to her car. She said that an engineers report shed 
obtained showed that the engine failed due to a faulty oil pump and that this mustve been 
developing at the point of supply because she hadnt covered very much mileage in the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation
In order to say that the agreement was mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that a 
misrepresentation (an untrue statement of fact) was made which induced Ms R to enter into 
the agreement.
Ms R says the salesman told her the car came with a 12-month warranty. There arent any 
notes of the discussions between Ms R and the salesman and the business has confirmed 
that he no longer works for the company. Because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of 
exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the contemporaneous 
documents and the wider circumstances of the case in order to decide whats most likely to 
have happened.
Ive looked at the agreement and pre-sale documentation. Theres nothing in the documents 
to suggest that the car benefitted from a 12 month warranty. Ms R says she was shown a 
website which stated that all cars came with a 12 month warranty. The business says that at 
the time when Ms R purchased the car, the 12 month warranty wasnt being offered and 
wasnt added to the website until February 2019.
Ive taken Ms Rs testimony into account and Ive looked at the information provided by the 
business. On balance, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that a 
misrepresentation was made about the warranty. The business has shown that the warranty 
wasnt advertised on the website until several months after Ms R purchased the car. Even if 
Ms R was told that her car came with a warranty, I dont think this was the main reason why 
she entered into the agreement. I think its more likely that this particular car suited her 
needs and that she wouldve purchased it in any event.
Satisfactory quality
Ive also considered whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Because the car was supplied under a hire purchase agreement, these an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Ms R  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. In order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault as opposed to a 
fault which arise due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. After 6 months its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
In this case, the fault occurred around 11 months after the point of supply so its up to Ms R 
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Ive looked at the engineers report provided by Ms R. It identifies issues with the engine and 
the oil pump but it doesnt say that these faults wouldve been present or developing at the 
point of supply. Ive taken into account that Ms R had the car for 11 months before the fault 
occurred. If the engine or the oil pump had been faulty at the point of supply, I would have 
expected the fault to present itself much sooner  even taking account of what Mrs R has 
said about her limited mileage.
Ive taken into account Ms Rs comets about the engine having been rebuilt before the car 
was sold to her but looking at the vehicles history I cant see any evidence that this is the 
case. And even if the engine was rebuilt at some stage, theres no evidence to link that with 
the current fault.Based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. So I wont be asking MVF to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman