DRN-3290380
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited treated him unfairly when it declined to 
cover the cost of a new boiler. Mr P says British Gas is responsible for his boiler breaking 
and so, should reimburse him the cost of having a new one installed. 
What happened
Mr P has a home emergency policy which is underwritten by British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
In April 2021, a British Gas engineer attended to Mr Ps boiler after he reported it was 
making an unusual noise.
Shortly after Mr P noticed some further issues. And in May 2021 another engineer 
attended. 
The second engineer reported that the expansion vessel needed replacing. However, 
due to the age of the boiler a replacement couldnt be sourced. The engineer said 
that as the fault couldnt be fixed, a new boiler was required.
Following this, Mr P had discussions with a British Gas representative as to the cost 
of replacing the boiler. He subsequently chose to have a third-party plumber install a 
new boiler.
Mr P feels strongly that his boiler was working until the second engineer attended 
and so he thinks British Gas Insurance Ltd should reimburse him what hes paid in 
having a new boiler installed. 
British Gas Insurance Ltd has made a gesture of goodwill payment for £199.56. This 
is made up of the £60 excess charge Mr P had to pay when booking the initial 
engineer and a refund of the premiums backdated to start of the contractual year. 
Mr P remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered it and said she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the 
engineer had damaged Mr Ps boiler. So, she didnt think it was reasonable to ask 
British Gas Insurance Limited to refund Mr P the cost of his new boiler. 
She explained that she had to keep in mind the boiler was over 16 years old, and that 
British Gas had previously told Mr P it would need replacing back in 2017. 
She added that British Gas had wanted to inspect the boiler in question after it had 
been replaced, but that because it had been discarded, it couldnt do so. She thought 
Mr P shouldve kept it so as to not prejudice British Gas position.
She was satisfied the gesture of goodwill was reasonable.
Mr P remained unhappy and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. The starting point is the 
policy document which explains a replacement boiler will be given if British Gas cant repair 
a boiler and 
its less than seven years old; or its between seven and ten years old, we installed it 
and its been continuously covered by [British Gas] under a warranty or HomeCare 
product.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ps boiler was over 16 years old at the time of the claim. So even if 
it had been installed by British Gas and was under a warranty or Homecare product, 
because it was more than 10 years old, Mr P wasnt going to be entitled to a replacement 
boiler if an engineer couldnt fix the problem. So, I dont think British Gas Insurance Limited 
has acted unfairly by declining to cover the costs Mr P incurred in having a new boiler 
installed. 
I understand Mr P feels strongly that the British Gas engineer damaged his old boiler and 
caused it to stop working but I havent been provided with evidence to support this. Instead, 
what I have seen is that the boiler was a number of years old and that Mr P had been 
advised to upgrade it some years earlier but hadnt. Furthermore, the policy schedule 
specifically mentions that because Mr Ps boiler is no longer being manufactured, it is 
becoming difficult to source spare parts. This was part of the reason why the second 
engineer couldnt repair Mr Ps boiler because according to notes  fitting a remote vessel 
was not a cure. Based on this, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to conclude the 
boiler stopping working was attributable to the actions of the engineer.  
With regards to the gesture of goodwill  the policy schedule explains:
in the unlikely event that we cant fix your boiler, you may be able to get a refund 
back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your 
agreement, - whichevers the most recent. 
British Gas Insurance Limited has refunded Mr Ps premiums back to when cover renewed  
so Im satisfied its acted in line with the policy. Its also refunded the excess fee Mr P was 
initially charged  which is only payable if the problem is fixed, which it wasnt here. So, Im 
satisfied British Gas Insurance Limited has acted fairly in how its tried to resolve things for 
Mr P. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr P but I hope he understands based on the reasons set 
out above, why Ive reached this outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Nicola BeakhustOmbudsman