DRN-3980676
The complaint
Ms B complains that her previous home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, has unreasonably 
declined to consider her claim for reoccurring damp at her home. She said damp has 
returned due to the inadequate work carried out by AXAs loss adjusters on a previous claim.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
In 2013 Ms B said a slow leak was discovered under her kitchen and she claimed to AXA. 
AXA appointed loss adjusters who fixed the leak and advised that Ms Bs home should be 
dried out before repair work was carried out. Ms B paid for some work to reduce damp and 
the loss adjusters oversaw full strip out followed by re-screeding of the floor and replastering.  
Ms B said damp returned. In 2015 AXAs loss adjuster stated that water that had previously 
entered the property still lay dormant and had breached the existing damp-proof course. 
AXA arranged for Ms Bs home to be dried followed by reinstatement works. AXAs 
contractor suggested there was an ongoing damp problem. Ms B said she suggested she 
pay for a new damp-proof course, but the loss adjuster told her this wasnt necessary. 
Ms B said AXAs contractor carried out very poor work and the damp returned to her and her 
neighbours home, with mould downstairs. She paid a timber preservation firm to inspect her 
home. The firm reported in 2016 that plaster applied to the wall reached the floor and may 
be picking up moisture from the floor and was bridging a built-in damp-proof course.
In 2021 Ms B paid a leak detection firm to check her and her neighbours home, but no leak 
was detected. The firm found high moisture readings and recommended installation of a new 
damp proof course with render to prevent moisture bridging. Ms B paid over £10,000 for the 
work and views this as correcting AXAs loss adjusters inadequate work.
Ms B said checks showed that neither her neighbours house nor nearby drains caused the 
damp. She said her current insurer arranged drying out again, and has paid to redecorate 
her home and replace flooring. But its agents think the damp proof course and membrane 
have been breached by rising damp for which her current insurer isnt liable.
Ms B complained to AXA and said part of her house is uninhabitable for which no one takes 
responsibility and the whole saga has left her very depressed. AXA said its loss adjusters 
found the damp not due to poor workmanship but a reoccurring issue with the damp proof 
course and said damage from damp isnt covered by Ms Bs policy. AXA refused to pay for 
the work, but paid Ms B £500 being half the cost of the report she obtained. Ms B said she 
was perplexed by this as the loss adjusters acknowledged their failure to make her home 
watertight and return it to its pre-damp condition as groundwater had breached their work.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the damage was due to 
reoccurring damp and not any faulty workmanship or an insured event. He said in 2017 AXA 
cash settled the claim with Ms B for damp proof course and redecoration work but wouldnt 
consider rising damp issues should they arise in the future. Notwithstanding this, AXA sent 
its loss adjusters again in 2021 and found nothing to suggest an insured event had occurred.
Ms B disagreed with the investigator. She said theres no proof there were any damp-proof 
issues before AXA first became involved. She said the investigator hadnt acknowledged that 
an independent expert had said AXAs work was faulty and likely to cause damp. She said 
that at least the fee for this report should be refunded in full. Ms B requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I intended to 
require AXA to pay Ms B for half of the cost of the damp-proofing work at her home and to 
pay her £500 compensation for her stress from the poor claims experience.
Ms B and AXA disagreed about the cause of the damp in her home. Ms B thought the drying 
out of her home wasnt carried out properly as identified by independent reports and she 
wanted to be reimbursed for the costs of rectifying this. AXAs loss adjusters disputed these 
reports and concluded that there was an inherent damp problem in Ms Bs home. 
 
In 2014 AXAs loss adjuster reported, The water ingress still lay dormant beneath the 
property and has been able to breach the existing DPC or membrane. AXA acknowledged 
that was most likely the cause of problems in 2014/2015, but not in 2021 when Ms B 
returned to her claim. In November 2016 AXA said it was highly likely that [the contractor] 
didnt carry out the drying correctly.
In 2017 AXA re-opened the claim and acknowledged inadequate drying of Ms Bs home and 
questionable repair work. AXA paid Ms B £2,307 for internal repairs and compensation of 
£1,500. AXA thought Ms B understood the issue was rising damp and that it wouldnt cover 
any reoccurrence of the problem. But Ms B thought the problem was due to poor work, not 
just rising damp. Although AXA rebutted liability, it paid some money for the claim, which 
tends to acknowledgement of the ongoing problem. 
AXA correctly stated claims for damp are specifically excluded in Ms Bs policy. And so I 
thought about whether it is more likely that naturally occurring rising damp caused the 
breach of the damp proof course, or if it was more likely due to the poor work carried out on 
AXAs behalf. I considered the available expert reports to help reach a decision. 
Ms Bs report from the timber preservation firm in 2016 states that the plaster had been laid 
in contact with the floor and could be picking up moisture from the floor. It stated that a gap 
should have been left for a pre-treated skiting board. The report from the leak detection firm 
in 2021 stated that a new damp-proof membrane had been partially lapped up to the wall but 
cut short at a partition causing some dampness. It said the screed floor had been laid 
unevenly in the front room and slightly lower than the adjacent room, with no evidence of a 
damp-proof membrane. The firm recommended remedial work which Ms B has paid for.
I could see why Ms B thought the reports point to AXAs contractors poor work as the cause 
and I thought that was partly correct. But AXAs loss adjusters are also experts and said the 
problem was due to rising damp that has occurred over many years. I thought there was 
evidence that AXAs contractors contributed to an underlying damp problem by carrying out 
work that failed to deal with Ms Bs initial claim. I also thought there is an ongoing damp 
problem independent of this, probably due to a rise in the groundwater. This is supported by 
a report from AXAs contractor who identified salts on the walls caused by rising damp. Ms B had acknowledged this by offering to pay for damp proofing when she first claimed but 
was told it wasnt necessary. And the leak detection firms report of April 2015 states that, 
excessive moisture throughout the property is from ongoing ingress issue. I said we expect 
insurers to carry out effective and lasting repairs on a claim and we would expect a damp 
problem to be addressed before repairs are carried out. The reports indicate a damp 
problem that could have been more adequately addressed by better quality work in 2015 
and more comprehensive remedial work in 2017.  
 
I could see that AXA tried to help Ms B in 2017 but needed to go further. And I thought AXA 
should pay Ms B for half of the cost of the work she had carried out. Ms B paid £10,998 to 
put her house into a damp-proof condition in 2021 and so I thought AXA should pay her 
£5,499. But I didnt think AXA needed to pay anything further for Ms Bs reports.    
Ms B has been through years of disruption with the damp in her house not being dealt with. 
This was recognised by AXA when it paid her compensation for the poor claims experience 
she had endured. But I thought what she has experienced since 2021 when she revisited her 
claim merited further compensation of £500.
I said Ms B should provide AXA with evidence of the payment for the work and once AXA 
has made the payment, I didnt think it should have any ongoing liability for damage from 
damp at her home. 
Ms B agreed with the provisional decision and said she was relieved and pleased she had 
been listened to and the decision took into account her surveys.  AXA didnt respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought again about whether AXA should be liable for the reoccurrence of the damp 
issues at Ms Bs home. Having done so, I remain of the view that that there has been an 
underlying damp problem, but that AXAs contractors should have addressed this properly 
when the claim was first made. 
And so I think that liability for the problems Ms B has experienced should be split between 
the parties and AXA should reimburse her for half of her costs for the repairs she has paid. 
But I dont think it needs to add interest to this amount. Since Ms B agrees with the 
provisional decision and AXA hasnt responded, I see no reason to change the outcome that 
I put forward. I understand that Ms B has sent evidence of her payment for the work.
I sympathise with Ms B for the reoccurring damp in her home. Ms B said the process has 
tested her and I can see has been through years of disruption with the problem not being 
dealt with. This was recognised by AXA when it paid her compensation for the poor claims 
experience she had endured. But, as I have said, that was some time ago and her distress 
and inconvenience she has experienced since 2021 merits further compensation of £500.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms B for half the cost of the damp-proofing work that 
was required for her home at £5,499. I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms B £500 
compensation for the stress she has suffered from her poor claims experience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman