DRN-3263685
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
they made under their home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs R returned home from a holiday and found that their neighbour had 
erected a fence and attached it to their front wall. Mr and Mrs R said the fence wasnt safe 
and wanted it to be taken down. They contacted their insurer Ageas for assistance. 
Ageas said it couldnt consider their claim as no insured peril had occurred. It said the 
erecting of the fence by the neighbour was deliberate and not accidental. So it wasnt 
covered under the peril of accidental damage. And as the neighbours contractor had set up 
the fence without any malicious intent, Ageas said it wasnt covered under the insured peril 
of vandalism/malicious damage. Ageas explained that this was a civil matter and Mr and Mrs 
R may need to seek legal advice. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. Our investigator 
didnt find that Ageas had acted unreasonably. She thought it had declined the claim fairly as 
the policy didnt provide cover in these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They say the police told them it was accidental damage. And as 
Mr and Mrs R were not expecting it, the claim should be covered. 
So as Mr and Mrs R dont agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. But having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. 
We dont decide on a claim. But we can look at whether an insurers decision to decline a 
claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. As the investigator explained, insurance 
policies dont provide cover for every eventuality. They provide cover for specific insured 
perils such as storm, fire, flood, and accidental damage. 
I think Ageas properly considered Mr and Mrs Rs claim. And in light of the circumstances, it 
isnt covered as an insured peril of accidental damage or malicious damage/vandalism. I 
understand Mr R says the police advised him that the neighbour has accidentally damaged 
their property. But its for Ageas to decide if the information shows that the claim is covered 
under the policy. And I think its decision to reject Mr and Mrs Rs claim was reached in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs R have contacted other parties to assist them. Im sorry the 
outcome hasnt been what they were hoping for. But this doesnt mean I think Ageas has 
done anything wrong. And so this means Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman