DRN-2414184
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent her money to an account in Switzerland in the 
wrong currency.
What happened
Mrs H says she went to a HSBC branch in February 2020 to send a large amount of money 
to her account in Switzerland. She says the transfer should have been in GBP but was made 
in CHF. And as a result, the recipient bank had to open an account for her in CHF which had 
the overall result, due to exchange rate differences, of a loss of over £30,000. Mrs H says 
HSBC has made a mistake and would like the money she lost refunded and interest paid on 
that amount.
HSBC says it made the transfer as requested and gave Mrs H the transfer document to 
check which she did and signed it. It says it isnt responsible for any losses or for the fact the 
recipient bank required the payment in GBP.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs H had told HSBC that she checked the transfer document and that she had 
signed it. The investigator thought the document explained the currency the transfer was to 
be made in and that it would be unfair for HSBC to pay for any exchange rate loss.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and in summary says she wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transfer if HSBC had told her how much it would have cost her and that it acted negligently. 
She says the HSBC member of staff that dealt with the transfer wasnt qualified to deal with 
this transaction and maintains she should receive her money back as well as interest on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at the payment confirmation form that Mrs H signed. Im satisfied that form 
clearly says the currency will be in CHF and goes on to confirm the exchange rate and the 
amount in CHF that will be received by the recipient bank and Mrs H. Im also satisfied that 
information is contained just above the part of the document Mrs H signed. So, I think it 
ought reasonably to have been clear that the transfer would be in CHF and I dont think 
HSBC would have any reason not to have made the transfer in CHF to a bank in 
Switzerland.
I can also see that Mrs H wrote to HSBC about her complaint and told it that she checked 
the details of the form. So, Im satisfied in those circumstances that Mrs H ought to have 
realised the transfer was not in the currency she wanted as she had not only checked the 
document but signed it. I have made clear that I find the currency information was 
prominently displayed in a number of arears of that document including the area Mrs H 
signed.
I appreciate Mrs H says if HSBC had told her how much the transaction would end up 
costing she wouldnt have proceeded. But I dont think HSBC could have known that and as I 
have explained I find it followed Mrs Hs instructions and couldnt reasonably have known 
that although Mrs H was transferring money to an account in Switzerland that account was a 
GBP account.
Overall, I find HSBC followed Mrs Hs instructions and it was her responsibility to check the 
details and information. It follows that, as I dont find HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly, 
I cant fairly order it to refund any losses Mrs H suffered or order it to pay the compensation 
she would like. I make clear that I have not seen any evidence HSBC staff were not qualified 
to deal with the transaction and I find they followed Mrs Hs instructions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman