DRN-2926744
The complaint
Miss J complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled her claim on her home 
insurance.   
What happened
Miss J had a home insurance policy with Fairmead. In March 2020 she made a claim on the 
policy after discovering a leak at her property that was causing mould.  Fairmead sent out a 
contractor to investigate and accepted the claim.
Fairmeads contractor fixed the cause of the leak and then moved onto repairing the 
damage. In August 2020 it was decided that due to the extent of the work required, Miss J 
and her son would need to be put in alternative accommodation while it was carried out. At 
the end of August, they moved into a caravan and were advised they would be out of their 
home for around ten weeks.
However the work took longer to carry out, and Miss J was in alternative accommodation for 
a number of months. During this time she made a complaint to Fairmead. She said the claim 
had taken much longer than it should have to progress, which had meant she had to live in 
the caravan for much longer than she expected. She said this had caused her a lot of 
distress, particularly considering existing medical conditions that meant she needed 
comfortable furniture. 
Fairmead upheld her complaint and accepted there had been avoidable delays and poor 
service in the claim. It offered £250 compensation to make up for the distress it had caused. 
Miss J didnt think this was enough and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought Fairmead had 
caused a number of delays throughout the claim and the communication with Miss J had 
been poor. She thought this had caused her considerable distress and recommended 
Fairmead pay an additional £500 to make up for this.
Fairmead accepted our investigators view. However Miss J didnt think the compensation 
was enough to reflect the distress she had experienced. She asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance claims involving an escape of water can take a long time to resolve, as there will 
be drying required, followed by strip out works and then the repairs. This can cause 
considerable distress, as the insured will often be out of their home for a period of time and 
the damage to their property and possessions can be considerable. When looking at this 
complaint I need to consider whether Fairmead has unnecessarily delayed the claim or 
provided poor service, and if so, the impact this have had on Miss J. Rather than considering 
the impact of the escape of water claim itself.
Ive considered the timeline of the claim and I can see there were a number of delays. Some 
of these were due to Miss J requesting the claim was paused due to concerns around the 
coronavirus pandemic and some were due to the discovery of a second leak. So these 
delays were out of Fairmeads control.
However, I can see there were a number of occasions where the claim progressed more 
slowly than it should have. For example after the visit at the start of May, it took nearly two 
months for any further progress to be made. And when Miss J called to find out what was 
happening, she was given incorrect information  that it was still waiting for the report from 
its contractors. And the site visit to arrange the strip out works wasnt arranged until August, 
which is three months after the last site inspection. So I think the claim could have been 
progressed more quickly during this time. 
There were also delays to drying equipment being installed once Miss J had moved into 
alternative accommodation and a further delay in the scope of works being signed off to 
allow repairs to begin. This amounted to around an additional month. So I agree there were 
some avoidable delays caused by Fairmead.
I have also considered the service provided. I can see that there were a number of 
occasions where Miss J had to chase Fairmead for information. And that she wasnt kept 
updated throughout the claim. Further, the contractor dealing with the claim was changed 
around five time throughout the claim. And this would have been confusing for Miss J, 
particularly as she was having to contact Fairmead to find this out. 
Also, the furniture in her home wasnt stored correctly, and has become mouldy and damp. 
This appears to be due to Fairmeads contractors not taking sufficient precautions. I think 
this would have caused Miss J additional distress, during an already distressing situation. 
So overall I agree that Fairmead delayed the claim by around three months unnecessarily. 
And during this time, provided poor service. Ive gone on to consider the impact this has had 
on Miss J.
Miss J has explained that she has some medical problems  particularly with her spine. This 
means she requires comfortable bedding and furniture so it doesnt cause her additional 
pain. She has also provided a letter from her doctor that confirms she has had issues with 
anxiety and low mood, that she feels are largely linked to living out of her home for so long. 
Due to these factors, I think the actions of Fairmead would have had a greater impact on 
Miss J. It would have been distressing for Miss J to have to live out of her home for an 
extended period of time. And while this isnt the fault of Fairmead  the delays it caused 
prolonged the amount of time she was displaced for. Further she had to contact it regularly 
as updates werent provided. And this would have caused further distress as she was left not 
knowing the position of her claim and therefore how long she would be living out of her home 
for. 
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that Fairmead should pay Miss J an additional 
£500 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Js complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay her an additional 
£500 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman