DRN-1590613
 
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax but trading at the time of sale 
as Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs D and Mr D bought a regular premium MPPI policy that started in December 1991. 
Neither party can be sure where the policy was sold. The policy covered Mr D only against 
unemployment, accidents and sickness.
Mrs D and Mr D say when they applied for the mortgage they did not ask for PPI. They say 
they were told if they didnt take it they may not be able to have the mortgage. They think 
Halifax mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs D and Mr Ds case.
Mrs D and Mr D initial thought the policy was sold through the post, but have since given 
their complaint points that would suggest to me the policy was sold face to face with an 
advisor from Halifax. Halifax do not know whether the policy was sold but say it has 
defaulted to it being sold in a meeting. So I will proceed that the policy was more likely sold 
during a face to face meeting.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs D and Mr D say they were told if they didnt take the PPI policy they may not be 
able to have the mortgage.
 
I acknowledge everything Mrs D and Mr D have said. I cant be sure exactly what 
was discussed between Mrs D and Mr D and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im 
also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections 
of what happened can fade over time.
 Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen.
 
Without anything else to support what Mrs D and Mr D have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was optional.
 
Moving on, Halifax has treated this sale as if it recommended the MPPI to Mrs D and 
Mr D during the meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the 
business, I will proceed that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to 
Mrs D and Mr D, it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr 
Ds needs as the policy holder. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable Mr D based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr D says 
he cant remember what sick pay he held at the time, which again is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. But in any case the MPPI policy 
would have paid in addition to any provisions he would have had and most likely for 
longer. So the benefit would have been of use to Mrs D and Mr D during a difficult 
time as they could have used any provisions they jointly held to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs D and Mr D had a need for this cover based on Mr 
Ds circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mrs D and Mr D took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
Mrs D and Mr D in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they 
were disclosed clearly I dont think Mrs D and Mr D would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr D wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mrs D and 
Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman