DRN-4201980
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the handling of a claim under her mobile phone insurance 
policy with American International Group UK Limited (AIG).
Miss L is represented in this compliant but for ease, I will refer to Miss L throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
Miss L contacted AIG, as her phone screen was cracked. AIG replaced the screen but    
Miss L says that unknown to her at the time, AIG also replaced her original branded battery 
for an inferior unbranded one. Miss L also said the speaker was crackling and phone not 
functioning well. 
After Miss L complained, AIG said it would repair the phone. Miss L sent the phone back to 
AIG and it carried out the work on the phone. AIG sent the phone back to Miss L but the 
courier lost the phone. I understand it was delivered to the wrong address. AIG sent her a 
replacement phone. Miss L is not happy with the replacement, as she says it is refurbished 
and in poor condition. Miss L says the SIM tray doesnt sit right, light leaks out from the side 
of the lens, it has scratches on the side and no screen protectors. Miss L says the phone is 
freezes, the screen is unresponsive or oversensitive. 
Miss L is very unhappy about this. She says that AIG effectively stole her phone battery and 
then went on to steal her whole phone, giving her an inferior replacement in return. Miss L 
says that if she had known AIG would take the original battery, shed have had the screen 
replaced herself and would still have had her own phone and battery. In addition, Miss L is 
unhappy with the time taken to deal with the matter, with many delays and her having to 
make several phone calls, and that the replacement device was sent to the wrong address. 
Miss L has asked to exchange the replacement phone for a brand new phone; or that AIG 
pay her £650 so she can buy a new replacement for her phone. 
AIG says it repaired the phone properly. AIG says that if the back glass of Miss Ls model 
phone needs replacing then the battery needs to be replaced as well, as they are connected. 
In November 2022, Miss L told it that she having issues with the battery and other issues 
with the phone. As it was within three months of the original repair. AIG said that when the 
phone was lost by the courier, it sent a replacement. The policy terms provide that a 
replacement phone will be a refurbished model. AIG says if Miss L is saying the replacement 
phone is now damaged, she will need to submit a new claim under the policy for it to assess. 
AIG did, however, accept that there had been service failings and delays. AIG offered Miss L 
£240 compensation for this. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. Initially, he did not recommend the complaint 
be upheld as she thought AIGs response had been reasonable. However, the Investigator 
reviewed the matter again and recommended that AIG pay a total of £340 compensation (to 
include the £240 already offered) and provide Miss L with a replacement phone in good 
condition, without the need to treat it as a new claim.  
AIG did not accept the Investigators assessment. AIG says the replacement phone was 
delivered to Miss l on 24 November 2022 and she had 72 hours to notify it of any damage to 
the device. Miss L didnt contact it until 8 December 2022, which was outside this notification 
period and after its final response to her complaint. Therefore it is entitled to ask her to make 
a claim for the damage to the replacement device. AIG also said that as this was not raised 
until after its final response letter to Miss Ls complaint about the handling of her claim, it 
cannot be considered in the context of this claim, as it has not had the opportunity to 
consider this properly. 
However, AIG offered to waive the excess if Miss L returned the phone for it to deal with it as 
a damage claim. AIG also said that if the phone is undamaged but is faulty, it would be 
covered under the warranty anyway. AIG does not agree it should just replace the device 
and give Miss L another £100. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L sent her phone in for the screen to be replaced. She was not told that the battery 
would also be replaced. AIG says that it had to replace the battery because when the 
screen or back glass is replaced it does disturb the battery. After the battery has been 
disturbed it does cause a health and safety risk to leave the original battery in the device. It 
can cause the battery to swell, which can then lead to the screen and/or back glass being 
forced out and it can also crack the glass.
I have no reason to doubt what AIG has said about this but it should have told Miss L this 
before it removed her battery, so she could decide if she wanted to go ahead with the repair 
or not. Miss L says if she had known the battery would be replaced with an unbranded one, 
she would either have kept the phone as it was with the damaged screen, or had it repaired 
herself. It is difficult to know for sure what she is likely to have done but she didnt have the 
opportunity to make a choice. 
The replacement battery was then causing issues with the functioning of the phone and, 
after some delay, AIG agreed to look at it again. The phone was then lost on its way back to 
Miss L. 
The courier company were acting on behalf of AIG in delivering the phone back to 
Miss L, so it is ultimately liable for any errors it makes. Therefore AIG is responsible for the
loss of the phone. It provided a replacement but this is faulty. 
I do not think the 72 hour notification limit cited by AIG is relevant because from what Miss L 
has said, the phone is not damaged as such (other than Miss L saying there are some 
scratches on the side) rather she says it is faulty. I do not therefore think it reasonable to 
expect this issue to be treated as a claim, whether or not AIG waives the excess.
AIG was responsible for replacing the lost phone but not as an insurance claim. It was lost 
by a courier company acting on its behalf, rather than by Miss L. It is therefore irrelevant in 
my opinion what the policy says about how AIG will replace phone following a claim.  The 
policy terms dont apply in this instance and AIG is liable to compensate Miss L for the loss 
of the phone. I also do not think it makes any different that AIG wasnt aware of the problems with the 
replacement phone when Mis L first raised her complaint. The complaint was about the 
removal of the battery of the original phone and then the fact that AIGs courier lost her 
original phone. I am therefore required to determine whether AIG has put those matters right 
and I dont think it has, as it has not provided Miss L with a reasonable replacement of the 
lost phone.  
However, this doesnt mean AIG has to provide Miss L with brand new phone either. What it 
is obliged to do is to provide a like-for-like replacement. I have little evidence about the
condition of Miss Ls original phone, other than it had original branded parts (apart from the 
screen which was replaced in the initial claim). It seems to me reasonable to assume it was 
in good condition; Ive seen no evidence to suggest otherwise.
Im not therefore persuaded that AIG should have sent a brand new phone but it was
obliged to provide a good condition replacement phone. This could be a refurbished phone, 
of a similar age as Miss Ls original phone, but with mainly original parts, of the same make 
and model.  
It is therefore my opinion that AIG should exchange the current phone with another in good 
condition. 
I also agree with the Investigator that some additional compensation is warranted. AIG 
should not have replaced the battery in the original phone without informing Miss L that it 
would be doing so and making her aware it would replace it with an unbranded battery. It 
should also not have lost her original insured phone. Having done so it should have replaced 
it with a good condition similar phone, of the same make and model. There were also 
significant delays in AIGs response to these issues, which caused Miss L additional 
unnecessary trouble. I agree with the Investigator that a total of £340 compensation (to 
include the £240 already offered) is reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require American International Group UK Limited to do the 
following: 
1. exchange the current phone with a replacement in good condition; and
2. pay a total of £340 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to    
Miss L by its handling of her claim. (If AIG has already paid any part of this 
compensation, it only now needs to pay the remaining amount.) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman