DRN-1937562
Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Newcastle Building Society (Newcastle BS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs A bought an PPI policy alongside a mortgage in 2002. This was to help them 
with their repayments if Mr A was unable to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. But Mr and Mrs A disagree, so 
its come to me for a final decision. 
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt need the PPI and were pushed into buying it. Newcastle BS 
says it made the optional nature of the PPI clear and it was added to their account after they 
agreed to it. Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely 
based on all the evidence available which includes Mr and Mrs As testimony. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs As mortgage application form from 2002 which had a 
separate heading for PPI. In it, customers had the option to tick a Yes box to take PPI or a 
No box to decline it. The Yes box on their form has been ticked. They went on to select 
full accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They couldve bought less extensive cover 
if they had wanted to as there were options to only buy either accident and sickness or 
unemployment only. They also chose to cover the first applicant only  Mr A. So, to me it 
looks like a number of choices were made and I think its likely that they discussed PPI to 
some degree. This form has been signed to confirm the selections made. 
Newcastle BS has also provided a copy of a PPI request form which again has been signed. 
This form was completed in order to request a PPI application form. This had the option to 
tick either an option saying they didnt require PPI, that they were going to buy PPI 
elsewhere with an alternative business, or they required PPI. The option requesting cover 
has been ticked  but it seems they were presented with options to decline cover altogether 
or to buy it elsewhere. 
Overall, whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs A have said, I think its more 
likely that Mr and Mrs A agreed to take out PPI to cover Mr A only knowing they had a 
choice. 
Mr and Mrs As main argument is Newcastle BS pressured them to take the PPI. When 
consumers say they were pressured to take PPI, Id need persuasive evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis as pressure can be subjective. Encouraging customers to consider 
buying PPI and highlighting the benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue pressure. In 
order to uphold a complaint due to pressure, Id need to hear detail as to what was said or 
done which made consumers feel they are unable to decline cover despite knowing it was an 
optional product. 
Whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs A have said, and I appreciate their 
strength of feeling regarding this, I havent heard enough to make me think its more likely 
than not Newcastle BS put pressure on Mr and Mrs A to take the PPI.  
Mr and Mrs A say Newcastle BS advised them to take the PPI but Newcastle BS says it 
didnt. It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an advised 
(or recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually mean that 
the seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider financial 
circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular customer 
rather than simply intimating that PPI was a good product to have more generally. The latter 
would be a non-advised sale. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Newcastle BS gave Mr and Mrs A a tailored 
recommendation to take the PPI so it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did 
have to make sure they got enough clear information so they could decide if they wanted to 
take it. 
Its possible the information Newcastle BS gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as Ive said, I think its more likely they chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, Mr A was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr A says his employer provided him with some sick pay and both Mr and Mrs A say they 
had a significant amount of savings in cash, shares and bonds available, so they didnt need 
PPI. Given the time thats passed since this policy was sold, understandably, they couldnt 
evidence this. But I believe that they mightve had some other means available to them at 
the time they took the PPI. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr As employed provided and for up 
to 12 months if he couldnt work because illness, injury or unemployment. As Ive said 
above, I think they chose to take PPI and they did so knowing they had these other means 
available to them so protecting these savings appears to have been important. Having the 
policy left these savings intact for them to use for the purpose they intended  I understand 
they had saved this amount to buy a larger property later on. 
Overall, I think they wouldve found the cover useful to protect their mortgage, which was a 
long term and significant commitment secured on their home  so the effects of not keeping 
up with the repayments couldve been very serious. With all this in mind, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Newcastle BS needs to give Mr and Mrs A some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage agreements  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs As mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Newcastle BS doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI 
they had with that mortgage.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman