DRN-3017603
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited applied a late payment
marker to his credit file.
What happened
Mr A called Home Retail to pay off the outstanding balance on his credit account. The
representative that Mr A spoke with noted that a direct debit payment was due shortly and
suggested that Mr A pay the balance minus the due direct debit amount, so that when the
direct debit was later taken it would clear the balance on the account to zero. Mr A agreed to
this suggestion.
Unfortunately, the direct debit payment wasnt successful, and so an outstanding balance
remained on the account. Mr A wasnt aware of this, and he didnt take any action to clear
the balance before the next direct debit payment became due, which also failed. Because of
this, Home Retail recorded a late payment marker on Mr As credit file.
Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Home Retail looked at Mr As
complaint, but they didnt feel that they had made any form of error, so they didnt uphold Mr
As complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Home Retails response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr A had been able
to demonstrate that the necessary funds had been available in Mr As account at the time of
the direct debit, and that this meant that Mr A shouldnt be considered as being at fault for
what had happened. So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr
As favour and that the adverse reporting should be removed from Mr As credit file.
Home Retail didnt agree with the recommendations put forward by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 July 2021 as follows:
Credit providers have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference
agencies. It is within the remit of this service to instruct a business to amend the 
reports that theyve made to credit reference agencies, but this instruction would 
generally only be given where it is felt that the adverse credit reporting is unfair or 
unreasonable in some way.
Im not convinced that thats the case in this instance. And one of the reasons I say 
this is because, having listened to a recording of the telephone conversation between 
Mr A and Home Retails representative, the representative specifically instructs Mr A 
to monitor the direct debit. Indeed, regardless of whether or not this instruction had 
been given to Mr A by the representative, in accepting the suggestion of the 
representative to allow the scheduled direct debit to be taken, it was Mr As 
responsibility to monitor that direct debit and ensure that the required payment to 
Home Retail was made.
I can appreciate that Mr A might not have had any reason to suspect that the direct 
debit might fail, but that doesnt absolve Mr A of the responsibility of ensuring that the 
payment was successful, and it must be noted that the subsequent statement sent to 
Mr A by Home Retail clearly showed that the direct debit had been reversed and that 
a balance was still outstanding on the account.
Additionally, while Mr A has provided statements to this service which show that 
sufficient funds were present in his account at the times that the direct debits were 
applied for, Home Retail have been able to demonstrate that they held the correct 
bank details for Mr A and applied to the correct bank account for the scheduled 
funds. And it was following the failure of the second monthly direct debit that Home 
Retail reported a missed payment to the credit reference agencies.
So, while Im uncertain as to why the direct debit failed, its difficult to conclude that 
Home Retail have made any form of error here such that I would consider it unfair or 
unreasonable for them to have reported the missed payment marker on Mr As credit 
file. Indeed, while I can understand Mr As frustration here, it appears from the 
evidence available to me that a payment was missed.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A wants here, but it follows that my
provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Home 
Retail to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr A and Home Retail the opportunity to 
provide any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to a final decision. Home Retail confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Mr A did provide some further comments for me to consider.
A large part of Mr As response is a restatement in full of his position, the majority of which I 
feel that Ive already addressed in my provisional decision. However, Mr A does raise 
several new points.
Mr A states that, when he called Home Retail to make the payment, he was told by the 
advisor to pay the outstanding balance minus the amount that was scheduled to be taken by 
direct debit. Ive listened to the recording of the telephone conversation in question, and Mr 
As recollection here isnt entirely accurate. What did happen was that Home Retails advisor 
suggested to Mr A that he pay the outstanding balance minus the scheduled direct debit 
amount, and that Mr A subsequently accepted that suggestion. It wasnt the case that Mr A 
was told that he had to pay that specific amount.
As I explained in my provisional decision letter, its my position that once Mr A accepted the 
suggestion made by the advisor in this regard, it was then incumbent on Mr A to have 
monitored the direct debit and to have ensured that the final payment was made. Indeed, as 
also previously mentioned, Home Retails advisor specifically mentioned to Mr A on the 
telephone call that he should monitor the direct debit to ensure that the final scheduled 
payment went through without issue.
Mr A has stated that he has a large number of monthly direct debit payments and that he 
hasnt previously had any issue with payments not being honoured. I can appreciate Mr As position here, but that doesnt absolve him of the responsibility of monitoring the direct debit 
and ensuring that the final monthly payment was made.
Mr A has also questioned whether the reason that the direct debit failed might rest with 
Home Retail. However, as mentioned in my provisional decision letter, Home Retail have 
been able to demonstrate that the payment was applied for on the same basis as all 
previous payments - that is, using the correct bank account details. As such Im satisfied that 
the reason that the direct debit payment failed wasnt because of any form of error by Home 
Retail.
Finally, Mr A has expressed his dissatisfaction that he was only informed by Home Retail 
that his direct debit had failed after the payment failed for a second consecutive month, 
which therefore didnt provide him the opportunity to make a rectifying payment before the 
adverse information had been recorded on his credit file. 
However, Home Retail did send a statement to Mr A after the first direct debit payment had 
failed which confirmed that Mr As account was in arrears, and the status of Mr As account 
would have been available for him to review at any time. Additionally, that the direct debit 
payment hadnt been made would also have been evident from Mr As bank account 
statements or transaction history. As such, Im satisfied both that Home Retail did provide Mr 
A with reasonable notice that his direct debit payment hadnt been made, and that this 
information would have been available to Mr A from alternative sources.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Mr As frustration here and his desire to not 
have a missed payment recorded on his credit file, Im satisfied that a payment was missed, 
and that the responsibility for that missed payment doesnt rest with Home Retail in any way. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Home Retail to take 
any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman