DRN-4314085
The complaint
Miss A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) wouldnt provide a 
doorstep exchange, replacement phone, following a claim under her gadget insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss A held a policy with Assurant and made a claim following the damage of her phone. 
The claim was accepted, and Assurant sent her a replacement phone. Miss A said that there 
was a fault with the phone, that had existed since she received it. But she didnt report the 
fault to Assurant, until around 17 days after she had received the phone.
Assurant advised Miss A about its warranty process. If she had notified them of the fault 
within the first seven days after receiving the phone, then it would have carried out what it 
called a doorstep exchange. But as she had told them of the fault outside of this time frame, 
she would need to send the phone back to them for them to validate the fault. 
Miss A was unhappy about the warranty process and complained. In its final response, 
Assurant maintained its position. It again offered a warranty repair to Miss A. But as she had 
been given her referral rights, and she remained unhappy, she referred a complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that she didnt think Assurant had been unreasonable to ask for the phone to be 
returned, so that it could either be repaired or replaced. So, there was nothing further she 
could reasonably ask it to do. 
Assurant accepted the view, Miss A did not. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Miss A. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision. 
Having reviewed all the evidence and comments made by both parties, I think the main 
issues of this complaint are that Miss A believed that she was entitled to a doorstep 
exchange, for the faulty phone that she had received from Assurant. Also, that the warranty 
process and in particular the seven-day rule hadnt been notified to her in the policy terms 
and conditions. So, Ive concentrated my decision on these issues.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions. And I accept that within it, there is no mention 
of a seven-day time limit for a consumer to notify Assurant of a fault with a device. What is 
mentioned, is that a consumer should report the fault, as soon as possible. 
There are various ways that a consumer can make a report, one of which is online at any 
time of the day or night. I cant see that Miss A chose to report the fault in this way. I 
understand that she said that she was busy due to work commitments. But I dont agree that 
this wouldve been a barrier to report the fault sooner. 
I asked Assurant why the warranty process wasnt within Miss As policy. It said that the 
warranty process is a business process to determine how to proceed with a warranty fault, 
when it has been reported. And it isnt required as part of the policy terms and conditions. 
Our service isnt the regulators of businesses. This is not our remit. We are tasked with 
investigating whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably. If there are complaints 
regarding business processes, these should be directed to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
Ive reviewed the warranty process. I note that Assurant said that this was a business 
process and as such, wasnt in the policy terms. But Assurant provided evidence that Miss A 
was informed about the warranty process. It has also said that when it sent the replacement 
phone to Miss A, there was documentation that outlined the warranty process. 
Miss A said that she was unaware about the warranty process and in particular the seven-
day time frame. She said that had she been made aware she would have returned her 
phone much sooner. 
Miss A also said that the replacement phone was faulty from the day that she had received 
it. Miss A said that she was unable to contact Assurant due to her work commitments. But as 
Ive mentioned, there is the option of logging the fault with the phone online at any time of 
the day. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for Miss A to have reported the issue with 
her phone, online within the first seven-days.
The warranty permitted Miss A to return the phone (after the seven-day time limit had 
expired) for Assurant to either repair or replace the phone. I understand that Miss A felt that 
she should be given the opportunity to have a doorstep exchange, but I dont think that 
Assurant was unreasonable to request the phone back, especially as it appeared to 
Assurant, that the phone had seemingly been working without issue for a while. 
Additionally, I think its fair and reasonable for Assurant to be given the opportunity to 
validate the fault. Which can only be done if Miss A returns the phone. Assurant has 
indicated that this offer is still available to Miss A and once it receives it, the phone will be 
assessed for faults and either repaired or replaced. If she wishes to take this up, then she is 
at liberty to contact Assurant to make the necessary arrangements. 
I acknowledge Miss As strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Assurant acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman