DRN-4500041
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank PLC wont refund all the money he lost to an investment 
scammer. 
Mr Y is represented by a third party, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr Y alone in this 
decision.
What happened
Around September/October 2020 Mr Y was searching for investment opportunities online 
and came across an investment trading company Ill call N. Mr Y found Ns website 
professional and informative. He also searched Ns details online and didnt find anything 
untoward to indicate that they were a scam. Mr Y emailed N for further information. Shortly 
after, he was contacted by a representative of N and was offered the opportunity to trade in 
cryptocurrency with an expert that would assist him.  
Over the next several months, Mr Y used his Barclays current account to purchase 
cryptocurrency to deposit onto his trading account and he saw his investment fluctuating with 
market trends. Mr Y asked Ns representative if he could withdraw some of his profits and he 
was permitted a withdrawal of £4,899 on 6 November 2020. This prompted Mr Y to deposit 
larger sums onto his trading account.
 
In December 2020, Mr Y received another small withdrawal, which prompted larger deposits. 
When Mr Y requested further withdrawals, he was told hed need to pay fees. He refused to 
do so and subsequently discovered his trading account was in a minus balance. It was at 
this point that Mr Y realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
  
Mr Y contacted Barclays disputing 12 debit card payments towards the scam taken between 
3 November 2020 to 15 January 2021 totalling £144,312 (less the withdrawals). He asked 
Barclays to reimburse his total loss of £139,399.
Barclays issued its final response on 6 December 2022 stating it missed an opportunity to 
intervene earlier on in the scam (specifically from payments after 30 November 2022). But it 
noted it had a long detailed conversation with Mr Y on 6 January 2021 where it provided a 
scam warning but this didnt dissuade him from paying further funds to the scammer. 
Barclays said there was a lot of adverse information about N at the point of Mr Ys 
investment and if hed carried out more due diligence checks, hed have likely seen the scam 
reviews. It paid Mr Y 50% of the value of the disputed transactions from 30 November 2020 
to 4 January 2021 (based on what it considered to be unusual account activity), plus interest. 
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding any payments after the scam warning was provided. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr N referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think Barclays scam warning was 
meaningful. He felt Barclays point where it deemed Mr Ys transactions as unusual was fair. 
He also felt Barclays offer to refund 50% of Mr Ys losses was fair, but he felt this refund 
should apply to the disputed transactions from 30 November 2020 to 15 January 2021. 
Mr N replied accepting our Investigators view. Barclays requested additional time and 
provided a copy of the call it had already provided. It provided no further commentary. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part for largely the same reasons as that of our 
Investigator. 
Although Ive considered all of the evidence raised by both parties, I may not comment on all 
the points raised as Ill focus on what I think the key points remaining in dispute are. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr Y for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr Y using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Barclays. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr Y was the 
victim of a scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr Y is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Barclays accept it should have intervened at the point of Mr Ys disputed payment of 
£28,400 taken on 30 November 2020. It doesnt think earlier payments were all that unusual 
when considering Mr Ys normal account activity. Mr Y accepted our investigators view on 
this point. 
As neither party disputes this particular point, I dont need to make a finding on whether 
earlier payments ought to have triggered as I agree with our Investigator and Barclays 
consideration of earlier payments and why this particular payment was unusual for Mr Y. 
Barclays further accept that it missed an opportunity to provide an effective warning in 
relation to the payments from 30 November 2020 to 6 January 2021. Which is what 
prompted it to refund 50% of Mr Ys payments  taking into consideration its failings as well 
as Mr Ys. It says there were multiple credible scam reviews published online about N and if 
Mr Y had carried out the research he describes, he ought to have seen the scam reviews 
which ought to have dissuaded him from investing with N. This isnt disputed by Mr Y. I think Barclays assessment on these points are fair. I think Barclays ought to have provided a 
meaningful scam warning and given Mr Ys lack of experience in this type of investment, I 
think an earlier warning would have likely prevented him from paying further funds to the 
scammers. But I also think Mr Y ought to have reasonably seen the negative reviews about 
N if he carried out the searches he said he carried out. Multiple credible scam reviews pre-
date his investment with N. And upon seeing these (which I think Mr N ought reasonably to 
have seen) they should have dissuaded him from investing with N. I do however accept this 
was a very sophisticated scam and I think it would have taken a financial professional (like 
Barclays) to explain the way in which these scams operate to Mr N, particularly with the use 
of fake trading platforms and permitting early withdrawals to make everything seem credible. 
What is in dispute is whether or not Barclays acted fairly when choosing not to refund the 
remaining disputed transactions taken after 6 January 2021.  
In Barclays final response and submission to this service, it says it held a very long and 
detailed conversation with Mr Y where it identified and informed Mr Y that this was a scam. 
It says it strongly advised not to send anymore money to the scammers. But Mr Y proceeded 
to issue further payments. 
Barclays has not provided any evidence to support this claim. Barclays has provided calls (in 
four parts) where it spoke with Mr Y on 6 January 2021 but there was no scam warning 
provided in any of the calls. Ive carefully checked Barclays notes recorded during this time 
and Ive not seen any supporting evidence that Mr Y was provided with meaningful warnings 
on this particular date. And so, I dont think Barclays has substantiated its assertion that it 
gave Mr Y a detailed warning. 
Barclays notes indicate it intervened in other payments and its fraud team blocked payments 
towards the scam on 14 December 2020, 17 December 2020, 4 January 2021 and 22 
January 2021. Upon the first block, Mr Y was asked to visit a branch with two forms of 
identification. However, this doesnt evidence that a meaningful warning was given and in my 
judgement, all Barclays did was sought to verify Mr Ys identity and that hed authorised the 
payments. There is a script quoted upon further blocks but none of these are particularly 
meaningful to the investment scam Mr Y found himself the victim of. So I cannot agree 
Barclays provided Mr Y with a meaningful warning. Barclays has had the opportunity to 
provide the evidence it has relied upon but it has failed to do so. 
And so, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mr Y his remaining losses 
covering the period from 6 January 2021 to 15 January 2021, plus interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should;
Refund Mr Y 50% of his disputed payments from 6 January 2021 to 15 January 2021
Pay 8% simple interest per year, on the above amount from the respective dates of 
payment (less any lawfully deductible tax)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman