DRN-4360779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained to Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift Advances about a 
second charge loan. The loan was originally taken out with lender W and it was transferred 
to lender C in May 2018. Lender C then transferred it to Swift in April 2023.
Mr and Mrs W have asked how it is possible the debt was transferred from lender W after it 
had gone bankrupt, and they believe the debt was dissolved when lender W closed.  They 
also said the later transfer to Swift (after theyd raised a complaint) was obviously trying to 
avoid investigation by the ombudsman.
They want Swift to provide them with a letter of no further interest and for the charge to be 
removed from their property.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W borrowed around £11,000 (plus PPI and fees) from lender W. The 
loan was set up with a term of 15 years and 6 months and it was secured on their property.
The following information is taken from the contact notes provided by Swift (which are a 
contemporaneous record of the contact between the parties):
The loan fell into arrears in 2009.
Over the years there was contact between lender W and Mr and Mrs W, with payments 
being missed and conversations were held between the parties about the reasons for 
that. I wont detail all those discussions here. 
The last payment was made in August 2016.
In February 2017 the interest was suppressed on the account.
In April 2017 Mr W discussed the possibility of a reduced settlement with lender W. 
Lender W agreed to accept £3,500 in full and final settlement of the debt (which stood at 
over £8,000). Unfortunately Mr and Mrs W were unable to raise the funds required and 
the reduced settlement agreement expired at the end of May 2017.
In June 2017 Mr W said hed received his account statement and he had some 
questions about the account. As part of that the notes indicated Mr W was disputing the 
balance and wanted it written off.
In October 2018 Mrs W called as shed received a letter about the loan. She was told it 
was about their secured loan that had been held with lender W, at which point the call 
disconnected.
In October 2019 a field agent visited the property on three occasions and when there 
was no answer at the door they left letters, which werent responded to.
In February 2023 Mr W called to say hed received a letter about the account. He said 
he wouldnt be paying and lender C should take him to court. He believed the account 
was statute barred, and lender W had gone bust in 2011.
Lender C dealt with that contact as a complaint and it responded by issuing a final response 
letter in March 2023. It didnt uphold the complaint, saying correspondence had been sent 
(and a field agent had visited the property, leaving further letters) and the debt wasnt statute 
barred. It enclosed a copy of the credit agreement and legal charge, and said the charge 
would only be removed once the debt was settled.
The complaint was referred to our service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. He said the 
terms of the loan allow it to be transferred at any point and as Mr and Mrs W had borrowed 
the money it was reasonable for the original or current lender to expect it to be repaid.
Mr and Mrs W said they wanted an ombudsman to look at the case as they believe the debt 
cannot be sold 8 years after [lender W] became bankrupt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further I should correct a misapprehension on the part of Mr and Mrs W in 
relation to the position of lender W. The formal winding up of lender W didnt commence until 
December 2019, and the company was dissolved in November 2021. Whilst lender W went 
into administration in 2011, from then the administrators were running the company. That is 
allowed. Loans continued to run as they normally would, with the administrators periodically 
selling books of loans off to other lenders. Thats not unusual in situations like this and is as I 
would expect. A loan secured against a property normally isnt just written off if the lender 
enters administration, instead the loan will be transferred to a new lender.
Mr and Mrs W signed the Legal Charge form when they took out the loan, clause 7 of which 
said:
The Lender includes its assigns and the Owner and where applicable the Other 
Occupiers agree that the Lender may assign the benefit of the charge to another person 
at its absolute discretion.
A clause like this is normal in mortgage and second charge loan contracts, and it isnt at all 
unusual in the second charge loan market for loans to be transferred to different lenders 
during the term (sometimes multiple times).
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W signed to agree that theyd be bound by the terms of the 
contract. Im also satisfied that under those contract terms lender W (or latterly its 
administrators) was entitled to transfer the loan to lender C, and then lender C was entitled 
to transfer the loan onto Swift.
Mr and Mrs W have said the loan was transferred to Swift to try to avoid investigation. But 
thats not the case. The transfer discussions would have started long in advance of the 
actual transfer (and long before Mr and Mrs W complained) and a whole book of loans would 
have been transferred, not just Mr and Mrs Ws loan.
As our Investigator has explained it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
decide if a debt is statute barred as only the courts can decide that. We can however 
consider whether the lender acted fairly by asking Mr and Mrs W to repay the debt. It seems no payments have been made to the account since August 2016. Whilst interest on 
the account has been suppressed since February 2017 there is still a debt in excess of 
£8,000 outstanding. Lender W and then lender C had been writing to, and attempting to 
phone, Mr and Mrs W regularly over the years. In terms of this complaint Im satisfied a debt 
remains outstanding, the lenders have been actively attempting to contact Mr and Mrs W 
about that debt and, under the terms of the contract, the loan could be transferred to lender 
C and then to Swift. Therefore taking into account everything Ive set out above, there are no 
grounds for me to order the removal of the charge from the property or for me to say Swift 
shouldnt pursue the debt with Mr and Mrs W.
If Mr and Mrs W feel there are legal challenges to be made here then they are free to take 
matters to court or to raise these arguments if Swift takes it to court, but before they do so 
they may wish to seek specialist professional legal advice. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman