DRN-3884332
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Gold Service, 
Platinum and Premier packaged accounts. 
Mr P has given a number of reasons why he says that the accounts were mis-sold. These 
include that he says that many of benefits were not suitable for his needs or were later 
removed but the price stayed the same. Mr P says he was unable to claim on many of the 
products due to his employment. He also says he was told that having the accounts would 
improve his chances of getting an overdraft and obtaining loans. 
Account history
Mr Ps account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free current account in 1990
Changed to a Gold Service account since at least September 2000
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account on 3 September 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account on 1 May 2008
Downgraded to a fee-free account 13 April 2022
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they ultimately thought that the 
packaged accounts were not mis-sold.
Mr P disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most likely happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having considered everything, on balance, I dont think 
that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, before I address the individual accounts, I note that the accounts were likely to have 
been sold on an advised basis. This means that Lloyds was required to check that the 
package as a whole was appropriate for Mr Ps circumstances. Although I should add that 
because the accounts were sold as a package, Mr P could not pick and choose what they 
came with. Therefore, although Mr P (like many packaged account holders) may not have 
needed all of the benefits they provided, this doesnt necessarily mean they were mis-sold.
Gold Service account
Due to how long ago this account was sold, Lloyds doesnt know when exactly Mr P 
upgraded his account to a Gold Service account. However, Lloyds has provided evidence to 
show that Mr P took out a Gold Service loan on 1 September 2000. And he could only obtain 
a Gold Service loan if he had a Gold Service account, so Im satisfied that Mr P had a Gold 
account since at least that date.
Around that time the account cost £8 per month and provided benefits such as Worldwide 
travel insurance and extended warranty cover. It also provided banking benefits such as a 
£100 interest free overdraft facility with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances 
above this amount (up to the arranged limit). And it provided preferential interest rates on 
loans as well.
 
I can see that Mr P was able to get a preferential interest rate on two Gold Service loans, 
one taken out in September 2000 and another in 2002. Before these loans, Mr P had taken 
out a number of loans with Lloyds, this includes loans that were taken out even before the 
existence of the Gold Service account. And whilst I dont know whether Mr P had an 
overdraft in place at the time, if he did, he wouldve been able to benefit from the £100 
interest free overdraft feature, as well as being charged lower rates of overdraft interest than 
if hed continued with a fee-free account.
Therefore, based on the information that is available, it seems that Mr P was aware that fee-
free accounts were available to him, and that he was aware he didnt need to have the Gold 
Service account to be able to obtain borrowing. So I think its more likely that Mr P agreed to 
the Gold Service account because he was attracted to, and was able to make use of the 
benefits (the banking benefits in particular) that it provided  rather than because he thought 
he needed it to improve his chances of obtaining credit.
As such, from the evidence that is available, Im not able to conclude that the Gold Service 
account was likely to have been mis-sold.
Platinum account
When Mr P upgraded to the Platinum account in September 2007, it cost £15 per month and 
provided benefits such as worldwide family travel insurance, enhanced breakdown cover 
and mobile phone insurance. It also included banking benefits such as a £250 interest-free 
overdraft facility with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above this amount 
(up to the arranged limit). And it paid interest on any credit balance, as well provide better 
interest rates on savings accounts.
Looking at the customer notes, it appears that Mr P called Lloyds to upgrade the account for 
the enhanced breakdown cover it provided. I can also see that Mr P went on to register 
phones under the mobile phone insurance, and Mr P was also able to use the travel 
insurance too (although I appreciate he might not have been covered for any times he 
travelled abroad for work purposes). I also cant see that Mr P changed his overdraft limit 
when he upgraded from the Gold Service account to the Platinum  although by upgrading 
he was able to benefit from the increased overdraft benefits the Platinum account provided. 
And as the account was consistently operating within an overdraft, it seems that Mr P was 
able to make use of both the banking and insurance benefits on the account. 
So the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that Mr P upgraded because he thought it was 
the only way he could secure further credit. On the contrary, there are quite detailed notes 
about Mr P needing to re-mortgage prior to upgrading, due to a change in his personal 
circumstances. And theres nothing in the notes to indicate that the type of package account 
held had any bearing on Mr Ps ability to obtain credit. Furthermore, I cant see anything about Mr Ps circumstances that wouldve prevented him from using the bulk of the benefits 
included with the account. For example, although Mr P says that he would sometimes have 
to go abroad for work, the evidence provided by Lloyds indicates that he was largely based 
in the UK and so wouldve been able to make use of the insurance benefits on the account.
Therefore, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the Platinum account was unsuitable for Mr 
Ps circumstances and so I dont think it was likely to have been mis-sold.
Premier account
Mr P upgraded his account to a Premier account on 1 May 2008. At the time it cost £25 per 
month and provided benefits such as worldwide family travel insurance, enhanced 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, Identity theft protection and home emergency 
cover. It also provided a £500 interest free overdraft facility, with preferential interest rates on 
overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the arranged limit).
The notes indicate that Mr P agreed to upgrade for the Home Emergency cover in particular. 
And again, his circumstances at the time suggest he was able to benefit from the bulk of the 
account benefits provided. 
Like the Platinum account, I appreciate that Mr P may not have been covered where he 
travelled abroad for work purposes. But again, the customer notes and bank statements 
indicate that Mr P was still able to use the insurance products despite the nature of his job  
for example, Mr P and his family would still have been covered (subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy) when he travelled abroad for non-work purposes. 
There does not appear to have been any change to Mr Ps overdraft around the time he 
upgraded from Platinum to Premier account. So the evidence doesnt suggest that Mr P 
upgraded on the basis that he thought it would secure further credit. Although I do think the 
interest free overdraft and preferential interest rates included with the account mayve been 
(in part) a reason why Mr P agreed to upgrade. 
So overall, the evidence Ive been provided with doesnt suggest that the Premier account 
was unsuitable for Mr P. Because of this, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds 
recommendation was unreasonable.
Finally, Lloyds was required to provide Mr P with important information about the accounts 
during each sale, so that he understood what he was agreeing to.
Mr P registered a large number of phones over the years he had the accounts. He also 
claimed on the travel insurance; and also claimed on the home emergency cover a number 
of times. And given that he knew about the relevant cover; how to go about registering his 
handsets; and how to claim, this all suggests that Mr P was given at least some information 
about the packaged account benefits so that he had a good appreciation of what he was 
agreeing to, when they were sold to him.
As its not clear what exactly was discussed during each sale, I accept that Mr P might not 
have been given all of the important information about all of the benefits. But equally, Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off (at the time of the sales) from 
agreeing to the accounts, had he been given more information about them.
Finally, I note that Mr P has said he had a travel claim declined, and also had an issue with 
the home emergency cover. If Mr P is unhappy with how his claims were handled, he will 
need to raise his concerns with the insurers of those products, rather than Lloyds. This is because Lloyds is only responsible for selling the products to Mr P, and not in handling any 
claims submitted under those insurance products.
So taking everything into account, overall Im unable to say that the packaged accounts were 
mis-sold. On the contrary, it seems more likely that Mr P agreed to them because he was 
attracted to some of the benefits that they provided, rather than because he thought he 
needed them to obtain further credit. I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight and with 
the changes made to the account benefits over the years, Mr P may now feel they may not 
have been as good value for money as he initially thought they would be. But that doesnt 
mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold them to him when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman