DRN-3572549
The complaint
Mr S complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He
says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr S is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In June 1991, Mr S was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan.
At the time, Mr S was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
him making a monthly contribution of £158.25 (gross). This plan lasted until September 
1995, with a final contribution of £121.76. Another plan was taken out in June 1996, by 
which time Mr Ss membership within the OPS had changed. This plan had gross monthly 
contributions of £375. The last contribution was paid in February 2014.
 
Mr S has since moved the FSAVCs to a flexible drawdown plan.
In May 2007, while still making contributions to the FSAVC plan, Mr S contracted to buy 
added years through his employers OPS. He paid a total of 9% of his pensionable salary to 
buy 5 years 254 days.
In 2018, Mr S complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plan. In summary, he 
complained that the FSAVC plan was not suitable for his needs and he shouldve been
advised to purchase added years through his employers scheme.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr S had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Ss file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2019 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed that overall Mr S had made a gain of £56,565.70 as a result of taking out his 
FSAVC plans. So no redress was due. This gain was in part due to the value that the 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) on Mr Ss plans added to the fund value. 
Mr S didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
In summary, Mr S is concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss assessment. 
He doesnt think its fair to apply the GAR to a notional fund value and believes this goes 
against the loss calculation rules as set out in the FSAVC Mis-Selling Review Guidance.
Ombudsmans provisional findings
Having now reviewed matters, I think Wesleyan needs to do more to put things right. So Ive 
set my thoughts out below.
Overall I dont think the approach Wesleyan has taken is unreasonable in terms of the added
years side of the calculation. Both parties will be aware of my view in terms of the GAR 
being included. However, when the initial calculation was run, Mr S hadnt taken his benefits.
I understand he has now transferred his plan to drawdown plan, following advice from 
Wesleyan. This doesnt alter my thoughts around the inclusion of the GAR in the calculation, 
although I do appreciate that Mr S hasnt actually received this increased value as he opted 
not to utilise the GAR, it would appear because he didnt require the income and wished to 
retain the funds from the FSAVCs for his children. It wouldnt have been possible for Mr S to 
have moved his fund if hed joined the added years arrangement. So it seems that he has in 
fact benefited from the flexibility the FSAVC plan has given him.
I appreciate that the advice to transfer and give up his GAR was provided by Wesleyan. But 
that doesnt alter my decision. I dont think it can be argued that Mr S didnt know the GAR 
was valuable. I say this because the main point to his complaint has been that the GAR has 
inflated his fund value significantly. And just because someone has chosen to give up a 
GAR, it doesnt automatically follow that that advice was inappropriate. It has to be weighed 
up against, among other things, the consumers objectives, capacity to give up the 
guaranteed income and their other pension provisions. Its not for me to comment on 
Wesleyans advice in this regard. If Mr S has any concerns about this, thats a separate 
matter that he will need to raise with Wesleyan.
However, the GAR Wesleyan has based its calculation on is a single life, level annuity thats
guaranteed for 5 years. I think a fairer comparison would be to base the value on a GAR that
more closely matches the lost benefits, so an annuity providing a 50% spouses pension,
increasing in line with RPI. Its not clear at present what difference this will make to a loss
calculation because the GAR is determined on the same actuarial basis as the one 
Wesleyan has already used in its calculations. But I think Wesleyan should rerun the 
calculation in order to determine whether Mr S has suffered a loss.
Mr S also continued to contribute to his FSAVC plan until 2014. Im satisfied that, had the 
FSAVC plan not been mis-sold, its likely that the contributions paid after April 2006 would 
have been directed to the cheaper in-house AVC scheme. But just because Mr S would 
have paid less in charges to the in-house AVC after 2006, it doesnt necessarily mean that 
he has suffered a loss as a result of continuing to contribute to the FSAVC.
I think Wesleyan should carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC 
(for excess contributions after April 2006 only). If it can demonstrate that the FSAVCs 
performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges Mr S has 
paid, then it may conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a result of these excess 
contributions being paid to the FSAVC rather than the in-house AVC. I have previously set 
out the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to make this comparison. I dont intend to 
repeat that in full here but Im happy to confirm this if either party requires clarification.
If the above calculation produces a loss, Wesleyan should complete a standard charges only
calculation on the excess contributions paid after April 2006.
Mr Ss final submissions 
Mr Ss representative has said that it is in agreement with the main conclusion, with the 
exception of the following points. These historical Medical Sickness Society policies, that Wesleyan is using in its loss 
assessments were with profit policies up to approximately 1998. The pre-1998 
schemes did not specify the charges associated with the policies. Bulletin No. 4 
published after the FSAVC Review Guidance was issued, was intended to be specific 
to highlight how such policies should be dealt with when charges were not detailed in 
the policy documents. Wesleyan however use 1.5% in their loss calculations which 
undercalculates the loss. 
And it does not agree with my findings that Wesleyan isnt being unfair by advising 
Mr S to not select the guaranteed annuity option, but at the same time including the 
value of the GAR in the loss assessment, just because he did not want to take an 
income. In todays market place the vast majority of clients do not want to take an 
annuity and it would appear that Wesleyans own representatives are also agreeing 
that this GAR feature is not that attractive to the vast majority of consumers in the 
same position as Mr S.
Wesleyans final submissions
Wesleyan has said that it agrees with my findings. Its happy to recalculate the value of the 
GAR benefit attaching to the FSAVC Plan using an annuity rate on an equivalent but it 
expects this approach to significantly increase the value of the GAR benefit and hence the 
Plan value used within the loss assessment. But it has said that it would like confirmation as 
to whether, if allowing for the RPI linked GAR terms would increase the gain that its 
previously calculated, is it still required to update the Added Years calculation, and if so 
whether it should do so based on the RPI linked GAR terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss representative remains of the view that the 1.5% annual management charge, or 
reduction in yield, that Wesleyan uses in it charges only calculation for the type of FSAVC 
plan that Mr S has, is unfair.  It thinks that this is not in line with the FSVAC review guidance, 
in particular Bulletin No 4, which Ive set out below.
Model Guidance, Section 6 - Loss assessment) This section of the guidance states, 
among other things, that:
Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in the in-
house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC (Paragraph 6.17, 
emphasis added) As noted in paragraph 6.17.7 the FSAVC charges borne by the 
investor will normally be apparent.
Where details of charges are available firms should use them. However, there may 
be exceptions to this  for example in respect of certain with profits policies. Where 
details of charges are not available, firms may reasonably use Reduction in Yield 
(RIY) information calculated for product disclosure purposes as a proxy for the 
average charges. This RIY information is likely to be available within:
 essential product information (Key Features), for sales from 1 January 1995; and
 product particulars and With Profits Guides, for sales from 1 March 1990.
Firms should use product specific RIY information where this information is readily 
available, or where the firm could reasonably be expected to obtain it. ()Firms may reasonably use a default assumption, but only where they lack details of 
the charges or RIY information ()
Where commission has been taken and annual management charge or RIY 
information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to assume that the charges 
borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 2.9% a year. This is 
based on the RIY for an FSAVC policy with contributions of £100 per month over a 
ten year term as reported in the Watson Wyatt AVC survey published in May 1999, 
see Consultation Paper 27 for details. Firms may use an alternative assumption if 
there is demonstrable evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate.
Wesleyan has confirmed that its actuaries have recently completed a piece work where they 
looked at the RIY for Medical Sickness Society Fund AVC plans with a range of entry dates, 
where the plans are shortly coming up to retirement. Its actuaries have found that the 
maximum RIY was 1.2% and the average was 1%. So, being prudent, Wesleyan considers 
1.5% reasonable at this point in time.
Ive thought carefully about what Wesleyan has said and whether its in line with the above 
guidance.  
The guidance states that if the RIY is unknown, or the firm lacks details of the RIY or this 
information is not available, then the default assumptions should be used. But thats not the 
case here. Wesleyan does know what the RIY is, or, it knows the range that its within. The 
guidance also allows a firm to make an alternative assumption if there is demonstratable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumptions is inappropriate. So overall, while accept that the 
default assumption would work in favour of the consumer, Im not persuaded that Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable by using 1.5%, when its actuaries have determined that the RIY for 
plans, such as Mr Ss is actually between 1% and 1.2%. 
Inclusion of GAR value
On a previous case I acknowledged that, since the introduction of the pension freedoms 
legislation, there has been a reduction in the number of consumers that opt to take a 
guaranteed income at retirement. That complaint had been upheld on the basis that the 
consumer would have joined the in-house AVC scheme if they hadnt been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. So I said that I didnt think it was fair to include the value of the GAR when 
determining whether a loss has been suffered. 
This was because, if the consumer been in the in-house AVC, their options at retirement 
wouldnt havent been limited to securing a guaranteed income. They would have had more 
flexibility in how they took their benefits. And crucially, when making a comparison between 
the FSVAC and the in-house AVC, that made on either the basis of the fund value, or the 
difference between the charges. And so I didnt think it fair for the value of the GAR to be 
included. Thats not to say that the GAR on these plans isnt valuable, it is. Thats why I also 
said that Wesleyan can take any payment it makes now for higher charges into account, 
should the consumer go on to use the GAR on their plan. 
In the case of Mr S, both parties have agreed that he would have bought added years in his 
employers OPS had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. The added years arrangement 
would only have provided a guaranteed income, there would not have been any flexibility in 
the way the benefits could be taken. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to 
base the value of Mr Ss plan on the guaranteed income Mr Ss plan could have provided. The comparison here is being made with the guaranteed income that the added years 
arrangement would have provided - this isnt based on a fund value for the added years 
arrangement - and so Im satisfied that this is a fair way to make the comparison as the 
value of the FSAVC plan should also be based on the equivalent benefits that could have 
been provided, had Mr S opted to take the guaranteed income, in the same way that he 
would been required to take it from the added years arrangement. 
I dont the fact that Mr S has chosen to forgo this income in order to meet his objectives 
means that he is being treated unfairly. He has complained t he wasnt advised to take 
added years and the FSAVC plan could have provided virtually the same benefits, yet he 
opted to take his benefits in a different form.  
While I acknowledge that in todays market place less consumers are taking annuities than 
before the pension freedoms reforms, I think that generally the reduction here has been with 
consumers that dont have a GAR attached to their plans. This is because annuity rates on 
the open market have dropped considerably. Wesleyan has said that the majority of its plans 
holders that have GAR use it at retirement. I do appreciate thats not the case for Mr S, and 
possibly some others in a similar position to him. But I still dont think this means Wesleyan 
is being unfair by including the value of the GAR in its loss assessment. Instead I think this 
suggests that although Mr S has complained that he should have been advised to take 
added years, in hindsight, hes actually in a better position for having not taken them and 
instead having the freedom to choose what he does with his benefits. 
I appreciate that Wesleyan believes its likely the value of providing the GAR will increase 
significantly, due mainly to the increasing in line with RPI factor being included. But Im 
conscious that it has only run this calculation on one other case so far. And so I think it 
should still rerun the calculation on Mr Ss case, in order to see if it does make a difference 
overall to his loss, particularly as Mr S has transferred his benefits since the calculation was 
initially run. 
Putting things right
Added years
As at the date of my final decision:
Wesleyan should rerun its calculation using the most recent financial assumptions. And the 
fund value should be based on the GAR for an annuity that provides a 50% spouses benefit 
and increases in line with RPI. 
Excess contributions paid after April 2006
As at the date of the FSAVC plan was transferred, if Wesleyan wishes to consider whether 
no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a notional value for the in-house AVC scheme 
(in respect of the excess contributions) as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other half, 
the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this 
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable 
return without risk to the capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to get a 
higher return.So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his objective 
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC (in respect of the excess
contributions) with this notional value. If the actual value exceeds the notional value no
financial loss has been suffered and it need not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical 
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the 
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to 
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would ordinarily 
be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking this 
particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it 
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.If a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr S the value of the excess charges as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a 
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint and require Wesleyan
Assurance Society to complete the calculation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman