DRN-1822864
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty blinds.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr W bought some blinds costing £3,636 funded by a deposit of £736 
and the balance with a fixed sum loan. Repayments were deferred by 12 months from the 
date of supply and if the loan was repaid before this date no interest would be payable.
The blinds were installed but Mr W noticed there were gaps letting light in. The supplier sent 
a surveyor who recommended duplex blinds, but Mr W wanted individual ones. The blinds 
were removed and new ones fitted to Mr Ws satisfaction. There were delays in fitting the 
new blinds and Mr W was left without for several weeks.
Some months later Mr W noticed the blinds were different colours. They were taken down 
and replaced, but this took several more weeks. He says the final set of blinds are too small 
and he asked they be removed and he be refunded. He contacted Hitachi and it spoke with 
the supplier. The matter was passed to the British Blind and Shutters Association (BBSA) 
which carried out an investigation.
Mr W contacted Hitachi and said that the interest free period should be extended. He has 
also said that the bottoms of the blinds were defective.
In January 2020 the BBSA concluded the gaps fell within industry standards and the initial 
survey showed the planned gaps at the edges. Hitachi rejected his claim and Mr W brought 
the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators.
She noted the photos provided and thought the fabric didnt line up with the rails and the 
bottom covers looked unfinished with some bits cut off or broken. However, she didnt think 
this was sufficient to conclude there had been a breach of contract. She took note of the 
BBSA inspectors conclusions that the gaps were considered acceptable as they fall within 
the industry standards.
She agreed that the bottoms appeared to have been damaged, but these could be replaced. 
She believed the supplier was willing to replace the bottom covers. Our investigator didnt 
think this merited the return of the blinds. Nor could she say that the blinds were of poor 
quality as no evidence had been provided to support that claim.
As for the interest free period she noted Hitachi had extended this by three months which 
she considered fair. Mr W didnt agree and said he wasnt happy with the blinds and he felt 
he was within his rights to return any product with which he was unhappy. He said his wife 
needed to able to shut the light out and shutters fitted to other windows worked well. He 
thought Hitachi was wrong to pay the money over to the supplier until he was satisfied with 
the product. He suggested the supplier should reduce the cost and Hitachi should defer the 
interest free period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I have every sympathy with Mr W, but I dont consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The retailer accepted the original blinds were not satisfactory and agreed to replace them. 
That was a reasonable response. As for the later blinds I note the surveyor suggested 
duplex blinds would be better for Mr Ws requirements, but he wanted individual ones.
I also have noted the survey details that due to skirting boards at either end there would be 
gaps of some 25 mm. It also states that there would be approximately 6 mm spacing 
between the blinds. So I think the possibility of gaps was made clear.
In matters such as this I have to rely on those with the relevant expertise and the report from 
the BBSA states that the blinds were within acceptable tolerances. I have looked at the 
photographs and I am not persuaded that these show the blinds are defective. Nor can I see 
that the blinds were not of a satisfactory quality. Mr W has supplied no evidence to support 
that claim. Consumer law doesnt allow for goods to be returned simply because the 
customer is unhappy.
I have noted that the bottoms are in need of some repair and though I have seen no 
evidence to say when this damage occurred I understand the retailer has agreed to repair 
them. I consider that to be a fair response. I have noted that Mr W has asked that the repairs 
be carried out and I trust that has been done or will be done soon.
I also consider Hitachis offer to defer the interest free period by three months to be 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman