DRN-2631847
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that was taken out jointly by Ms B and her partner 
(whom Ill call G) with The Mansfield Building Society. Ms B died in 2019; her estate is 
represented here by her brother Mr B, one of the executors, and by Mr A, who has been 
authorised by Mr B to bring the complaint.
The complaint is that Mansfield refused to provide information about the mortgage directly to 
Mr B to assist him in obtaining probate. It insisted on sending the information to a nominated 
solicitor, which has caused Ms Bs estate to incur legal costs. The other executor is G.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think 
it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms B died in the spring of 2019: her will named Mr B and G as executors; Mr B authorised 
Mr A to assist him in dealing with his late sisters affairs. Mr A has told us G reserved his 
position. Ive taken that, along with other comments about Gs actions, to mean G wasnt 
willing to co-operate with Mr B, and hes played no part in this complaint.
Mr A asked Mansfield to provide detailed information about the mortgage: Mansfield thought 
the information being asked for was excessive and would only send it to a nominated 
solicitor. The involvement of the solicitors meant that Ms Bs estate incurred legal costs, 
which Mr A says Mansfield should reimburse. Hes also said it should make an ex-gratia 
payment to recognise significant stress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr A has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Ms B was a consumer, and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. Following Ms Bs death, 
eligibility to complain vested in her estate. 
The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr B as 
executor can complain on the estates behalf; or he can authorise Mr A to do so instead.
But I must explain that, although Mr A is representing Ms Bs estate, it is Ms B who was 
Mansfields customer at the time of her death. Mr As role is to bring the complaint on the 
estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant 
to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mr A to air his own grievances (or 
those of Mr B) about Mansfield, because he and Mr B are not its customers.
Mr As role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint, and any redress that might be 
claimed can only be for loss to the estate. Mr A cannot claim compensation for any time, 
trouble or upset he (or Mr B) might have suffered whilst dealing with the estates affairs.
As to the merits of the case itself, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for 
the following reasons:
Ms B and G owned the property as joint tenants, meaning the equitable interest in the 
property is now held in trust between G and Ms Bs estate. But the mortgage on the 
property passed wholly to G. So, Gs sole mortgage is now secured over a property 
owned 50% by G and 50% by Ms Bs estate. 
I can see why the estate wanted to know about the mortgage  its secured over the 
estates share of the property. But Mansfield could only pass information about the 
mortgage to Ms Bs estate if its customer consented, and when Mansfield approached G, 
he didnt give his consent. 
It might be reasonable for Mansfield to have given a redemption figure to Mr B so that he 
knew how much the estate would need to pay to discharge the mortgage over the 
property it owned a share of, but no more than that. Mr A has asked for much more 
besides just the outstanding balance. Hed also asked for a full payment history and 
details of any arrears that may have existed.
In the circumstances, I think Mansfield acted sensibly and fairly in seeking advice from 
its solicitors on the best way forward to assist the estate whilst at the same time 
preserving the privacy of its customer (who by then was G alone). The advice it received 
was to agree to send the information to nominated solicitors. That this has resulted in 
costs for the estate is unfortunate, but not unfair given the circumstances. Meanwhile, 
Ive noted Mr As opinion to the contrary, but it seems to me theres a likelihood that 
resolving the equity and trust position between Ms Bs estate and G might yet require 
further legal input.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman