DRN-2873894
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that contributions she made to her SIPP on the advice of Mercer Limited 
exceeded the annual allowance for several years. As a result shes suffered a tax charge. 
What happened
Mercer accepts that it made an error and that Ms S was given incorrect advice about the 
pension contributions she could make. Shes incurred a tax charge of £11,398.37. Mercer 
has offered to reimburse Ms S £4,559.35, pay her £500 for distress and inconvenience and 
meet any reasonable costs and charges. I understand that includes Ms Ss accountants 
fees and a late payment charge imposed by HMRC 
Ms S doesnt think Mercers offer is enough. She says Mercer should meet the full amount of 
the tax charge. Shes also suggested Mercer should pay interest at 8% pa and refund fees. 
One of our investigators considered Ms Ss complaint. He thought what Mercer had offered 
was fair and reasonable. In summary he said:
Mercers advice fees covered more than advice about the level of contributions. Ms S 
had benefited from other advice/services so it wouldnt be fair to say Mercer should 
refund its fees.
Ms S hadnt lost the contributions shed made. Theyd been invested throughout and 
had benefited from growth. Additional interest at 8% pa wasnt appropriate. Mercer 
had covered Ms Ss accountants time and would meet HMRCs late payment penalty 
charge. 
How Mercer had calculated financial loss was in line with what wed expect. Had 
thered been no error, Ms S wouldve retained the contributions as income from her 
employer and paid tax and national insurance on that money. Instead she has to pay 
the tax charge on the extra contributions and shell also pay income tax on the 
money when she withdraws it as income in retirement. The difference between the 
two amounts was the financial cost of the over contributions. 
Ms S had said shell be a higher rate tax payer in retirement and so shell pay more 
income tax then than Mercers calculation allowed for. Shed been promised a lump 
sum payment of £1 million at age 60 when her employer sold the company she 
worked for. But there was no guarantee that would happen and so the investigator 
didnt think it could be taken into account.
Ms S had said, if she didnt get that payment, shed carry on working until her state 
pension age and continue to contribute to her pension. In addition to her self invested 
personal pension (SIPP) she has deferred benefits in a former employers final salary 
pension scheme and rental income with another property purchase planned. At age 
67 her income would be at least £61,388.40 without taking into account investment 
growth from additional SIPP contributions up to age 67. But the investigator said he 
could only consider Ms Ss existing rental income, the benefits from her two pension 
arrangements and her state pension which meant shed be a basic rate tax payer in 
retirement. 
Ms S raised a number of queries about what the investigator had said. He replied but Ms S 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said:
Mercer had been aware for some years that, based on the number of years shed 
been a company director, shed be receiving a significant sum in the event of a 
company buy out. That had been documented in meetings with Mercer and 
conversations with the shareholder of the company. Her retirement age of 60 is and 
has always been based on the company being bought out then and her receiving a 
significant sum to add to her pension pot. 
If the company wasnt sold then shed continue in her current role. Shed worked for 
the company for some 19 years, enjoyed her role and had no desire to leave. On the 
balance of probabilities, if the company wasnt sold by the time she was 60, shed 
continue in her current role. 
If she worked past her 60th birthday her employer would continue with the same level 
of pension contributions of £3,000 pm. Wed said we couldnt take into account any 
further value or growth as market conditions couldnt be predicted. But shed 
provided evidence of growth over the last twelve months. And it was standard 
practice for pension providers to forecast future growth for a number of years based 
on regular fixed contributions. Taking a balance of probabilities approach it was 
unlikely thered be no growth past age 60. A forecast could be obtained. 
The investigators findings were in part based on what Mercer had said about 
providing her with advice about investing tax efficiently and instead of buying a 
property. Thats an asset which will increase in value  her existing rental property 
had increased by 22% over the last five years. And it provides a yearly income of 
£9,900.  Mercer hadnt provided details of a more tax efficient investment approach. 
And shed have to pay for further advice. She only needed to have an increase in 
income of £280 pa to be in the higher tax bracket based on her current pension 
values which, on the balance of probabilities, was likely, based on increased pension 
contributions alone.
The investigator had said it wouldnt be fair to penalize Mercer but shed been put in 
a disadvantaged position. Shes paid £11,398.37 to HMRC due to Mercers failings. 
Mercer had offered to pay her £4,559.35. But that left her having to pay £6,839.02 
which wasnt a fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercer has accepted that it made errors which resulted in Ms S making contributions in 
excess of the annual allowance. As a result, shes had to pay £11,398.37 to HMRC. Mercer 
has made an offer to redress Ms S. Where, as here, the business accepts that it was at fault 
and has made an offer, I need to decide if the offer is fair and reasonable. 
I agree with what the investigator said about a refund of fees. Where a business has made a 
mistake, it wont usually mean that a refund is due. And here, as the investigator pointed out, 
Ms S has been receiving advice from Mercer for some years as to investments and 
retirement planning generally and which goes beyond advice as to the level of contributions 
shes able to make each year without breaching the annual allowance. 
I also dont see that Ms S should get interest on the tax charge shes had to pay. Her 
(excess) contributions have been invested throughout and have benefited from investment 
growth. I think the £500 offered for distress and inconvenience is fair too. Its at the top end for what 
wed expect for moderate inconvenience (or the lower end for substantial trouble and upset). 
I note that Mercer has paid Ms Ss accountants costs too. Having professional assistance 
shouldve mitigated the inconvenience shes suffered. I think in this case an award between 
moderate and substantial is fair. 
The remaining area of disagreement is whether Mercers offer of £4,559.35 is reasonable. I 
can understand why, because shes had to pay HMRC £11,398.37, Ms S feels its unfair that 
she has to meet the shortfall of £6,839.02. But, and as the investigator has explained, our 
aim in awarding redress is to put the consumer, as far as possible, in the position theyd be 
in now, but for the errors. I think Mercers offer does that. I accept that Ms S wouldnt have 
made the excess contributions if shed known shed exceeded her annual allowance. In that 
case shed have retained the money as part of her salary, instead of paying it into her SIPP. 
Mercers offer compares what Ms S wouldve paid in tax and national insurance with the 
penalty shes had to pay plus the income tax shell pay when she comes to withdraw the 
extra money as income in retirement. On that basis I think the offer is fair.  
Ms S says the offer isnt enough as its based on her being a basic rate taxpayer (assumed 
to be 20%) when she retires. She says shell be a higher rate tax payer and so the redress 
needs to be more to compensate her for the higher tax shell have to pay when she takes 
her retirement income. 
As weve explained, where something isnt agreed, we reach our decisions based on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what we consider to be most likely, in the light of all the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. I understand why, given what shes told us, 
Ms S says we should accept that shell be a higher rate tax payer in retirement. I accept, as 
did the investigator, that is a possibility. But I can also agree with what the investigator said 
about why that might not be the case. 
I accept that Ms S has been given an assurance by the owner of the company that shell 
receive a very substantial payment when the company is sold  probably when Ms S is 60. 
And Mercer has been told that too. Ms H has no reason to doubt that the owner of the 
company wont meet his promise. I accept all shes said about the payment having been 
promised in recognition of her long service. But I dont think that means we must find that the 
payment is more likely to be made than not. Sometimes, what someone has been told will 
happen wont be enough for us to proceed on the basis it will, or is more likely than not, to 
happen.   
Thats especially the case where, as here, the event isnt until sometime in the future. Ms S 
doesnt turn 60 until 2026. Much can happen in the next five years or so. Both in terms of 
what might happen to the company, the owners plans, any sale and the timing thereof. All of 
that is completely outside Ms Ss control. As I understand it, she has no contractual 
entitlement to any payment and no promise or guarantee in writing that she will receive a 
payment and, if so, how much and if there are any pre conditions. While I dont doubt what 
Ms S has said, I dont think it would be fair to proceed on the basis that her expectations will 
be met (although I hope that will be the case). I dont think the anticipated payment can be 
taken into account in awarding redress. 
Ms S has said that, alternatively, if the company isnt sold, shell continue in her current role 
until she reaches state pension age. But, again, its difficult to say, with any confidence, what 
might happen over the next twelve years or so, both in terms of the company, its owners 
plans and Ms Ss own circumstances, including her ability or desire to carry on working. 
Sometimes its not possible to come to reliable conclusions about what might happen some 
way off in the future. That might amount to speculation rather than reaching a decision 
based on whats more likely to happen.From what Ive seen and based on figures Mercer has provided and Ms S retiring at age 60 
(which seems to have been her long term plan), her SIPP fund could be worth £688,000 
(although it could be less or indeed more), which would provide income of £26,700 pa after 
tax free cash. Her final salary scheme, again after tax free cash, will provide an income of 
£3,199 pa. In total thats £29,899 pa. Thats some way off the higher rate tax threshold. 
When Ms S reaches age 67 shell become entitled to her state pension which will provide an 
additional £9,110.40 pa. But thats not enough to make her a higher rate tax payer. 
I accept that Ms S may have rental income to supplement her pension benefits. She 
currently has one property which is let for £9,900 pa. Shes planning another property 
purchase which shell be able to let for £11,400. If thats taken into account her retirement 
income could be £51,199 pa at age 60 which is more or less on the higher tax threshold. 
Getting her state pension could mean she has to pay higher rate tax on some of her income. 
But there are a lot of uncertainties and variables as to what her position may be by then. I 
dont know what will have happened to her rental property (and any second property), if 
shed have retained it and, if not, what alternative investments she may have purchased. 
Its possible that Ms Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement might be 40% (and leaving aside 
future changes to tax regimes and rates which cant be predicted). But if that turns out to be 
the case, I dont think unreasonable to suggest that shell take advice and that she may be 
able to mitigate any higher rate tax liability.  And, if she isnt planning on buying an annuity, 
shell be able to flex her income to meet her needs in any particular tax year and minimise 
her income tax liability.  
All in all, although I know Ms S will be disappointed, I think Mercers offer, based on Ms S 
being a basic rate tax payer in retirement, is fair and reasonable. Im not going to say that 
Mercer needs to pay Ms S any more than it has offered.
My final decision
Mercer Limited has already made an offer to settle Ms Ss complaint. I think the offer is fair in 
all circumstances. So my decision is that Mercer Limited should pay Ms S the sums offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman