DRN-3720165
The complaint
Mr M complains about a trade he made in a gold futures contract through his spread betting 
account with IG Index Limited (IGIL) as the trade was denominated in USD rather than 
GBP.
What happened
Your text here On 29 April 2020 Mr M opened a trade in a gold futures 2150 call option  
denominated in USD. He contacted IGIL some two weeks later saying that he had just 
noticed that one of two positions he had opened had been opened using USD instead of 
pounds sterling, referring to the above trade. He asked for the trade to be transferred to 
pounds sterling as soon as possible as he believed there would be a reduction in the value 
of the dollar.
The initial response Mr M received was that gold futures is denominated in USD and as such 
he was filled in USD and this will be converted into GBP and charged on his account. He 
queried this as he had another position that was denoted in pound sterling. IGIL responded 
and apologised for the earlier information it had provided, which it said related to trades on a 
CFD account not a spread betting account. It said on a spread betting account you can 
choose the currency and that he had chosen GBP for one position and USD for another.
Mr M said he didnt choose USD on opening the position, but that it defaulted to USD and he 
had checked the demo platform and it was doing the same thing. He explained he had taken 
the position because he thought the dollar was going to crumble. There was some further 
communication but nothing was resolved and Mr M then complained to IGIL.
It didnt uphold his complaint, saying that he had selected USD to trade instead of GBP, as 
shown in his order history. It explained that as Mr M was trading in a spread betting account 
he could trade in a currency that was different from that of the underlying market and 
provided a screenshot showing the currency could be changed. It said that it hadnt changed 
the currency he had selected. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators considered it but 
didnt think it should be upheld. He said that based on the evidence Mr M had opened the 
trade in USD instead of GBP. He said the account was execution only and it is the 
customers responsibility to ensure they are happy with the trade before going ahead with an 
order. The investigator said that the explanation provided by IGIL might have caused some 
confusion but he couldnt see that it had made a mistake.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that when taking the trade the option to 
switch currency was not made available and this was something it updated after the 
complaint had been made. The investigator responded and said if Mr M wasnt happy to go 
ahead in USD he shouldnt have placed the trade and there was no evidence that there was 
an update as suggested by him. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case based on the information provided by the 
parties and taking into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; good industry practice at the time - where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. My findings of fact are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to give to evidence 
provided by the parties. 
The account Mr M operated was execution only and as such it was his decision alone as to 
whether he should proceed with a trade or not. He originally suggested that the trade had 
defaulted to USD when he opened it. This suggests that he selected GBP as the currency 
but it defaulted to USD on opening. He has subsequently argued that there was no option to 
select GBP when making the trade, which appears on the face of it to contradict his earlier 
argument. 
There is nothing to support what Mr M has said about the trade defaulting to USD when he 
opened it. In his initial email to IGIL he said he had become aware the trade was 
denominated in USD, which isnt consistent with him being seeing this default to USD at the 
time of the trade. Moreover, if he had been aware of this he could be expected to raise this 
immediately, given on his case he hadnt intended to place a trade in USD, and he didnt. 
Given there is no evidence to support what he has said and it is contradicted by his later 
argument that there wasnt an option to choose GBP in the first place I am not persuaded 
there was a default to USD when he opened his trade.
Mr M subsequently argues that there was no option to select GBP in the first place when he 
placed the trade. Although he has provided screenshots he says support what he has said 
IGIL has also provided screenshots that show that it is possible to select either USD or GBP 
when placing a gold futures trade in a spread betting account. I think it is more likely than not 
that what IGIL has provided shows the actual position. I say this because of the 
inconsistencies in the arguments Mr M has made that I have already referred to and further 
inconsistent statements he has made about not being able to choose the currency when 
trading gold futures that I comment on below.
Even if I was to accept there was no option to choose GBP as the currency at the time and 
that the only option was USD, as he has suggested, he has an execution only account. In 
the circumstances it was his decision alone as to whether he wanted to place a trade or not. 
In other words, if the only currency option for the trade he wanted to place was USD he 
obviously knew this at the time he placed the trade and he cant now complain that isnt the 
currency he wanted to trade in.
Mr M has argued that IGIL updated its system after he complained. In short he is suggesting 
that the option of placing a trade in GBP was added after his trade. IGIL told Mr M there had 
been no change to the process and that it had always been possible to choose GBP as the 
currency in a spread betting account when trading gold futures. In any event, this makes no 
difference to my finding above  namely that if he didnt have the option of choosing GBP as 
the currency when he placed his trade then he chose to place his trade in USD and cant 
now complain about that. If IGIL did change the process subsequently this has nothing to do 
with his decision to place the trade in USD originally.
However, I am briefly going to comment on this as it is another argument Mr M has put forward which is contradicted by other statements he has made and a further reason I dont 
think I should place much weight on his evidence. 
In his complaint letter Mr M challenged what IGIL had originally mistakenly told him about 
gold futures being denominated only in USD on the basis that previous gold futures options 
he had traded had settled in pound sterling. The argument that he was able to choose GBP 
as the currency in gold futures trades he had previously made contradicts Mr Ms argument 
that it was only possible to select GBP as the currency as a result of some later update.
In the circumstances, having considered all the evidence, I think it is more likely than not that 
Mr M chose to place his trade in USD rather than GBP, or he did so mistakenly. In either 
case this wasnt the result of IFDL doing anything wrong. Even if I am wrong about that and 
there was no option to choose GBP at the time, which I think is unlikely on the evidence, the 
account was an execution only account. As such Mr M is responsible for the trades he 
decides to make and IGIL isnt responsible for him deciding to place a trade denominated in 
USD.
My final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman