DRN-1095141
 The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that when he repaid his Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland 
plc the transaction showed on his current account statement as "BOS PLC MORTGAGE 
ARREARS EDINBU". He says this could have impacted on him being able to get credit 
elsewhere as a potential lender would think he had mortgage arrears when he didn't. 
What happened
Mr B had a Halifax mortgage and in May 2019 he made a lump sum payment to redeem it. 
He made the payment by debit card.
Unhappy with the transaction description Mr B complained to Halifax. The first response it 
sent missed the point of the complaint, and the second said it hadn't placed the entry on the 
statement, and the only reference it had on its systems is redemption funds.
Our investigator didn't think Halifax had handled the complaint well and recommended £150 
compensation should be paid to Mr B for that. In addition, they said Halifax should write a 
letter explaining the reference description so Mr B could provide that to any future lenders. 
Halifax agreed with the settlement put forward by the investigator. Mr B didn't accept it 
saying, in summary, he wants answers and more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome.
Were impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this means 
is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked and 
answered. For that reason I won't be ordering Halifax to provide an explanation to Mr B 
including details of any transaction codes used.
Before I go any further I feel I must correct something Mr B has said. In his response to our 
investigator he said "...earlier delays in the process when the FOS misfiled my complaint and 
took no action until I chased the complaint". But Mr B's complaint has never been "misfiled", 
it was simply waiting in a queue to be allocated. It was allocated to an investigator when it 
reached the front of the queue, and this would have happened irrespective of whether Mr B 
chased it up.It's not in dispute that Mr B's current account statement makes reference to mortgage 
arrears, but I don't need to decide why that happened to fairly decide this complaint however 
much Mr B may want me to. Whilst Mr B may want answers I don't need them to decide 
what a fair outcome is.
Mr B has said he'd been looking at moving house but had to delay that in light of the issue. 
But that doesn't make sense. Mr B has said he knows enough about banking (from working 
for a bank) to know that Halifax's response was incorrect. In which case I'd expect him to 
also know enough about banking to know a lender wouldn't decline to lend based on one 
narrative line for one transaction on one bank statement (that's if it even asked for a copy of 
that particular month's bank statement and noticed the narrative, of course). The lender 
would carry out a credit search and it would be immediately apparent from the search that 
Mr B's mortgage wasn't in arrears.
There was absolutely no reason why Mr B couldn't have put his house on the market, found 
a house to buy and applied for a new mortgage in the period immediately following the 
redemption of the Halifax mortgage if that's what he really wanted to do.
Putting things right
Halifax has agreed to pay £150 for the poor way it handled Mr B's complaint and I consider 
that's fair and reasonable. I understand Mr B wants a higher payment but it's simply not 
warranted. There was no reason for anyone other than him to even see his bank statement 
and, even if they did, for the reasons I've explained above it wouldn't have been a barrier to 
any potential future lending.
Halifax has also agreed to issue a letter to Mr B explaining the payment was for the full 
redemption of his mortgage (rather than to repay arrears) and confirming that the mortgage 
account wasn't in arrears. That, combined with Mr B's credit file and his mortgage 
statements, would be plenty sufficient to satisfy any future lenders that happened to ask to 
see his May 2019 bank statement and query the narrative for the transaction. I make no 
order that the letter needs to state a mistake was made by Halifax (which is what Mr B has 
requested), nor do I order that Mr B needs to review the letter before accepting or rejecting 
this decision. 
I order Halifax to pay £150 and issue the letter as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) and order redress as 
I've laid out in the "Putting things right" section above. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman