DRN-2344835
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Pockit Limited in relation to his electronic 
money account.
What happened
Mr P had an electronic money account provided by Pockit. Many of the features of the the 
account were facilitated by a third party, W. On 26 June 2020, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) imposed a number of requirements on W, which effectively meant Pockit 
was unable to use W to facilitate the features of Mr Ps account. This included any ability of 
Mr P to transfer funds or make payments. 
Mr P unfortunately has terminal diagnosis. His health means he has limited income, all of 
which was paid into his Pockit account on the 26th of each month. On 26 June 2020, Mr P 
received his income from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). He was able to pay 
his rent and made an attempted transfer to a bank account he uses for the majority of his 
direct debits and for day-to-day expenses. Whilst the payment of his rent was completed, the 
bank transfer was not. And this, along with the rest of Mr Ps funds, were effectively frozen. 
Mr P has explained that, due to his own health, he might need to attend hospital at any time 
for emergency treatment. In June 2020, Mr P was also caring for his mother who had just 
been discharged from hospital following a major emergency operation. By the time of her 
discharge, Mr Ps father had been admitted to hospital and sadly passed away on 27 June 
2020 as a consequence of Covid-19. 
On 26 June 2020, it seems Mr P had attempted to make a number of payments that were 
not successful. Pockit informed Mr P in a phone call that morning that this was because 
incorrect card details had been entered. During this call, Pockit informed Mr P that there was 
no known issue with his bank transfer and that this was being processed. 
When this transfer was not completed after several hours, Mr P began to chase Pockit for an 
update via email. He was unable to make contact by phone as Pockit was operating reduced 
hours during the pandemic, and only had these lines open on weekdays until 1 pm. 
On Saturday 27 June 2020, Mr P began to communicate with Pockit via social media. He 
was informed it would take up to 2 working days for his attempted transfer to bounce back. 
He was also informed that Pockit had received a high number of emails, but would respond 
to these as quickly as it could. 
It actually seems Pockit had by this point responded to Mr P via email. On 27 June 2020, at 
11.43, Pockit had apparently sent Mr P an email explaining that the FCA action had meant 
accounts were currently inaccessible and would be resolved as soon as possible. It is not 
clear whether Mr P received this email. He continued to chase for a response to his query on 
his unsuccessful transfer, but referred to having received a non-committal, incomplete 
response. 
On 1 July 2020, Mr Ps was again able to access his account and his transferred funds were 
available. 
During the period between 26 June and 1 July 2020, Mr P had also been communicating 
with the FCA, DWP, and the bank he had attempted to transfer funds to. 
Mr P raised a complaint with Pockit about the issues he had experienced. Pockit issued its 
final response on 20 July 2020. It apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused, 
and offered Mr P £25 compensation. Mr P was unsatisfied with this outcome and referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Pockit had not offered a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation, given the circumstances. She recommended Pockit pay Mr P £250 
compensation, as well as refunding a £0.99 fee for the transfer, and a £9.25 late payment 
charge Mr P had incurred in relation to his third party bills. The investigator also 
recommended Pockit provide Mr P with a letter to present to creditors in support of any 
credit file amendments required in relation to the issues experienced.
Mr P accepted the investigators recommendations. Pockit did not. It said that the FCAs 
decision was taken without notice, and it had been unable to implement any contingency 
plans to reduce customer impact. Pockit considered it had attempted to assist customers by 
working with the DWP and it provided regular updates to customers. So, it felt the 
recommendations were unduly harsh and disproportionate to the situation. 
As such, this case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Pockits response to the investigators opinion, along with further comments it has 
since submitted. It is accepted that it was the FCAs actions that meant W was unable to 
facilitate the Pockit accounts and that Pockit would not have been aware these actions were 
to be taken. However, it is not the role of this service to punish a business, so the reasons 
for a situation are not the primary issue here. Pockit provided Mr P with an account and in 
doing so was required to allow him to access his funds. Whether or not as a direct result of 
its own actions, Pockit failed to do this. My role in such a circumstance is to consider the 
impact on the complainant of this situation. 
It should also be noted that I need to consider the actual impact of this situation on Mr P in 
all of the circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr P has explained that he was worried about what may have happened to him if he needed 
private transport to get to hospital for treatment  an understandable concern given his 
health and the general situation of a national pandemic. But this need, thankfully, did not 
arise. So, I am unable to take into account what the hypothetical impact of this would have 
been. That said, I am required to take into account the fact that this would have been 
worrying to Mr P. Had Mr P had access to his funds, he would not have experienced that 
worry. 
Similarly, Mr Ps emotional state at this point in time would no doubt have been significantly 
troubled. On top of his own health concerns, Mr P was caring for his recovering mother, and 
then lost his father in the middle of this episode. Mr P has my full sympathy for all of this. 
However, the distress he would have been experiencing as a result of these issues 
themselves is not something it would be fair or reasonable to hold Pockit responsible for. Pockit is responsible for causing the distress and inconvenience Mr P experienced as a 
result of not being able to access his funds and of not knowing the whereabouts of his 
attempted transfer. And this distress and inconvenience was caused to Mr P at a time when 
he was already experiencing the personal circumstances above. So, I consider the distress 
in relation to his account issues being added to his personal distress meant Mr P 
experienced a higher degree of upset than a customer in different personal circumstance 
might have. 
I do note that the circumstances of the pandemic also likely had an impact on Pockits own 
ability to provide a full service. And that it is also likely that Pockit will have received far more 
communications over the relevant weekend that it would normally expect. So, some delay in 
responding to Mr P was inevitable. I also note that some communications were sent to Mr P 
and it is likely that the information provided in these was to the best of the individuals 
knowledge at the time of that response. For example, it may not have been known on the 
morning of 26 June 2020 that there were issues with W, and so whilst incorrect information 
might have been given in the phone conversation of that morning, it seems likely the call 
handler answered to the best of her knowledge at that time. 
However, taking all of the circumstances of this particular complaint into account, I think 
Pockit needs to do more than pay Mr P £25 compensation. 
Putting things right
Pockit Limited should:
Pay Mr P £250 compensation (including the £25 already offered),
Pay Mr P £0.99 and £9.25 to cover the fees and charges he experienced, and
Provide Mr P with a letter he can present to creditors in support of any credit file 
amendments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Pockit Limited should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman