DRN-3436381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them a package bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) with Halifax in August 
2012. A monthly fee was charged for the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the sale of their URCA 
but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs P disagreed this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
The URCA came with a range of benefits that included travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, home emergency cover, vehicle breakdown cover and a free overdraft facility up 
to £300.
Mr and Mrs P have told us that at the time their URCA was opened they were looking to 
open their first joint account as they were moving into rented accommodation together. They 
have told us they were led to believe the only option available to them for this purpose was 
to have a fee-paying package bank account.
Mr and Mrs P have told us they did not have a need for the majority of the benefits that came 
with the URCA and if they were given an option, they wouldnt have chosen to have it.
Mr and Mrs P have also told us that as they were in rented accommodation the home 
emergency cover wasnt required. Their mobile phones were covered under their contents 
insurance, the travel insurance came with family cover and they have no children and the 
breakdown cover was relatively basic.
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at the time Mr and Mrs P were sold their 
URCA. But I have thought about what Mr and Mrs P have told us alongside the information 
that is available.
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr and Mrs P received a tailored recommendation from 
a Halifax representative to take the URCA, so Halifax only had to provide Mr and Mrs P with 
enough information so they could decide if the account would be suitable for them.
Mr P held a free account before Mr and Mrs P applied for their URCA. So, while I can 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs P opened their URCA in different circumstances for different 
reasons, I think they would likely have been aware a free account option was available to 
them. Whether that be through Halifax or another bank.
In addition to this I think its unlikely Halifax would have told Mr and Mrs P that the only joint 
account option available to them was a fee-paying package bank account. For me to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for this reason I would need to see persuasive evidence that this is 
what Halifax told Mr and Mrs P, which I havent seen.
Mr and Mrs P also registered several phones to the mobile phone insurance provided by the 
URCA, starting when they opened the account in 2012 and used the breakdown cover in 
2013. So, I think they would have thought these benefits that came with the account could 
be useful to them.
In addition to the above Mr and Mrs P have confirmed they travel up to three times each 
year. So, while they wouldnt have benefited from the family part of the travel insurance, they 
would have benefitted from the travel insurance as it covered them individually when they 
travelled.
The URCA like other package bank accounts sold around the same time offered a range of 
benefits and it was often the case that some customers were unable to utilise some of them, 
for example, if they didnt have children or didnt drive. But the accounts came as a package, 
not being able to utilise every benefit available to its full extent does not mean the account 
was mis-sold.
In summary I think Mr and Mrs P would have known a fee-free option was available to them 
for their banking needs and they decided to take the URCA based on their circumstances at 
the time. Its also clear that Mr and Mrs P made use of the benefits that came with the 
URCA. So, I dont think the account was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman