DRN-2313027
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited told her they could 
reduce the premium on her term assurance policy if she hadnt smoked for a year, but later 
said they could only arrange a new policy.
What happened
In 2011, Mrs H took out a level term assurance policy with Legal and General and as she 
smoked at the time, the premium reflected this.
Mrs H says she telephoned Legal and General sometime in 2013 or 2014 to ask what would 
happen to the premiums if she stopped smoking and was told the premiums would reduce. 
Legal and General say they have no records of any telephone contact from Mrs H around 
this time.
Mrs H called Legal and General in February 2020 and told them she hadnt smoked or 
vaped since May 2019. Legal and General told Mrs H they could consider removing Mrs Hs 
smoker status once she hadnt smoked or vaped for a full 12-months. They told Mrs H to call 
back in May, and when she did Legal and General told Mrs H they would have to quote for 
non-smoker terms on a new policy.
Mrs H says she wasnt happy that Legal and General had told her in 2013 or 2014 that her 
premiums would reduce if she was a non-smoker, and then in 2020 decided that non-smoker 
rates could only be applied to a new policy. Mrs H complained to Legal and General in June 
2020 and they provided a response that said they didnt have a record of any contact with 
Mrs H in 2013 or 2014, and they didnt uphold the complaint because the policy she had 
wasnt able to be amended to reflect she was now a non-smoker. However, Legal and 
General did accept that when Mrs H called them in February 2020 an adviser told her they 
would be able to change the existing policy to reflect non-smoker rates, and that this was 
wrong. Legal and General apologised for giving the incorrect information and said they 
would provide feedback to the adviser concerned. They also paid Mrs H £50 to reflect the 
upset and inconvenience this caused.
Mrs H didnt agree with Legal and General and brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at things for Mrs H and felt that the apology and offer made by Legal 
and General was a fair and reasonable one. As Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before I explain my decision, I want to make it clear I have read all the comments sent by 
Mrs H and Legal and General. I will address many of the points Mrs H has raised in her 
correspondence, but I will focus on what I consider to be the key comments in relation to this 
complaint.
Both Mrs H and Legal and General accept the policy taken out in 2011 reflected Mrs H was 
a smoker at the time. However, the key difference between Mrs Hs version of events and 
Legal and Generals version is around the contact Mrs H says she had with them in 2013 or 
2014. Whilst Mrs H says she contacted Legal and General around this time to check what 
would happen to her premiums if she stopped smoking, the records Legal and General have 
provided dont show any contact at this time. Legal and General havent been able to find 
any call recording from this time either.
As neither party has any records of calls made in 2013 or 2014, I cant make a fair and 
reasonable decision they happened. And, as there are no notes or recordings I can refer to, 
there is nothing that persuades me to give more weight to either version of the events. 
However, having reviewed the comments, notes and calls provided I consider it unlikely that 
Mrs H wouldve been in a position to ask Legal and General to reduce the premium until 
2020. I will explain why I think this is the case.
I have been provided with a recording of a telephone call Legal and General had with Mrs H 
on 4 March 2016, but this call relates to the change of name on the policy. Theres no 
mention of the possibility of the policy terms being amended to non-smoker terms, and Legal 
and General said it had received no other calls since the start of the policy. This also 
corresponds with the records Legal and General have provided.
In a call to Legal and General on 21 February 2020, Mrs H says she hadnt smoked 
cigarettes since September 2017, and hadnt vaped since May 2019. I understand that Mrs 
H may well have tried to stop smoking at various times over the preceding years, but it 
seems likely that this was the first time since the policy was taken out that Mrs H asked 
Legal and General to consider her a non-smoker. Legal and General explained that for them 
to consider Mrs H a non-smoker, she would have to declare she had stopped smoking or 
vaping for 12 months. So, from this call, the earliest opportunity for Legal and General to 
consider this would have been May 2020.
Legal and General told Mrs H to call back in May 2020 and if she still wasnt smoking or 
vaping by then, they would consider removing smoker status from the policy. However, 
when she called back in May, Legal and General then told Mrs H they couldnt amend the 
fixed term assurance policy she had, but they could provide quotes for a new policy on non-
smoker rates.
Legal and General shouldnt have told Mrs H in February they could remove the smoker rate 
on the existing policy. The policy is for a fixed sum assured and a fixed term, and the terms 
and conditions dont allow changes to the premium and cover once it is in effect. This meant 
that when Mrs H called Legal and General in May 2020 to amend her smoker status, the 
only option was for Legal and General to quote for a new non-smoker policy. This would 
reflect that Mrs H was older now, and even a non-smoker premium wouldnt be at the level 
Mrs H thought it should be.
Mrs H did receive new quotes from Legal and General in May 2020 and completed a new 
application, but she cancelled this within the cancellation period.
So, although I cant fairly decide Legal and General gave Mrs H incorrect information in 2013 
or 2014, Im satisfied they recognised they provided incorrect information in February 2020. 
Ive seen that after receiving the incorrect information from Legal and General, Mrs H 
followed their suggestion to call back in May. However, Legal and General did cause Mrs H 
some upset and inconvenience when she found out the existing policy couldnt be amended, 
and that she had to take a new policy if she wanted non-smoker rates. Legal and General couldve avoided this if they had given Mrs H the correct information about the existing policy 
in February 2020. 
Mrs H has asked that Legal and General repay all the premiums she has paid on her 
existing policy. I dont consider this would be a fair and reasonable outcome as Mrs H has 
benefitted from the life cover since 2011 and, as Legal and General confirmed to her in the 
calls, they wouldve paid out a claim on her death or terminal illness during this time.
Therefore, I have considered whether the apology and payment of £50 is a reasonable 
remedy for the upset and inconvenience Mrs H experienced when she acted on the incorrect 
information Legal and General gave her in February 2020. Taking into account all the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that this was a reasonable remedy and reflects 
the wasted time Mrs H spent trying to amend the existing policy and applying for a new one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman