DRN-1318400
 
The complaint
Mr D complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) made mistakes when 
he tried to make a payment on his credit card account with them.
What happened
On 27 September 2019 Mr D called John Lewis to make payment of £200 to his credit card 
account. He used a debit card attached to a current account held with another bank to do 
this. The payment failed and wasnt credited to his credit card account. Mr D said he was 
unhappy as his current account, from which hed made the payment, showed the £200 had 
been paid to John Lewis, so he complained.
John Lewis didnt uphold the complaint in respect of the failed payment. In their Final 
Response Letter of 9 October 2019 they told Mr D the £200 payment was rejected by their 
system due to an address mismatch and so it wasnt received by them. They told Mr D he 
needed to contact his bank and request to place a full trace on the payment. In respect of a 
separate issue - relating to difficulties Mr D had when trying to log in to his online account - 
John Lewis credited £40 to Mr Ds account and said this wasnt an admission of liability 
regarding the missing payment. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response from John Lewis. He 
told us hed raised a dispute with his bank but theyd told him John Lewis had the money and 
should refund it.
Our investigator was satisfied the payment Mr D made to John Lewis was rejected and that 
theyd advised Mr D to put a full trace on the payment with his own bank. But she couldnt 
see any evidence that hed done that. She thought, in the absence of a full trace on the 
payment, it was unreasonable to expect John Lewis to locate where the payment was - 
especially as its internal records showed the payment was rejected. So she said she couldnt 
fairly say John Lewis had done anything wrong in respect of this. She was also satisfied the 
£40 compensation John Lewis paid to Mr D was no admission of liability regarding this 
missing payment  but related to a separate online access issues. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint
Mr D didnt agree, he told us the mistake with the address was caused by John Lewiss 
records. The investigator obtained further evidence about this from John Lewis.  The screen 
shots they sent satisfied her that, although their systems were set up in two ways, the data 
held in them both was the same. So she didnt change her view. Mr D remained unhappy 
and the case has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr D feels our investigator 
hasnt properly investigated his complaint. I want to assure him Ive looked at everything afresh before reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can 
fairly and reasonably uphold. Ill explain why.
I understand the £200 thats at the heart of this complaint has now been returned to Mr D but 
I can sympathise with the situation he found himself in. For some time no-ones been able to 
tell him where the £200 payment is and I can appreciate that must be frustrating. But I dont 
think thats due to anything John Lewis have done wrong here.
The records John Lewis have sent to us are clear that the payment Mr D hoped to make on 
27 September 2019 was declined due to an address mismatch. The screenshots sent to us 
later in the investigation confirm John Lewis had the correct address for Mr D and that its 
the same on both of their system set ups. John Lewis had no control over the address 
details other organisations hold for Mr D. And I dont think they couldve done any more 
given that Mr D didnt ask his own bank to put a full trace on the payment. So for those 
reasons I dont require John Lewis to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman