DRN-2194149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank plc (Clydesdale) treated them unfairly when it 
refused to allow them to make a credit card payment to another company in cash.
What happened
Mr H went into a Clydesdale Branch and asked to pay his wifes credit card bill to another 
credit card company in cash (using funds hed just withdrawn from their Clydesdale joint 
account). Clydesdales cashier told Mr H hed have to pay the credit card bill through his 
account. He wasnt happy about that and branch staff told Mr H it was head office policy. 
Mr H says he asked to see the policy and Clydesdale refused to give it to him.  
Mr and Mrs H complained to Clydesdale. It said it had introduced a new policy, which was 
that customers had to pay funds into their account and the bank would process bill payments 
to other companies directly from there. Clydesdale said its approach provides a clear audit 
trail in the event of a dispute about payments not being received and covers the 
bank against money laundering risks. Clydesdale said it couldnt give Mr and Mrs H a copy 
of its internal policy but confirmed the right approach had been followed. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think 
Clydesdale had acted unfairly. He said that even if Mr and Mrs H didnt have a bank account 
(which isnt the case) there would have been other options available to them to pay their 
credit card bills. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and amongst other things commented that Mr H was still able to 
make his own credit card payments in cash. Our investigator responded that Clydesdales 
change in policy related to bill payments to other companies (which didnt apply in Mr Hs 
case). Mr and Mrs H still didnt agree and feel that Clydesdale is taking customers rights 
away. As they havent accepted the investigators assessment, the matters been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about Clydesdales change in policy. 
But, having carefully considered their complaint and the supporting comments theyve made, 
Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Clydesdale has made a commercial decision to only allow bill payments to other companies 
from a customers account rather than in cash. Thats a decision it's entitled to make. But I've 
gone on to think about whether that decision was fair in these particular circumstances and 
about the impact it had on Mr and Mrs H.
Clydesdale says that part of the reason for the change in approach is to provide a clear audit 
trail when payments are made to other companies and to safeguard against money 
laundering risks. These days there are increasing responsibilities on financial businesses to 
comply with legislation  in particular anti-money laundering regulations. So, against that 
backdrop, I didnt find it unreasonable that Clydesdale would want to ensure theres an audit 
trail between accounts when cash is paid in. And, as Clydesdale also pointed out, the 
process is designed to make it easier to investigate payment disputes. Again, I think its 
response in that context seemed reasonable.  
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs H were treated unfairly by Clydesdales change in 
approach. And I dont think they were. Clydesdale told Mr and Mrs H that as Mrs Hs credit 
card bill was to another credit card provider (unlike Mr Hs) the new approach would 
apply. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Clydesdale doesnt appear to have treated 
Mr and Mrs H any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And, as Mr and 
Mrs H have a Clydesdale account, my understanding is that they can make a bill payment 
directly from that account without having to withdraw cash first. I fully appreciate that might 
not be their preference though and it might explain why they feel their rights are being taken 
away.  
Mr and Mrs H think Clydesdale should have told customers about this change in policy. 
Whereas Clydesdales approach to communicating the change is to tell customers who are 
already in a branch that theyre no longer able to make bill payments to other companies in 
cash. I think it might have been better if Clydesdale had said something upfront about the 
changes (assuming there was enough time to do so) so customers like Mr and Mrs H - who 
are used to paying bills in this way - could have been better prepared.
But I dont think Clydesdale was wrong not to share a copy of its internal policy. As I said 
earlier, the change in policy seems to have been driven to some extent by Clydesdales 
responsibilities to comply with legislation - particularly anti-money laundering regulations, so 
is likely to be considered sensitive information. Also, businesses regularly make small 
changes to their internal processes and policies, and I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect every process change to be distributed to customers. 
For the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think Clydesdale Bank plc did anything wrong.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman