DRN-2074742
The complaint
Mr P complains AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) didnt accept a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy and voided the policy from its last renewal date.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a car accident in October 2019. He reported this to AXA the same day.
 
Upon inspection, AXA discovered the car had been modified from the manufacturers original 
specification. In particular, the car had lowered suspension and the tyres fitted to vehicle 
were stretched  which meant tyres slightly smaller than the wheels had been fitted. The tyre 
tread was also below the legal minimum requirement. 
AXA said Mr P hadnt declared the modifications when he took out his policy, or when it was 
later renewed. And it felt the car wasnt roadworthy because the tyre tread was below the 
legal minimum requirement  so it decided to cancel Mr Ps policy and said it wouldnt be 
paying Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P said he didnt know about the modifications when he bought the car and since he didnt 
know about them, he couldnt have told AXA about them when he took out his policy. He 
was unhappy that AXA had avoided his policy and refused to pay his claim. He was also 
unhappy with the amount of time AXA had taken to look into things, so he referred his 
complaint to our service.
An Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. He said, in summary, AXA had looked into the 
claim fairly  in a reasonable timeframe  and had decided not pay the claim and also cancel 
Mr Ps policy fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr P didnt agree with the Investigators assessment. So the complaints been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P bought his policy, and when he later renewed it, he had a responsibility under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. For an insurer to take any action or not 
honour a claim, it needs to show that Mr P didnt do this and that he made whats called a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
  
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding if a consumer has failed to 
take reasonable care and one these is what questions the consumer was asked.
Mr P bought his policy online. The question he was asked was:
Has your car been modified? Examples include changes to the bodywork, wheels, 
suspension, brakes and any cosmetic or performance changes.
Im satisfied, since this question specifies changes to the wheels and suspension would 
count as modifications for the purposes of this question, the question was clear and specific 
for Mr P to have known what he was being asked.
Mr P answered no to this question. AXA then sent Mr P his policy documents, including a 
statement of fact which said:
Please read the following information carefully. Please advise us immediately should any 
of the information be incorrect or missing. If we become aware of any changes to the 
information stated in this Statement of Insurance then we will update your policy and advise 
you of any change to your premium or to the terms that the insurer requires and send you a 
new Statement of Insurance. Failure to disclose correct and complete information to the best 
of your knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not 
being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being null & void and treated as if it never 
existed.
Again, the statement of fact showed Mr P had answered no to the question about 
modifications to his car. 
When Mr Ps policy renewed he entered into a new contract with AXA. And again, he had an 
obligation to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Ive seen copies of the 
statement of fact for 2019 when the policy renewed. In it, the car is listed as not having had 
any modifications. 
Mr P says he answered no to this question because he didnt know about the modifications 
when he bought the car and hes made no modifications to the car himself. AXA says it 
thinks Mr Ps misrepresentation about the modifications was deliberate. 
For a misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, it would need have been made by 
someone who knew the information wasnt accurate or didnt care whether it was. And they 
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
didnt care whether it was. So Ive considered the evidence both parties have provided about 
this. 
AXA has provided evidence which shows that Mr Ps previous car was modified. Its provided 
details of an online advert showing Mr Ps previous car was advertised as having been 
remapped. Remapping involves adjusting the microchip in a cars Electronic Control Unit 
(ECU) in order to overwrite the manufacturers factory settings. Mr Ps telephone number is 
included in this advert. 
AXA has also provided an advert for the car which is the subject of this complaint which 
specifically lists the modifications that werent declared. Mr P says he didnt see this 
particular advert for the car. We couldnt get a full copy of the advert Mr P says he saw but I 
think its likely that both adverts, posted online by the dealer, described the car in similar 
terms.
As the car was advertised with the modifications specified, and it seems Mr P had previously 
owned a car which it seems he was aware was also modified, Im not persuaded Mr P didnt 
know about the modifications to the car which is the subject of this complaint. So Im 
satisfied the evidence provided by AXA goes far enough to show the misrepresentation was 
likely to have been deliberate. To show that its a qualifying misrepresentation, AXA needs to show it would either not have 
offered the policy at all if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. Or that it wouldve offered 
cover but on different terms. AXAs provided evidence of its underwriting criteria which 
shows that it would not have offered Mr P cover at all if itd known the cars suspension had 
been modified. So Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
As AXA has avoided Mr Ps policy, that means the position is now as though Mr P was never 
insured. Which means at the time of the accident, in effect, there was no policy in place. So 
AXA is entitled to refuse to pay Mr Ps claim. So, for the reasons explained, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to declare Mr Ps policy void from the latest renewal date.
Mr Ps also unhappy with how long it took for AXA to investigate the claim. Mr P reported the 
accident and started his claim on 14 October 2019. AXA wrote to him on 28 November 2019 
to say it wouldnt be paying the claim. So while I can understand why Mr P was keen for 
matters to be resolved, Im satisfied AXA were making the usual enquiries in relation to Mr 
Ps claim. And that it did so without undue delay.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman