DRN-3767243
The complaint
The estate of Mr J has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
failed to settle the proceeds of his annuity contract into Trust as hed instructed, 
which has led to an inheritance tax liability.
What happened
Mr J held a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) with Aviva. 
In 2009 Mr J enquired with Aviva how he could place his policy into trust. It replied 
with a letter dated 8 September 2009 setting out the required documentation Mr J 
would need to supply and the steps hed need to take to action his request. 
Aviva has stated it received no response to this letter.
In 2012 Mr J contacted Aviva again with a letter requesting his policys benefits be 
placed into his Will trust. Aviva acknowledged receipt of his request but again 
requested further documentation before it could proceed. Aviva has said it never 
received a response to this letter either. 
Mr J sadly passed away on 17 September 2016. 
Mr Js estate submitted a death benefit claim under the policy and Aviva settled the 
policy with a value of around £26,000. The funds were paid to his wifes bank 
account in her capacity as his spouse and one of the executors for the estate. 
Mrs J then also sadly passed away on 1 August 2019.
The executors for Mr Js estate raised a complaint with Aviva because while they 
were in process of settling Mrs Js estate an inheritance tax liability arose due to the 
funds that were paid out from Mr Js policy with Aviva. 
The executors have said that Aviva shouldnt have paid the funds directly to Mrs J as 
Mr J had created a Wills trust which it had been notified about previously. 
Aviva has said that while Mr J informed it of his intention regarding placing the policy 
benefits in trust, it had requested additional documentation in order to action this, 
which it never received. It also said that as the Will trust didnt specifically name this 
policy it couldnt pay the proceeds to the trust. 
The executors were unhappy with this answer and brought the complaint to our 
service to consider. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. They were of the view that as Mr J 
didnt respond to the letters from Aviva or carry out the necessary actions Aviva 
required in order to place the policy into the Will trust Aviva had no obligation to pay 
the policy proceeds into the trust. They also concluded that Aviva had no discretion 
in how the RAC was settled.
The executors disagreed with the investigators findings and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
I must make my decision by considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And, in so doing, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint cant be upheld.
I have considered whether Aviva should have paid the death benefit proceeds of 
Mr Js policy to his Wills trust.
It is clear that Mr J had wanted to protect his estate from potential tax charges and 
had wanted to place the benefits of his policy into trust. However, I cant ignore that 
on two separate occasions when Aviva had made it clear that there were further 
actions Mr J had to take in order to facilitate this h didnt respond to either letter. It 
was made clear to Mr J at both times that he needed to do more before the policy 
could be placed in the trust, but he didnt take any action. And while Aviva has stated 
its response in 2012 to Mr J should have contained more detail regarding the options 
and information around the trust, ultimately I must consider that Mr J never took any 
action following its response, even though it was clear he needed to do more before 
his request would be fulfilled.
It therefore follows that as Mr J failed to take the required action to finalise setting up 
the trust details correctly with Aviva, I cant conclude that it acted incorrectly by 
paying the death benefits to Mrs J in her capacity as executor for Mr Js estate.
The executors have argued that as Mr J had set up a Wills trust and Aviva were 
informed of this before the death benefit was finalised, it should have settled the 
proceeds to the trust. However, a trust is a legal instrument, and the rules 
surrounding how they operate are very strict. Before paying the benefits from a 
policy into a trust any business must satisfy itself that the proceeds can be paid into 
the trust and that all obligations and rules surrounding payments into the trust are 
complied with. 
Aviva has said that while it acknowledges Mr J set up a Will trust, the benefits listed 
in the trust documentation did not specifically include or refer to this policy and so it 
was unable to pay the benefits to the trust. I dont think this is unreasonable as Aviva 
could have been seen as aiding Mrs J in tax avoidance had it incorrectly paid the 
benefits into the trust.
I appreciate that Aviva did incorrectly imply on two occasions to Mrs J that the policy 
fell under a discretionary trust, and it could pay the proceeds using its discretionary powers. But this was later corrected with Mrs J and she was made aware shed 
received the proceeds from the policy in her capacity as executor. 
Overall, therefore I am satisfied that having reviewed the evidence Aviva did fully 
consider the request from Mr Js estate to pay the benefits into the Wills trust, but it 
found that it could not do so due to its requirements not being met by Mr J when he 
was alive.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman