DRN-3138181
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC joined her account to another persons account by 
mistake. Shes also unhappy with the length of time it took to get the problem resolved.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs M discovered that her Lloyds bank account had been linked to an 
account belonging to one of her relatives. She says she visited her local branch in January 
2020 and asked them to fix it. She says she was told theyd look into it within five working 
days - but that she didnt receive any further contact from Lloyds and the problem wasnt 
resolved. 
Mrs M says she was very worried that money might be taken from her account, especially as 
the relationship with her relative had broken down. Shes told us that her doctor had warned 
her to avoid stressful situations during her pregnancy, as it increased her blood pressure. 
Her baby was born in March 2020, two months prematurely. 
Mrs M has told us that she went back to her local branch in May 2020. She says she had to 
explain things again because they had no record of her previous visit. As the problem hadnt 
been resolved, Mrs M visited the branch in August 2020. During that visit, Lloyds staff 
removed the link to her relatives account.
After looking into Mrs Ms complaint, Lloyds said they had no record of her visiting the 
branch until August 2020. But they apologised for their error and offered to pay her £500 
compensation. Mrs M didnt think this was enough to compensate her for what had 
happened. 
Our investigator agreed that Lloyds had let Mrs M down by linking her account to her 
relatives. She thought the situation could have been avoided - and that it should have been 
resolved much sooner. But she thought £500 was fair and reasonable for the stress and 
worry the situation had caused Mrs M. 
Mrs M didnt think this was a fair outcome. She said that, when she first noticed the problem 
on her account, she had no idea who the linked account belonged to  and that shed only 
realised who it was when she spoke to her relative about it. She said she feels Lloyds took 
this matter less seriously because the linked account belonged to a member of her family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have accepted that they made an error in linking the two accounts, so theres no 
need for me to look into that. Instead Ill focus on whether theyve done enough to put things 
right.
Lloyds have told us that they have no record of Mrs M complaining to them about this 
problem until her visit to the branch on 27 August 2020. Theyve provided us with a copy of 
their records showing that, within one day, theyd resolved the problem, called Mrs M to 
apologise, and offered her compensation. 
Both parties agree that the two accounts were mistakenly linked in December 2019. Mrs M 
says she told Lloyds about this in January 2020 and again in May 2020. Shes told us that, 
when it was eventually resolved in August 2020, this was the third time shed raised it. 
Although they have no record of Mrs M having visited the branch on the earlier occasions, I 
think it most likely that she did tell Lloyds about the problem. So, I think this situation went on 
for longer than it should have done. Ive thought about the impact this situation had on Mrs 
M. 
Mrs M has told us that, until the problem was resolved, both she and her relative could see 
each others income and expenses - or make payments from each others accounts. 
Fortunately, no money was taken from Mrs Ms account as a result of this error. But I can 
appreciate that this situation must have been very distressing for her. And I can see that 
shed have felt this all the more acutely after being advised by her doctor to avoid stress 
during her pregnancy. 
Mrs M realises that this situation didnt directly cause her baby to be born prematurely. But 
shes told us that she found it more difficult to follow her doctors advice because she was 
worrying about her relative being able to see her personal finances. Shes told us that her 
baby stayed in hospital from March until May 2020 - so her baby was her main priority during 
this period. I can see that this had an impact on the time it took to get the situation resolved. 
Having given careful thought to what Mrs M has told us, I do think Lloyds error caused her 
considerable worry. And that, due to her circumstances at the time, this had a significant 
impact on her over a period of several months. But I think Lloyds offer of £500 
compensation recognises this. Im satisfied that their offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to direct them to do anything more. 
My final decision
Lloyds have already made an offer to pay Mrs M £500 compensation to settle this complaint. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs M £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman