DRN-2722261
The complaint
Mr C says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unreasonably refused his claim for fracture 
cover benefit.     
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 12 March 2021.  
The background to the complaint was set out in detail to both parties in that provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat it again here. 
In summary, I concluded that whilst I agreed a payment should be made to Mr C for the 
upset he had been caused, I disagreed that a further £2,000 lump sum was payable for a 
claim of a knee fracture, as it was excluded under Mr Cs policy wording.    
My findings are set out in full in italics below.
  
Having looked carefully at the information from both parties, I dont believe a further claim 
payment is warranted though I do agree compensation should be awarded for the upset 
caused to Mr C. 
Fracture cover benefit is an add-on feature of Mr Cs life assurance policy. Aviva did not sell 
this policy or the additional benefit to Mr C directly. That sale and the advice regarding the 
policy was provided by a third party adviser. So I cannot hold Aviva liable for what may or 
may not have been said at the time of the advice.  
Instead, I have looked at the policy literature and the terms and conditions as they 
specifically relate to fracture cover. The leaflet given to prospective policyholders sets out a 
clear summary of what the benefit comprises, noting:
The cover allows one claim per year for the first fracture that happens in the policy 
year. If more than one fracture happens at the same time well pay for one of these, 
whichever is the higher amount.
I believe this wording, as well as the policy terms and conditions issued to Mr C are clear 
that only one claim is payable for a fracture occurring in any policy year (which in Mr Ms 
case runs from 2 March to 1 March). If more than one occurs and amounts to a valid claim, 
Aviva will pay the greater value.   
Mr C says he believes a higher claim payment of £6,000 ought to have been paid to him as 
this is the set value for a knee fracture in the policy terms.  
Firstly I should say - notwithstanding the contested issue about motorcycle sport which I will 
address later- that I believe Aviva was correct in determining that Mr C actually suffered from 
fractures in both his knee and leg. 
The medical evidence supports that, as both the discharge documentation of May 2020 and 
the medical letter from the Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon of July 2020 confirm that Mr C 
suffered from a proximal fibula head fracture on both sides. Though proximate to the knee, a 
fibular head fracture is located at the very top of the fibula  a lower leg bone. 
However, the medical evidence also says that Mr C sustained a tibial plateau fracture in his 
right knee. The discharge paperwork calls the fracture a right segond fracture. However, 
they are one and the same. A segond fracture is a fracture of the knee that involves the 
lateral aspect of the tibial plateau. It is a type of avulsion fracture where separation of soft 
tissue from bone occurs. 
As Mr Cs circumstances show he has suffered a fracture of the knee, it is for Aviva to 
reasonably establish if the exclusion applies and I believe it has done so.  
Mr Cs policy wording sets out exclusions of certain fractures based on severity. It says we 
wont cover you for a fracture which is classed as fatigue, stress, hairline, chip, avulsion or 
microfracture.
Therefore, I do not agree that a greater value of £6,000 (specifically a further £2,000) is 
payable to Mr C. The evidence clearly demonstrates that the additional fracture to his right 
knee was an avulsion fracture and that is expressly excluded under the policy wording.  
It follows that I am not required to go further and consider whether the additional policy 
wording relating to motor cycle sport applies to Mr C in respect of a knee fracture claim as 
Ive already concluded the claim is not payable based on the exclusion for certain types of 
fracture.  
However, in my view, I believe it is relevant to consider the point in relation to the distress 
caused to Mr C and the general claims handling of Aviva. I say that because for the lower 
leg fracture it does not accept that Mr C could have satisfied the policy wording as there is a 
further exclusion for certain activities. It says:
We wont cover a fracture that happens when taking part in any of the following: 
mountain biking or BMX; boxing; cage fighting or martial arts; rugby or Gaelic 
football; horse riding; or motor cycle sport.  
Aviva takes the view that green laning is a form of recreational motorsport, but I disagree 
with that. The association Aviva refers to also explains that the term means to use 
unsurfaced public roads and vehicular rights of way in recreational circumstances. The 
wording above does not merely exclude the use of a motorcycle, it excludes motorcycle 
sport.  
I have seen no clear evidence that Mr C was undertaking sport at the time of his accident. 
That he was legally operating his motorbike on a lane as well as previously on a tarmacked 
road makes inferences beyond the requirement of the exclusion above. Aviva says that 
sport can extend to numerous situations beyond competitive activity. While I dont dispute 
that, I disagree with the conclusion that all recreational use of a motorcycle must be inferred 
to be sport. 
That Mr C takes part in enduro motorcycle events isnt relevant to the circumstances of this 
claim. Though Aviva has suggested that use of the motorcycle outside of these events is 
practice, i.e. recreational activity under the field of sport, I disagree. Thats because for other 
activities such as horse riding and mountain biking, they are expressly excluded in any 
circumstances. That the wording for motorcycle use specifically includes sport must do so to 
differentiate it from the use of motorcycles in other circumstances.  The submissions from Aviva accord with that view, because it has submitted that if Mr C had 
suffered his accident on a tarmacked surface, any claim would be covered. As it stands, the 
wording requires the policyholder to be undertaking the activity of motorcycle sport, and in 
the circumstances I do not believe Mr C was doing so.  
Though it was free to do so, paying the claim to Mr C on a discretionary basis has added an 
additional layer of confusion for Mr C where he repeatedly asked Aviva to confirm its 
conclusions in respect of the policy exclusion in writing. He also explained to Aviva how he 
felt unduly pressured into accepting an ex-gratia claim payment and that it failed to 
communicate with him reasonably during a time where he had lost his income and he and 
his family had particular difficulties.  
Mr C said he was unhappy that the additional claim could not be paid, as his treating 
consultants had confirmed that he has injured his knee. He went on to confirm he had no 
other evidence to submit. 
Aviva said it was satisfied with the conclusions I had reached, and it had nothing else it 
wanted to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having noted the additional comments from Mr C, I confirm that my findings as set out above 
remain unchanged.  
I recognise that Mr C has been told he has injured his knee by his Consultant Orthopaedic 
Surgeon. In my findings I actually set out expressly that Aviva was correct in determining 
that Mr C actually suffered from fractures in both his knee and leg.. 
I dont dispute Mr C has a knee injury, and I also went on to assess the medical evidence 
confirming Mr C sustained a tibial plateau fracture (a segond fracture) in his right knee.   
However, the fracture Mr C has suffered is a type of avulsion fracture. Mr Cs policy wording 
sets out exclusions of certain fractures and they are given in a specified list. Avulsion 
fractures are one such fracture on that list. Aviva therefore correctly applied the policy 
exclusion and no further payment is due.  
If Mr C should receive additional evidence of the type of fracture he sustained that differs to 
what has been provided to date, he is free to submit that to Aviva in the first instance. 
Since neither party has made any submission or comment on the proposal for the distress 
payment of £500, my findings on that also remain unchanged and I consider appropriate 
compensation ought to be awarded as follows.  
Putting things right
Taking everything in the round, I believe that the proposal of £500 for the distress caused to 
Mr C is appropriate. It is within the moderate banding for awards that this service would 
make where a business has caused upset by administrative failings. I think Avivas 
processes were unduly confusing for Mr C and whilst it was for Aviva to provide an 
explanation to its policyholders if an exclusion applied, it could have communicated more 
effectively with Mr and Mrs C and sent them written correspondence where they had made 
fair requests for it to do so.    My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must make a payment of £500 to 
Mr C for the upset and inconvenience he was caused by its claim handling process. I do not 
make any other award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman