DRN-2636542
The complaint
This complaint is about a property Mr S owns, subject to a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. The property is above commercial premises, and he believes HSBC should never have 
lent him the money to buy it. To put things right, Mr S wants HSBC to buy the property back 
and cover all of his costs.
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and 
then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr S bought the property in 2019. He tried to borrow more money in 2020 but HSBC refused 
after having the property re-valued. It said the property wasnt acceptable security due to 
being above commercial premises.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive noted what Mr S said in his email of 9 December 2020 about what the regulators 
handbook says about a business obligations when offering an investment product. However, 
mortgages arent investment products, so the extracts hes pointed to arent relevant to his 
complaint.
As a starting position, lenders arent experts in property, so when deciding whether a 
property is acceptable security for a mortgage loan, they seek the professional opinion of 
someone who is expert. They have a duty to appoint someone who is suitably-qualified to 
give that opinion; and provided they do that, lenders can rely on the opinion they receive. 
Lenders typically meet that duty by instructing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) to assess a property and value it for mortgage purposes. 
Each lender has its own high-level appetite for what types of property it will lend on, and 
issues guidance for RICS members to use when carrying out valuation instructions. Such 
guidance is subject to change from time to time, at the lenders discretion; its also 
commercially sensitive. Its up to each lender to use its commercial judgement on what is or 
isnt acceptable property for a mortgage; its not in my remit to interfere with that judgement 
or how the guidance should be phrased.
Applying the above principles to Mr S individual circumstances, HSBC twice obtained expert 
opinions on his property; the first in early 2019 when he applied for the mortgage to buy it 
and the second in early 2020 when he applied to borrow more money. On both occasions, 
HSBC met its duty to appoint a suitably-qualified person to value the property. That means 
that, on both occasions, HSBC was entitled to rely on the valuation it received when it made 
its lending decision. 
The surveyor who valued the property in 2019 deemed it acceptable security for HSBC to 
lend on; the surveyor who valued it in 2020 deemed it unacceptable. The primary reason for 
this is that between the two valuations, HSBC had issued new acceptable property 
guidance. One of the changes in the updated guidance  the one that is relevant to Mr S 
situation - was in relation to how properties above commercial premises should be 
assessed. 
Ive explained already that the guidance is commercially sensitive, so I wont be reproducing 
here any of the content of either version. But Ive looked at what both versions say, and Ive 
looked at what both valuations say. 
My role doesnt extend to questioning the content of the valuations, as they werent carried 
out by HSBC. They were the professional opinions of the surveyors, over whom I have no 
jurisdiction. But in general terms Im satisfied that in each case, the valuation given was a 
fair reflection of the guidance that applied at the relevant time. More specifically, Im satisfied 
that in each case, the lending decision HSBC made was fair and reasonable, given what the 
valuation said.
Mr S says HSBC had a duty to warn him of the risk associated with buying a property above 
commercial premises, given that few lenders will provide a mortgage on it (whether to him or 
to anyone who might wish to buy it from him). I appreciate how upset Mr S is, but Im afraid 
thats not the case. It wasnt HSBCs role to advise Mr S on what property to buy, or the risk 
associated with particular types of property. It was up to Mr S himself to do his own due 
diligence on the property he was proposing to buy to make sure it met all of his needs.
Mr S are in an unenviable situation, and Im not at all unsympathetic towards him and his 
family. But I can only find in his favour if Im satisfied hes in this position because of 
something HSBC did that it shouldnt have done, or failed to do something it should have 
done. For all of the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that to be the case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman