DRN-4505732
The complaint
Mr S complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services PLC failed to credit a £50 
payment he had made to his credit card account.
What happened
In February 2023 Mr Ss wife made a payment of £50 to M&S at a nearby branch of their 
bank. However when he received his next monthly statement, the payment was not on it and 
he subsequently received a letter from M&S advising no payment had been made and that a 
£12 charge had been added to his account. Mr Ss wife checked with their bank that the 
payment had been made and this was confirmed. Mr S then called M&S and asked to speak 
to the signatory of the letter, but the call ended before he was able to be transferred. He 
spoke to M&S several times after this but each time he was told that M&S could only 
investigate the matter if he provided the account number and sort code of the bank from 
where he made the payment. Mr S said that for security reasons he would not do this.
M&S reiterated in correspondence that it could not investigate the matter without the said 
account number and sort code. It refunded the £12 charge and credited £25 to his account 
for his poor experience during phone calls.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator didnt think that M&S  
should pay further compensation, as though Mr S was within his right to refuse to provide his 
account details, this is hindering its investigation into the missing payment.
Mr S did not agree, and enquired why we could not request M&S Bank to confirm that the 
payment in February by his Bank on his behalf has been received to conclude this matter.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I fully understand Mr Ss frustration. His wife made a payment in the branch of 
their bank to M&S and the bank has confirmed that the payment has gone through. Yet the 
payment has still not appeared on his account with M&S.
I also understand that it would be upsetting to receive a letter saying he hadn't paid, with a 
£12 penalty charge. And I recognise his frustration at having to make several telephone calls 
to M&S to try to resolve the matter.
However it appears that the £50 payment did not reach Mr Ss account. His bank is clearly 
able to say is it left his account but only M&S can carry out an investigation from its end. It 
appears likely that the £50 is being held in a suspense account. I can't speculate on the 
reasons for this but the only way in which M&S can carry out a proper investigation is by 
Mr S supplying his bank account number and sort code. Unfortunately he has consistently 
refused to supply this because he has security concerns.
I understand those concerns but as M&S clearly will be receiving a great number of 
payments every day, I don't think it would be possible for it to trace the payment any other 
way. It has supplied Mr S with the details of its privacy notice, which explains how it uses 
personal data. And it is bound by the Data Protection Act to keep such information 
confidential. 
As matters stand however, I think M&S has dealt with Mr Ss complaint appropriately by 
refunding the £12 letter charge and its payment of £25 compensation.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman