DRN-2158817
The complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card 
that he took out in 1999, from Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr S has already been offered some 
money back, for part of the commission Barclays got from the sale. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in August 2019, comprehensively setting 
out why I thought the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both 
parties to provide any further submissions or information to me within one month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems neither party wants to send in any new information or arguments. So theres no 
reason for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about the mis-sale element. And dont require Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay any compensation. Barclays has already offered some money back, for part 
of the commission Barclays got from the sale and I think this is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020. 
copy  provisional decision
Ive looked at all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our adjudicator. Because of this, Im going to 
issue a provisional decision. 
Ill look at any more comments or evidence I get about this complaint by 6 September 2020. But 
unless these change my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. So the 
consumer cant be identified, Ill call him Mr S.
Complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card that he took 
out in 1999, from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Background
Mr S has already been offered some money back, for part of the commission Barclays got from the 
sale. Our adjudicator then looked at the mis-sale element of the case and said that part of the 
complaint should be upheld also. Barclays disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I am not intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him.
I can see Mr S filled out a postal application form. Whilst I dont doubt he genuinely now feels he was 
mis-sold the policy, the application form gave what appears to me to be an obvious and clear choice 
to either have, or not have, this type cover with his new card. Mr S ticked the relevant box to add the 
PPI policy and he signed the form too. There was an option to tick no in relation to the PPI which 
was left blank. So I think its clear enough that Mr S consented to the policy at the time.
Because this was a postal application I think its fair to assume Mr S would have made his way 
through the application form in his own time and without any intervention from Barclays. This means it 
wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt therefore need to make sure the policy was suitable for 
Mr S. The decision about buying the cover and whether it was right for him was for Mr S to make. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because of a pre-existing medical 
condition he says he had. The adjudicator thought that claiming for this condition might be 
problematic, due to the policy rules about sickness absence from work.
I can understand why they thought this, but Ive given consideration to the type of medical issue Mr S 
says he had. Whilst I certainly wouldnt want to suggest this condition wasnt a concern for him, the 
issue here is whether it is one that would have changed what Mr S went on to do. For example, would 
he have still bought the PPI had he known his pre-existing condition might not be covered?
The application leaflet did contain some of the policy rules, but I accept these could have been set out 
in a better or more prominent way. However, the sickness protection on the PPI policy didnt actually 
kick in until after 14 days of sickness had elapsed. So Mr S would probably have needed to think he 
was at risk of taking that length of time off work with this particular pre-existing condition, for it to 
become something that would have changed his mind about buying the cover. And Im afraid I dont 
think its very likely that he would have thought that. I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was 
the case, such as him previously having to take extended time off work with that condition, or other 
medical evidence which might show it was recurring issue. Obviously if this is sent to me, Ill consider 
it very carefully ahead of making a final decision.Mr S was otherwise eligible for the cover which included unemployment protection and different (not 
pre-existing) medical conditions. He wasnt caught by any of the other main exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy. I also note the PPI was set out regularly in the monthly statements he 
would have received over many years. I think if he hadnt wanted the PPI, he would have been 
prompted at some stage to ask why he was being charged.
Looking at the work he did, I agree Mr S may have had some sickness protection already. But this 
doesnt necessarily mean the cover wasnt of value to him. The PPI would have paid out 10% of his 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This would have been in 
addition to any other means he had at that time. He also mentions having life insurance, but this 
covers a different eventuality to the PPI.
So I think this policy was of use and thats probably why he agreed to buy it at the time. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr S but Im not currently intending to uphold his complaint about the mis-sale.
My provisional decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy was mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC wont have to pay 
anything more. My understanding is that it has already offered him compensation for the commission 
element I mentioned at the start of this decision. If either party wishes to submit more evidence Ill 
look at it provided I see it by 6 September 2020.
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman