DRN-3957319
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that esure Services Limited (esure) hid an increase at renewal of 
their car insurance policy and made it difficult to cancel the policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a motor insurance policy with esure.
Their policy was due to renew in October 2022. esure sent them a letter saying that it would 
contact them by email with their renewal invitation.
The renewal email said Mr and Mrs Ss policy would increase from £161.20 to £202.07. Mr 
and Mrs S were unhappy about the amount of this increase and said esure wasnt being 
transparent.
They wanted to cancel the policy and contacted esure. Mr and Mrs S said they werent able 
to cancel the policy online or through esures chat system. They said they spent a long time 
trying to get through to esure and asked for £50 compensation for the inconvenience. 
esure said the reason it asked customers to call to cancel was so it could check that Mr and 
Mrs S were getting a like-for-like quote. It listened to the cancellation call and said Mr and 
Mrs S were on hold for seven minutes before speaking to an operator who could cancel the 
policy.
esure said it was being transparent with its renewal pricing because the previous years price 
was on the first page of the renewal invitation, along with the new years price.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. They said esure 
had been clear about the price change at renewal and the evidence they had showed Mr 
and Mrs S had been on hold for seven minutes. They didnt think esure had acted 
unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view. They asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they think esure tried to hide a premium increase of about 25% when it 
offered them renewal. I can see that esures renewal document clearly states both last years 
and next years premiums. There is no ambiguity.
I can see a note in the file that says esures quote may have been received into Mr Ss spam 
folder. But I cant say thats the fault of esure. It also pointed out that the renewal details 
were available online.
Mr and Mrs S also say they spent about 2.5 hours on hold trying to get through to esure to 
cancel the policy. I can see that their evidence to this service says they dialled various 
numbers over the course of three days. It seems to me that, perhaps, they tried repeatedly 
but didnt stay on the calls for long enough. Or perhaps they tried an incorrect number. But 
Ive looked at esures renewal invitation and I think its clear what they needed to do. 
esure has looked into the cancellation call and said Mr and Mrs S were on hold for seven 
minutes, which I dont think is excessive. I havent seen any further evidence about the 
number of calls or time spent, so in the absence of this, I dont think esure has acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S also mention that esure made it extremely difficult to cancel their policy, which 
they say is contrary to the regulators rules. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. But we can look 
at the way a business operates and judge whether the way it works is fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered esures reason for asking customers to ring it to cancel their policy and I 
think its reasonable. Although Mr and Mrs S say it took a long time over a few days and 
several phonecalls to cancel their policy, the evidence I have shows that their cancellation 
was handled relatively quickly by esure, so Im not going to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman