DRN-4044928
The complaint
Miss F complains that despite paying fees to Prosperis Limited each year, it failed to look 
after her pension or provide the level of service expected and she saw little growth in her 
pension.
What happened
Miss F had been a member of a former employers pension scheme and Prosperis had been 
advisers to that scheme. She switched her pension from the employers scheme to a 
personal pension. 
In 2014 Miss F had advice from Prosperis on her pension arrangements. She completed a 
risk questionnaire and a fact-find document. At the time she lived with her partner, owned a 
property subject to a mortgage and another property that was let to tenants. She had income 
from her employment of £52,500 and rental income of £6,000.
Prosperis recommended that Miss F transfer her pension to the Aegon Retirement Choice 
(ARC) Platform. The letter noted that she was aged 42 and aiming to retire at 60, targeting a 
minimum income of £10,000 but felt an income of £25,000 would provide a comfortable 
retirement. Her pension had a transfer value of around £55,000. Prosperis recommended 
that the funds be invested in a portfolio appropriate for her moderately adventurous attitude 
to risk. Prosperis said there was no guarantee the pension under the recommended plan 
would be greater but said it would be more cost effective. 
Miss F accepted the recommendation and signed up for an ongoing service which entitled 
her to access to an adviser and review meetings by prior arrangement. Prosperis kept in 
touch with her over the following years and sought her approval to changes to the portfolio 
from time to time.
In 2018 Miss F asked for advice on her pension with her then employers scheme. Again, a 
fact-find was completed together with a further risk assessment. Prosperis set out its advice 
in a letter which noted that she was still hoping to retire at age 60 and was keen to 
consolidate her pensions. 
She was advised to transfer the pension with her employers pension scheme (worth around 
£137,500) to the ARC platform (which was now worth around £79,500) and invest the funds 
in a medium risk portfolio. This was lower than her attitude to risk but was recommended in 
order to protect the funds she had accumulated.
Prosperis charged a fee of 2% for this advice and an ongoing advice fee of 1%.
Miss F received reports which showed the value of her pension increasing but in 2021 she 
was notified of a drop in value. This prompted Miss F to review her pension arrangements. 
She complained that she had paid a lot of charges to Prosperis over the years but seen only 
small returns in growth. She also said Prosperis had failed to reply to emails from her.
Prosperis didnt think it had been at fault, saying: 
Taking account of all the money Miss F had invested and the value of her pension at 
April 2022, there had been a return of 2.6% per year; this had fallen back a little since 
a high point in November 2021.
Other than on one occasion, it had no evidence of other emails sent by her and she 
had confirmed she no longer had those emails. It had not received anything in its 
mailboxes. Without the emails from Miss F it couldnt investigate further.
Fees were all clearly set out. They were linked to the funds being managed and as 
the pension increased in value, so the fees increased proportionately.
There was no annual review in 2021 but it had written to her offering one and didnt 
get a response. It proposed a further review at her earliest convenience.
When Miss F referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said:
Although Miss F had been given illustrations of possible returns, those returns were 
not guaranteed. Investments are subject to market conditions and will rise and fall 
over time.
When the pension first started, projected growth rates were much higher.
The funds were invested in a suitable range of assets and investments, in line with 
her attitude to risk, and the investments didnt become unsuitable as a result of poor 
performance.
Although she paid an ongoing service fee, that didnt cover any discretionary or 
investment management service, so Prosperis wasnt required to make changes to 
the investment strategy unless her circumstances or attitude to risk changed.
She received annual reports so she could monitor the pension and could have 
contacted Prosperis at any time to request a review.
Prosperis had clearly set out its charges, which were 2% of any transfers in and up to 
1% of the fund value. The fees charged by Prosperis amounted to about £1,131 per 
year.
Miss F disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. She has made a number of 
points, in particular that: 
Shes not complaining about poor growth so much as the lack of service.
Prosperis should have been looking at her investments and making changes but 
failed to do this, at least from 2019 onwards  she heard little from them after that 
point. 
Growth was only 2% and the fees were 2% so effectively there was no growth. but 
no-one reviewed the fact that all the growth was being eaten up by fees or did 
anything to address this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has referred to the fact she originally had some advice from Prosperis much earlier 
than 2014. Our investigator has explained that at the time of the original advice on the 
employers scheme, Prosperis had been appointed by the employer. It was only when 
Miss F entered into an agreement in 2014 that she became its client. I have only considered 
the advice given to her after that.
When giving advice, Prosperis had to obtain relevant information about Miss Fs 
circumstances and her objectives, and recommend something that was suitable for her.
In both 2014 and 2018 Prosperis obtained information about Miss Fs finances and reviewed her circumstances, including her attitude to risk. The portfolio recommended in 2014 
benefited from diversification of assets and a range of fund managers. Overall, I think the 
portfolio was appropriate for her agreed attitude to risk.
in 2018, Prosperis recommended a medium risk investment strategy. Although this was 
slightly lower than her assessed attitude to risk, it was done so Miss F could protect the 
funds that had been accumulated up to then. The investment term was now shorter than in 
2014, and the ARC pension now represented a much larger portion of her overall retirement 
provision. In these circumstances I think a slightly lower risk was a reasonable approach. 
The recommended portfolio consisted of 18 funds and a cash holding. So this was again a  
well-diversified portfolio. The fund factsheet showed 30% was held in fixed interest or cash 
assets and 70% in equities as of April 2017. Overall, I dont think that was unsuitable for 
Miss F. 
Although the investments may not have performed as well as hoped, that doesnt in itself 
mean they were unsuitable. They were part of a long-term strategy aimed at providing a 
pension for Miss F at age 60. They would inevitably be subject to fluctuations in value over 
the years and have gained in value overall.
In any event, Miss F says her main concern is not the advice to invest in these funds or how 
they performed, but a lack of advice in later years; she says when it became clear her 
pension wasnt performing as well as she had hoped for, Prosperis should have intervened. 
In particular she says she had no real contact with Prosperis after 2019 and any gains were 
eaten up by the charges she was paying.
The fee Miss F paid to Prosperis was for the service it provided, which entitled her to
constructing a portfolio;
phone and email access to an adviser; and
review meetings by prior appointment.
Prosperis did arrange for the portfolio to be put together and Ive explained why I consider 
the choice of funds was suitable. Ive gone on to consider what happened between 2019 and 
2022.
Performance of the funds fluctuated during that period. In July 2019 the value was £225,538 
(with a return in the current period of 11%). In November 2021 it had increased to £256,660 
and in April 2022 fallen back to £230,788. This isnt unusual and was due to market 
conditions. Prosperis fee didnt cover a discretionary or investment management service, so 
it wasnt required to monitor the day-to-day performance of her investments or make 
changes to the investment strategy until such time as her circumstances or attitude to risk 
changed. Prosperis was available if she wanted to discuss changing investment strategies 
and meetings could be arranged with an adviser on request. It would then have been able to 
discuss things with Miss F and advise on whether changes were needed.
There was a review meeting in September 2019, around a year after the transfer. The next 
real contact between Miss F and Prosperis was in April 2020. Miss F said she was aware 
there had been falls in the market (relating to the covid-19 pandemic) and she would have to 
ride these out. So at that point I think she was taking into account the market conditions 
and not seeking an intervention. 
Prosperis did offer Miss F a review in September 2021 and again in April 2022, when it 
replied to her complaint. So she did have the opportunity to review the investments if she 
wished but didnt pursue this. In addition, Miss F would have received annual valuations so 
she could monitor how the investments were performing. If at any time she was concerned 
about how the funds were performing she could have contacted Prosperis to discuss this. I havent seen evidence of Miss F seeking reviews and this being ignored or refused. On the 
evidence Ive seen, it wasnt until she became concerned about the performance of her 
pension in 2021 that she got in touch with Prosperis. And, as Ive said, she was offered 
reviews in September 2021 and April 2022 but didnt follow up on these.
Miss F says she sent emails and didnt receive replies. She also thinks the fact her adviser 
moved to a part time role meant no-one was keeping an eye on her pension. But I 
understand she doesnt have copies of emails that went unanswered. Prosperis has checked 
its records and has not been able to provide any further documents. Whilst her recollection is 
that emails went unanswered, without further evidence its difficult to say Prosperis was at 
fault. 
Miss F complains that she paid fees of around £4,000 a year. But some of those fees were 
for others (for example, a platform fee to the provider of the pension platform, and an annual 
management charge on the funds) The actual costs paid to Prosperis were 2% of any 
transfers in, and 0.75% of fund value for ongoing services, which later rose to 1%. Whilst 
she has said she was charged just for accepting the transfer of funds, those fees were to 
cover the advice given to her about how to invest her pension. 
I appreciate Miss F is disappointed about whats happened but taking all of the above into 
account I dont think Prosperis is at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman