DRN-3187695
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sentor Solutions Commercial Ltd (SSC) gave him unsuitable advice to 
invest in a convertible loan note. He now believes it was a scam and he has lost the capital 
he invested. 
What happened
Mr R said he received advice and accepted a recommendation from SSC to invest in a loan 
note issued by a property company. In September 2020, Mr R invested £45,000 in a loan 
note that promised to pay him interest at a rate of 14.5%. The investment was due to mature 
after three years, where Mr R expected to have his capital investment returned. But Mr R 
didnt receive any interest payments and the loan defaulted almost immediately and his 
capital wasnt returned. 
Mr R complained to SSC about the advice he received. SSC responded and said:
- It offered advice to Mr R based on the information he provided and on the outcomes 
that he hoped to receive.
- The product recommended to Mr R matched his needs based on the information 
provided to SSC by the company issuing the loan note. The risk profile and history of 
the company was based on information provided by them and the descriptions of 
promised returns was from feedback from them.
- It doesnt have ownership or executive involvement with the company issuing the 
loan notes. And while some information provided to Mr R now looks misleading, this 
was simply information that it was provided with.
- Unfortunately, it doesnt have assets or insurance in place to consider a refund of Mr 
Rs money and it will likely become insolvent. 
Mr R contacted this service and asked us to investigate his complaint and provide an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. In summary he said: 
- He was satisfied from the evidence provided by Mr R that SSC did provide advice to 
invest in the loan note.
- The investment recommended to Mr R exposed him to significant to risk. And, based 
on what hed seen, the investigator didnt think that was in line with Mr Rs risk 
appetite. He thought suitable advice would have instead led to Mr R having made 
lower risk investments.
- The information SSC provided about the investment to Mr R was misleading.
- Mr R should be compensated by comparing the performance of his investment with 
that of a benchmark that represents a small risk. He asked SSC to pay any loss that 
results from the comparison. 
Mr R responded and accepted the outcome the investigator reached.
SSC responded to the investigator. It said it accepts Mr R was given misleading information 
regarding the company he invested in, its financial viability, and was informed that it was a 
low risk investment, when it appears to be rather high risk. But said it is insolvent and is 
unable to pay any claim or award to Mr R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited evidence from the sale of the investment. SSC hasnt been able to provide 
any information it retained from the sale such as a fact find or recommendation report, but 
Mr R has provided records that he retained. Having reviewed this information, I consider it to 
be credible and the documents provided support the complaint Mr R now makes. He has 
been able to provide the promotion brochure he received, and also various emails sent to 
him by SSC about the suitability of the investment for his needs. So, there is enough 
information about the characteristics of the loan notes that mean Im satisfied that it amounts 
to an investment for the purposes of the rules I must consider. 
Mr R says he was advised by SSC to invest. In the context of the regulatory framework, 
investment advice is a regulated activity  and something this service can consider 
complaints about. Broadly speaking, a firm providing advice has a duty to ensure that it is 
suitable. In terms of establishing that SSC recommended the investment to Mr R, I have 
considered its acknowledgment of its involvement in the sale and note it hasnt denied 
making a recommendation to invest. This further supported by the emails Mr R has provided 
which contain statements such as:
I previously wrote to you with a recommendation that [borrowing company] bonds would be 
ideal in your personal circumstances. I will not go over the rationale again, but I do 
recommend that you complete your subscription.
If I am correct in my assessment of your needs above, then in my professional opinion,
as an FCA approved person, I feel that the [..] bond is ideal for your needs.
I wholeheartedly recommend [] to you. As stated above, my advice to you is entirely free. 
Many other IFAs or financial professionals will charge you additionally if they undertake a 
needs based assessment such as this.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded by evidence that SSC recommended the 
investment to Mr R. So, Ive gone to consider whether the advice was suitable for him. 
The evidence Ive seen indicates that that this investment was of a complex nature and high 
risk. It appears to involve investors funds being used to facilitate the purchase
and subsequent operation of commercial property development projects at various locations 
within the UK. Investments in property carry inherent risks  including the difficulty in 
valuation of assets, success of projects and also in terms of liquidity. So, there does seem to 
be a number of layers of risk involved where things could go wrong.   
I also note the investment brochure says It is anticipated that the Convertible Loan Notes
will only be offered to High Net Worth and Sophisticated Investors. This raises a further 
question as to whether this type of investment should have been sold to someone in Mr Rs 
circumstances. 
There is limited information about Mr Rs circumstances at the time. For example, there is 
not the usual documents such as a fact find which clearly sets our Mr Rs needs and 
circumstances. But there is some information Mr R has been able to provide from the time which is useful in establishing what type of investment he was looking for and his attitude to 
risk. The following is contained in an email SSC sent to Mr R in September 2020. 
From the background that you have given me, I have built up a solid picture of what you are
trying to achieve. Please correct me if I am wrong, but I have tasked myself with finding a
company for you to invest in that has the following key components:
1. Safety and very low risk profile
2. Security of your invested funds
3. Excellent Returns, above those offered by comparable products.
4. Consistent guaranteed returns over 3-5 year time horizon.
5. Additional guarantees in the form of FSCS protection, a regulated security trustee etc.
6. You have between a total of £20,000 and £100,000 of capital to invest over the next 6-12 
months.
7. You are looking to safeguard your existing capital but also build it in the form of high 
interest payments, paid either monthly, quarterly or annually.
8. Your preference is to invest only in companies based in the UK with a 5-10 year track 
record of success that I have been able to independently verify.
I have worked with [bond issuer] and am entirely confident that your funds will be secure, 
and that their company and business model is very low risk.
This email correspondence between Mr R and SSC points towards him looking for a low risk 
investment. But for the reasons Ive described, this is not the type of investment that 
provided a low level of risk  quite the opposite. So, I think Mr R was mis-led by SSC when it 
described the nature of the investment to him. 
Having considered the evidence provided, it does not support that Mr R was a high-risk 
investor with investment experience that made it possible for him to understand the risks 
involved in investing in these loan notes  or that they were different from mainstream 
investments. He appears to be prepared to take a low level of risk, which was mismatched 
by the high-risk nature of the loan notes. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given 
above, I dont think this investment was suitable for Mr R as it presented a higher risk with 
his capital than he was prepared to take. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr R 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SSC do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, SSC must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SSC should also pay interest as set out below.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Convertible 
loan noteStill exists but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr R agrees to SSC taking ownership 
of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for SSC to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr R that he repays to SSC any amount he may receive from 
the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, SSC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sentor Solutions Commercial Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Sentor Solutions Commercial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman