DRN-2029501
The complaint
Mr K complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,
S.A. wont complete repairs to his car after he made a claim on his minor cosmetic repair 
motor insurance policy. He wants the repairs made or his premium refunded. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged, and he made a claim to Mapfre. He sent in photographs of the 
damage. Mapfre accepted the claim and sent a technician to make the repair. But he said he 
wasnt able to complete it. Mapfre said the damage was outside the limits of the policys 
terms and conditions. But Mr K disagreed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mapfre 
was entitled to decline the claim even though initially, from the photographs, it thought it 
would be covered. This was because the damage was across more than two body panels, 
there was exposed metal work and the repairer said he couldnt complete it. The investigator 
thought the engineer had established this. These were policy exclusions. And so he thought 
it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim. 
Mr K replied that if Mapfre could change its mind about a claim, then so could he and it 
should refund his premium. He thought the engineer had removed undercoat making the 
damage worse. He thought the damaged wing mirror wasnt a body panel. He thought the 
policy had been mis-sold. He was also unhappy that he couldnt now cancel the policy 
because hed made a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K feels frustrated that his claim was declined. Hes told us that he 
had to wait in for the repairer, he had to fill in forms and emails, and his car is still 
unrepaired. 
I can see that Mr K was upset that Mapfre accepted his claim on the basis of his claim form 
and photographs, but then rejected it. But I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to 
change its mind after further inspection of the damage. This may not always be evident from 
the photographs. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mapfre relied on the following policy exclusions to decline the claim:
What Is Not Covered Under This Insurance
Anything that cannot be defined as Minor Cosmetic Damage, or Minor Cosmetic Damage 
that extends across more than 2 body panels. In the event that the damage extends across 
more than 2 body panels, the entire claim will be excluded.
Any claim where in the opinion of the Approved Repairer, a Repair cannot be effectively 
carried out, or any Repair where work will need to be completed by a body shop.
Minor Cosmetic Damage where the paint is cracked, flaked, or where any paint has been 
removed to reveal the underlying metalwork; paintwork discoloration; damage to, or 
reapplication of any form of paint protection film, liquid, wax, or sealant; or any variation in 
paint colour or finish due to the age of the Insured Vehicle.
These exclusions are set out in the policy terms and conditions. Mr K said he hadnt read 
these before he made a claim. But I cant reasonably hold Mapfre responsible for that. He 
also thought they were unclear. But I dont agree. I think they clearly set out what wont be 
covered in a claim. 
Mr K disagreed with Mapfre about the damage caused. He said the damage was to the 
bonnet, side door and wing mirror casing. 
As the investigator has already explained, were not engineers. We dont assess the damage 
to a vehicle as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies 
and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company 
has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about 
repairs.
I can see that the engineer classed the wing mirror casing as a body panel. And so the 
damage extended across more than two body panels. He thought there was exposed metal 
work. Mr K said hed picked at the undercoat, but Ive no evidence to substantiate this. Ive 
seen that Mapfre also judged there to be exposed metal work on the basis of Mr Ks 
photographs when it re-examined the claim. And the engineer thought he was unable to 
complete the repair effectively. 
These are three exclusions under the policy terms and conditions. I havent seen any further 
expert independent evidence that Mapfre should have considered. So I think it justified its 
decision not to make the repairs. 
Mr K thought the policy had been mis-sold. But, from what I can understand, this was sold to 
him when he bought his car. So I cant reasonably hold Mapfre responsible for that or 
consider that here. I can see from Mapfres notes that Mr K had said he would complain to 
the dealership about the sale. 
Mr K was also unhappy that he couldnt now cancel his policy because hed made a claim. 
But I cant see that hes complained to Mapfre about this first to give it a chance to respond. 
So Im unable to consider that concern here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman