DRN-3672484
The complaint
Mrs P became concerned that Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) may have placed 
orders for financial products on her behalf using its own signatures. Mrs P was disappointed 
with Origens response to her requests for information and documentation about the 
investments made on her account. 
Mrs P is represented by her son, Mr P, in bringing her complaint. I will be referring to both in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mrs P had been a client of Origens since 2003. It terminated its relationship with her after 
she raised concerns about the service she had received. 
Mrs P requested copies of the original order requests for the investments made from 2003. 
As a result of Origen no longer holding those records, and it no longer representing Mrs P 
with the product providers of the underlying investments, Origen wasnt able to access the 
original transaction documents which Mrs P thought had been signed on her behalf. 
Mrs P raised her concerns with Origen. It said it no longer held the documents and had 
complied with record keeping rules. It couldnt request any information from the relevant 
product providers as it no longer represented Mrs P. It couldnt confirm who had signed the 
investment orders but wouldnt have been able to do so unless it was permissible with the 
product providers and with Mrs Ps confirmation. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mrs P brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He outlined some of the rules and regulations that businesses are obliged to comply 
with and didnt find Origen was at fault.
He thought that on balance, it was unlikely Origen was holding much of the 
documentation that Mrs P was asking for. And it wasnt under a strict obligation to do 
so.
Most of the complaint was being dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) which he thought was appropriate. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said;
Guidance for record retention refers to a suitable period which overrode what the 
investigator had said.
There was an on-going relationship with Mrs P and a management obligation for the 
records to be kept as well as Origen being paid an ongoing commission. 
Origen signed the application for the products so it should have kept those records.
Origen was using its termination of its agreement with Mrs P as an excuse not to 
retrieve the records.
Origen wasnt behaving reasonably or appropriately to a long-standing client.
Mr P asked for the complaint to go to the ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ill look at this complaint in two parts. First, was Origen within its rights to no longer hold the 
documents from the point of sale, and second, was it fair and reasonable in its attempts to 
access that information for her. 
Mrs P made the investments in 2003  20 years ago, or 18 years before the issue was 
raised with Origen. When this service deals with complaints of this type and information and 
documentation from that long ago is not available, generally we wouldnt find that surprising 
because of the length of time since the sale. And businesses arent obliged to keep records 
indefinitely. But in certain circumstances this might not be the case and the rules and 
regulations provided by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) would provide more 
guidance. 
In this case, Mrs P wants copies of the orders that had been signed in order to make the 
investments on her account. She wants to see who signed those documents and it is the 
FCAs Conduct of Business (COBS) that apply to the retention of those records. The rules 
say for the assessment and appropriateness of investments and the subsequent client 
orders  both the initial orders from clients and decisions to deal and the transaction and 
processing  those records should be held for at least five years. 
However, there is obviously a risk for any organisation to keep data longer term as there is 
always the risk that it can be inappropriately accessed and used. There are Government 
guidelines to this effect and The Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) says that for the use of 
personal data, the holder of that data must ensure the information is kept for no longer than 
is necessary. 
I note that Origens Terms of Business state that We keep records of all your transactions 
for at least six years. So, Origen kept records for longer than required by the regulator, but it 
still had to balance that with stipulations of the DPA. It would be up to Origen to decide when 
that data was being kept for longer than necessary. And from what I know of other 
organisations record retention times, I dont find that six years is unusual or unreasonable. 
So, I am satisfied that Origen has acted in accordance with the regulations it has to abide by. 
And I cant conclude that it has done anything wrong in 18 years later not retaining the 
original signed orders which were used to make the investments. 
However, irrespective of the rules and regulations Ive also looked to see whether Origen 
made genuine efforts to assist Mrs P in obtaining the information she wanted  the original 
orders to invest. 
In response to the requests I note that Origen provided Mr P with the search criteria it had 
carried out and explained some of the information obtained was so high in volume that it would involve a fee for the necessary redactions to be carried out but suggested a specific 
timeframe for its search might be more fruitful. Mr P said he was particularly interested in 
data associated with one investment in particular and also the original purchase forms.
Again, a high volume was returned which would prove manifestly excessive for the business. 
But Origen had completed a search for 2002/2003 for purchase documents relevant to the 
product providers Mrs P invested with but nothing was found. Mr P asked that Origen 
contact the product providers in order for the original order forms to be retrieved. 
However, after the termination of its relationship with Mrs P, Origen no longer had authority 
to deal with the product providers on Mrs Ps behalf. The product providers wouldnt provide 
that information to Origen. But Mrs P could request that information direct from the product 
providers. And I note that in correspondence Origen gave the contact details of the product 
providers in order that Mr P could start that process. 
So even outside of the rules, I think Origen acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs P in its attempts to find the documents she wanted. And I agree that Origen was no 
longer allowed to act for Mrs P or obtain the necessary information from the product 
providers after its relationship with her was terminated. It provided the means with which    
Mr P could start the process of accessing that information with the product providers when it 
provided the contact details. 
Overall, I dont think that Origen has done anything wrong. Quite simply, it no longer holds 
the documents that Mrs P wishes to see. And it hasnt done anything wrong by no longer 
holding those records  it had acted in accordance with regulatory requirements and other 
good industry practice. As the relationship with Mrs P had ended, it also wasnt in the 
position to approach the product providers to retrieve that information. 
Taking all of the above into account, and in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont uphold it and I wont be asking Origen to do anything more. I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached that decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman