DRN-3698259
The complaint
Ms R, through her representative, complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her when she 
could not afford it.
What happened
Ms R applied for and was approved for one £500 loan in December 2019. The repayments 
were over a relatively lengthy time of 18 months and around £114 each month. So, the total 
to repay was £2,057.04. 
It started to get hard for Ms R to repay the loan early in 2020 and that coincided with the 
national Covid-19 pandemic lockdowns. Linked with that pandemic, new rules on 
forbearance were introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Eventually, Ms R complained to Loans 2 Go in March 2022 and Ms Rs representative 
received the lenders final response letter (FRL) dated April 2022. In it Loans 2 Go did not 
accept it had done anything wrong but it made this concession:
However, based on what you have revealed about your clients financial 
circumstances, I believe it is important that we do our best to offer some assistance.
As a gesture of goodwill and testament to Loans2Go Limiteds commitment to 
assisting and treating our customers fairly, we are offering to write off the 
outstanding balance and close the account, meaning that your client would not 
be liable to make any further payments on the borrowing.
Current Balance: £990.51
Proposed Write Off Amount: £990.51 
Proposed New Balance: £0.00
Please advise us if your client is satisfied with the resolution provided and accepts 
this as full and final settlement of the complaint within 14 days of this letter
It seems that Ms R did not accept this offer as her complaint was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 2 Go had enough 
information to calculate that Ms R could afford the £500 loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. So, our adjudicator did not think that Loans 2 Go needed to do 
anything to put things right for Ms R. 
Later our adjudicator asked for copy bank statements. The first batch sent from Ms R 
covered 2015 and so were irrelevant as this loan applied to a December 2019 lending 
decision. The second batch of bank statements sent to us from Ms R showed very little 
information for the period leading up to that December 2019 loan decision. And so, our 
adjudicator was not persuaded to alter her view.
Our adjudicator did not express any view on the offer to write off £990 of debt for Ms R. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. After I had reviewed the complaint, 
I asked Loans 2 Go whether that offer is still available but it has said it is not as Ms R 
rejected it when she brought her complaint to us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms R would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Ms R  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Ms R. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Ms R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
I am very sorry to hear of Ms Rs personal loss and I appreciate that the period must have 
been very painful and likely meant that financial matters were relegated to low importance 
and then became very disturbing the deeper Ms R got into debt. 
But I am being asked to decide whether Loans 2 Go had done the wrong thing by lending to 
Ms R £500 in December 2019 and that is what I am focussing on. Ms R had declared a 
relatively modest monthly wage (£1,000) but that was for part-time and not full time work and 
I have taken that into account. What I mean by that is, that the £1,000 salary was not 
because her work was low paid but because of it being part-time. 
I am conscious that this was a high-cost loan but its not an aspect about which I am able to 
comment or make any decision upon. Professional lenders are free to set their commercial 
terms as they consider fit and Ms R applied to it for that loan. But I have considered the 
18 month commitment Ms R was signing up to when she took the loan. 
Ms R declared modest expenditure and Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. Although 
normally I would not expect a lender to ask any additional questions or do further research 
for a £500 loan, here I have seen that the credit search revealed earlier money problems. 
Ms R had received four County Court Judgments and the most recent had been in 
March 2016 which was 45 months before Ms R applied to Loans 2 Go. So, I have thought 
about this carefully. 45 months is a significant period but having four CCJs is also rather a 
lot. 
As Ms Rs application to Loans 2 Go was for a relatively modest sum of  £500, usually Id not 
expect Loans 2 Go to make additional enquiries. But here as the loan was going to be for an 
18 month repayment period and as Ms R had had four CCJs which is a high number, despite 
them being historic ones, I think that Loans 2 Go ought to have made further enquiries.
I dont think it did that. But my deliberations do not stop there. I need to be satisfied that had 
Loans 2 Go made those enquiries then the information it would have discovered was such 
that it would have realised it ought not to have lent. 
Ms Rs representative did send to us some copy bank statements for one of Ms Rs 
accounts. I have looked at the ones leading up to the approval date of December 2019. 
From the transactions shown then it seems Ms R likely had another account as several 
transfers in and out took place. So, for the period of about three months up to 
December 2019 these banks statements do not reveal much. And certainly, do not persuade 
me to think that had Loans 2 Go dug deeper it would have chosen not to lend to Ms R. 
Additional information Ms R has sent to us seem to relate to more recent bills and her 
current financial situation, and not to financial issues contemporaneous with the 
December 2019 lending decision and so are not relevant for that. 
So  I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint.
But Ms Rs current financial position is one which Loans 2 Go is or needs to be aware of 
when approaching Ms R for repayment of the debt. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman