DRN-2578008
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) have charged him an 
excess for windscreen repair twice. Hes also unhappy with the customer service they 
provided. 
What happened
Mr A had a new windscreen fitted by a Direct Line approved repairer in January 2020. 
Around a month later whilst Mr A was driving, he heard a loud noise like something had 
exploded. After checking he noticed a chip on the windscreen. 
Mr A says the noise was so loud it sounded like the glass had detached and consequently 
he didnt feel safe driving. As Mr A hadnt experienced any issues with his windscreen in the 
previous five years, he had concerns about the quality of the goods the approved repairer 
had installed. He returned to the approved repairer to fix the issue under the warranty for the 
previous repair. 
The approved repairer inspected the windscreen and identified a 28mm combination stone 
chip break in the C zone of the windscreen. They didnt find any issues with the quality of the 
glass that had been used. Therefore, an additional £75 excess fee applied. Mr A was 
unhappy about having to pay an additional fee and with the service he had received. Direct 
Line were satisfied with the repairers findings and apologised for mis-spelling Mr As 
surname in recent correspondence.
Mr A was unhappy so referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt feel Direct 
Line hadnt done anything wrong in charging the additional excess fee and was satisfied they 
had apologised for spelling Mr As name wrong. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr A's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome Mr A hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
The policy schedule explains there is an excess fee of £75 for windscreen replacement and 
the policy states that repairs carried out by approved repairers are guaranteed for five years 
unless you sell the car. So, Ive considered if there was an issue with the quality of goods 
used or the installation itself.
Direct Line have provided information which shows the glass had been fully inspected after 
the installation in January 2020 with no concerns identified. And there was a further 
inspection by an expert technician when Mr A returned to the repairer at the beginning of 
March 2020. The expert technician assessed the windscreen by following the crack to see if 
there was a contact point, having done this he determined the damage was caused by a 
stone.
They also explained theyve had no systemic issues with that part and that all glazing parts 
designed for the UK have to conform to the Economic Commission for Europe regulation 
ECE R43, which requires robust testing. So, Ive no reason to believe the glass wouldnt 
have been fit for purpose and fully tested before being fitted.
I can understand Mr As concerns having had a new windscreen fitted not long before the 
event but based on everything Ive seen I dont think there was an issue with the quality of 
the goods supplied. Its clear the product has to go through a specific testing process which 
is outside the repairers control before being approved for use. 
The information Direct Line provided also shows the installation was checked after 
completion and Mr A signed the document to say the work had been carried out to his 
satisfaction.
Windscreens can become damaged for various reasons such as debris from the road. And 
whilst its unfortunate for Mr A, I think its very likely hes experienced two separate 
incidences of damage from debris hitting his windscreen. That being the case, Direct Line 
havent done anything wrong in charging two excess fees. 
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received from the repairer, specifically that they called 
him when he asked for an email and the case handler spelt his name incorrectly. I 
understand Mr As strength of feeling about the confusion with his name, however, Im 
satisfied this was a genuine error  for which Mr A has received an apology.
Calling Mr A when hed asked for an email also appears to have been an error and, although 
unfortunate, I cant see that its cause Mr A any significant or lasting trouble. So, in summary, 
I dont think Direct Line need to do anything further.
My final decision
For reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman