DRN-3853724
The complaint
Mr T complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) unfairly declined his claim for 
Permanent Total Disability benefit.
What happened
Mr T took out a Wesleyan critical illness policy (the policy) on 23 July 1997. The policy 
provided a £250,000 sum assured in the event Mr T was diagnosed with one of the listed 
critical illnesses or became totally and permanently unable to carry out the duties of his 
occupation within the 23-year term.
Mr T sadly contracted Covid-19 in April 2020. He suffered neurological complications 
following his diagnosis  including short term memory loss, cognitive impairment, fatigue, 
twitches and numbness  and was later diagnosed with long-Covid. He also developed 
significant urinary symptoms secondary to a prostate infection, which led to him being 
hospitalised. He was ultimately diagnosed with hyposplenism secondary to Covid infection. 
(Within Mr Ts medical records the terms hyposplenism and asplenia appear to be used 
interchangeably, for clarity I will refer exclusively to hyposplenism.)
Mr T contacted Wesleyan on 20 July 2020 to register a claim for Permanent Total Disability 
benefit. The policy term ended on 23 July 2020 and all cover ceased on that date. Mr Ts 
expected retirement date was September 2020.
Wesleyan considered Mr Ts claim but ultimately concluded the evidence did not support that 
he was permanently and totally disabled before the policy ended on 23 July 2020.
Mr T referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt Wesleyan had 
treated him unfairly. He considered the evidence was clear that his debilitating symptoms, 
which prevented him from working, were all linked to his Covid diagnosis, which he had 
before cover ended.
Our investigator considered the complaint but ultimately concluded Wesleyan had fairly 
declined the claim. She was not persuaded the evidence supported that Mr T was totally and 
permanently unable to carry out the duties of his occupation before the policy ended.
Mr T disagreed and asked for his case to be referred to an Ombudsman. He explained that 
he continues to suffer from debilitating symptoms and conditions, which can be linked back 
to his diagnosis with Covid. He also explained that his hyposplenism diagnosis would have 
prevented him from returning to work due to the increased risk of infection, as his occupation 
meant he was in an at risk group. While his complaint was being considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman, Mr Ts employment was terminated by his employer due to his 
ill-health.
Following our Investigators review, Mr T provided further evidence from his treating 
specialist (who Ill refer to as Dr D), which gave an overview of his health since his diagnosis 
with Covid in April 2020. Mr T also explained that hed recently been hospitalised with sepsis 
and required intensive treatment with intravenous antibiotics. He explained his recent illness 
had been linked back to his Covid infection in April 2020.
Mr Ts complaint was passed to me to decide. On 14 November 2022 I issued a provisional 
decision where I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about the difficulties Mr T has faced since his diagnosis with Covid in 
April 2020. Its clear he has been, and continues to be, severely impacted by it. And I 
dont doubt it must have been devastating to have his job terminated due to ill-health, 
particularly given the financial consequences this has had on him.
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ts circumstances, I cant order Wesleyan to pay a 
claim unless theres clear, persuasive evidence to show the policy terms and conditions 
have been met in full. I must be fair and reasonable to both parties.
Having reviewed everything weve been sent, including the most recent letter from Dr D, I 
am not upholding this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, so 
Id like to explain how Ive reached this decision.
In considering this case, I must look strictly at what the policy was designed to offer and 
what the policy terms and conditions provide for. For a claim to be admitted under the 
policy, there would need to be clear persuasive medical evidence that the policy definition 
had been met, and that it had been met while the policy was still in force  i.e. before 23 
July 2020.
The policy terms and conditions set out that for a claim to be paid the definition must be 
met during the policy term, it says:
We will pay the critical illness benefit stated in the schedule if the life assured suffers any 
of the critical illnesses defined in the Appendix while this policy is in force.
Permanent total disability is then defined in the Appendix as:
Total and permanent inability of the life assured to carry out the duties of his or her 
normal occupation because of sickness or accident.
You will be able to claim if the life assured will never be able to work again in his or her 
normal occupation due to either sickness or accident.
As such, the most relevant factor was not whether Mr Ts underlying condition (i.e. long 
Covid or hyposplenism) started during the term of cover, but rather if he could reasonably 
have been judged to be totally and permanently incapacitated because of that 
condition(s) during the period of cover.
I can understand why Mr T may think it should be judged differently. But sadly, its not 
enough to say that a condition that started during the period of cover may in time lead to 
a total and permanent incapacity. There would also need to be clear evidence that it led 
to total and permanent incapacity during the period of cover.
While I accept it may now be apparent that Mr T is unable to return to his occupation, and 
I understand his contract of employment has now been terminated, the key is whether 
that conclusion could reasonably have been reached before 23 July 2020. I dont think 
the evidence supports that it could.In deciding if Mr T was totally and permanently incapacitated, Wesleyan would have 
needed to see evidence which confirmed that he was totally unable to perform his normal 
occupation, and that there was no reasonable prospect of improvement or recovery at 
any point in the future. As such, Wesleyan could reasonably expect to see evidence that 
all treatment options had been explored and exhausted, and that there was general 
medical consensus that Mr Ts incapacity was likely to last his lifetime.
While it was clear Mr T had been unable to work since his diagnosis with Covid in April 
2020, Wesleyan was unable to conclude that the incapacity was permanent before the 
policy ended on 23 July 2020. I think this conclusion was reasonable.
I can see that Mr Ts GP (who Ill refer to as Dr B) noted in a Confidential Medical 
Certificate completed on 1 February 2021 that there was no realistic possibility of return 
to work before retirement. But this report was written in February 2021, six months after 
the policy had ended. Dr B had also seemingly based his judgement on Mr Ts ability to 
return to work before his expected retirement in September 2020. In view of this 
Wesleyan sought clarification of whether the same conclusion could reasonably have 
been reached in July 2020. It also noted that the policy does not have an age limit, and so 
the evidence would need to show that Mr T would never be able to return to work, rather 
than whether a return was feasible before an anticipated retirement date.
In his reply, Dr B did not specifically answer whether he could have concluded that Mr T 
was totally and permanently incapacitated in July 2020. Instead, he confirmed that by July 
2020 Mr T had been suffering symptoms for more than 12 weeks, which would fit the 
criteria for long-Covid. He explained long-Covid has an unpredictable prognosis. He 
also noted that Mr T continues to suffer symptoms of long-Covid and has also developed 
hyposplenism due to his diagnosis with Covid.
While Dr Bs evidence indicates the link between Mr Ts more recent symptoms with his 
diagnosis of Covid, crucially he did not conclude that it was known or believed that Mr T 
was totally and permanently incapacitated in July 2020. As such, Im satisfied that 
Wesleyan could not reasonably have accepted the claim based on this evidence.
Having reviewed Mr Ts medical records, Wesleyan noted that even after the policy had 
expired there was still a hope and expectation that Mr T would be able to return to work.
In a letter dated 10 July 2020 Dr D said I have suggested that he has a further four to six 
weeks of sick leave in order to consolidate his recovery, both from COVID and his recent 
surgery When the time does come for him to return to work, I have suggested that he 
initially does half days before attempting to return to his previous hectic schedule.
In December 2020, Dr D wrote to Dr B with an update on Mr Ts condition. He said I am 
still hopeful that with time his neurological symptoms will improve. Dr D also referred Mr 
T to a consultant neuropsychologist, noting [Mr T] has not yet been able to return to 
work. Were it possible for his assessment to be prioritised, this would be most helpful with 
regards his further occupational rehabilitation.
In another letter dated 4 August 2021 he noted, in reference to Mr T, that "ideally he 
wants to return to work but he accepts that at present this is not something he could do".
As such, I cant reasonably conclude that it was accepted that Mr T would never return to 
his occupation before the policy ended in July 2020, as this was very much still the aim at 
that time and indeed for months after the policy ended. Its also clear that treatments were 
still being considered and trialled after the policy ended, so again it would not have been 
clear in July 2020 if Mr Ts incapacity was permanent at that time. I realise there has been some discussion about Mr Ts diagnosis with hyposplenism - 
whether it was directly caused by Covid and whether the existence of that diagnosis 
meant Mr T would have been permanently incapacitated due to the heightened risk of 
serious infection linked with his occupation.
In terms of the first point, Dr Ds most recent evidence confirms that the hyposplenism 
was secondary to Covid infection, which satisfies me there was a link.
In terms of the second point, while central to Mr Ts appeal, I dont think I need to reach a 
conclusion on this. The evidence indicates that Mr T was diagnosed with hyposplenism 
sometime in 2021. As such, even if this diagnosis would, in itself, have meant Mr T could 
never work again, this could not be considered as part of this claim as it was diagnosed 
after the policy had ended. As such, no medical professional could have concluded Mr T 
was incapacitated due to hyposplenism because no one knew he had this condition until 
after the policy had ended.
I should note that while I cant conclude that Mr T was deemed to be totally incapacitated 
in July 2020, it doesnt mean I doubt he may now be totally incapacitated. But as Ive set 
out above, the key consideration is whether that conclusion could reasonably have been 
reached in July 2020, and I dont think it could.
I realise this will come as a serious disappointment to Mr T, but based on the evidence 
Ive been presented with, I cannot reasonably conclude Wesleyan acted unfairly in 
declining his claim. As such, I do not uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr T and Wesleyan to provide any additional evidence and/or information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Wesleyan accepted my provisional 
decision. But Mr T disagreed. 
In summary, Mr T said it was unfair for his claim to be declined as his incapacity was 
ultimately linked to his Covid infection, which predated his policy ending. He explained 
that his treating specialists confirmed that his diagnosis with hyposplenism was 
secondary to his Covid infection. He also noted there had been a delay in receiving a 
diagnosis as outpatient appointments had been cancelled during the height of the 
pandemic. He considered that his claim should be accepted on the basis that his 
incapacity could be linked to the infection he had during the period of cover. He 
explained hed taken out the policy to provide financial protection in the event of a 
health catastrophe such as the one he has now experienced.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ts points, but I remain of the view that the evidence does not 
support that he met the policy definition of Permanent Total Disability during the policy term. 
While Im naturally sympathetic to Mr Ts situation I could only fairly and reasonably tell 
Wesleyan to pay a claim if the policy terms had been met during the period of cover. 
I have no doubt that Mr Ts ill-health relates to his Covid infection in early 2020. But as I set 
out in my provisional decision, the key to this case is not whether Mr Ts diagnosed condition started during the term of cover, but rather whether he was judged to be totally and 
permanently unable to perform his occupation during the period of cover. 
From the evidence presented, it seems that both Mr T and his treating practitioners did not 
judge his incapacity to be permanent until sometime after cover had ended. Medical 
evidence from the months after the policy ended demonstrate that it was still hoped and 
expected that Mr T would return to work, even as late as August 2021. Treatment options 
were also still being considered. As such, the evidence did not support that Mr Ts incapacity 
was permanent before cover ended. While it later became apparent that such a return would 
not be possible, Wesleyan was only required to consider Mr Ts claim while cover was in 
force  i.e. up to 23 July 2020. It would not be expected to pay any claim if the policy 
definition was met outside the policy term. 
Ive also considered Mr Ts concerns that his hyposplenism diagnosis was delayed due to 
the impact of the pandemic. Again, while I do not doubt this may have been the case, I have 
seen no evidence to suggest that, but for the pandemic, Mr T would have received a 
diagnosis within the period of cover. And ultimately, I consider that to be key here. 
Mr T has argued that him receiving a diagnosis of hyposplenism should have proved his 
inability to perform the duties of his occupation. This is because once it was known his 
spleen was not functioning, he would be advised to stop working as a consultant 
cardiologist, as it would be judged too high a risk for him to continue in his role due to the 
significantly increased risk of infection to himself. But given his inability to work would be 
based on the diagnosis itself, and not Mr Ts symptoms at the time, the relevant factor is 
when the hyposplenism diagnosis was reached. Theres nothing within the evidence to 
suggest that Mr T could or should have been diagnosed with hyposplenism before 
23 July 2020. In fact, it appears the diagnosis could only be reached after Mr T sadly 
suffered repeated infections that were resistant to antibiotic treatment, which didnt happen 
until after the policy had ended.  
In summary, having carefully considered everything Ive been presented with, I remain of the 
view that the evidence does not support that Mr T met the policy definition of Permanent 
Total Disability before cover ended on 23 July 2020. As such, I cannot reasonably conclude 
Wesleyan acted unfairly in declining his claim. 
So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. And for the 
reasons explained I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Wesleyan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman