DRN-3432439
The complaint
Miss H complains that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in raising the credit limit on her
account.
What happened
Miss H opened a credit card account with MBNA in 2016. The opening credit limit was
£3,600. She transferred balances from elsewhere, on a 0% interest promotion. In March
2017, MBNA offered to increase the credit limit to £5,200. Miss H asked for a limit of £4,100
instead and this was agreed. Shortly afterwards, Miss H asked MBNA to increase the credit
limit to £6,500. MBNA didnt agree to that but increased it to £5,200.
In July 2017, Miss H exceed the credit limit and MBNA withdrew the promotional interest
rate. The following month, Miss H made a payment to the account which cleared the
balance. She then stayed well within the credit limit until October 2018.
In 2019, Miss H contacted MBNA and explained that she was in financial difficulty. A
payment arrangement was put in place for three months from October 2019 and this was
extended by a further three months. MBNA closed the account in April 2020. I understand
that Miss H continues to make payments under an arrangement.
In 2020, Miss H made a complaint to MBNA. She said it had been irresponsible in increasing
her credit limit. She said that shed been using her card for expenses such as food shopping
and petrol and had only been making the minimum monthly payments. She said she was
able to maintain the minimum payments while her account was on a promotional rate. But
that, when the promotion expired, the minimum payments became unaffordable. MBNA said
it had made checks before increasing the credit limit and hadnt seen anything to suggest the
increased credit would be unaffordable for Miss H. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss H wasnt happy with MBNAs response and brought her complaint to this service. I 
issued a provisional decision on 15 March 2022. MBNA agreed with my provisional outcome 
and Miss H confirmed that she had nothing further to add. Im now making a final decision on 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to decide this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
There are industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases for
credit cards. In line with these, Id expect MBNA to have assessed Miss Hs creditworthiness
and considered how her financial situation might be adversely affected before significantly
increasing her credit limit. It needed to carry out checks which were proportionate to things
like the amount of credit being offered (or applied for), what it already knew about Miss H
and the information she had provided about her financial situation. However, there is no set
list of checks which MBNA had to do.
Im satisfied that MBNA carried out some checks before increasing Miss Hs credit limit. It
says there was no adverse information on Miss Hs credit file at the time of the increases
and Im satisfied that was the case. Im also satisfied that her account was being well
managed before the credit limit increases.
The increase to the credit limit started off as a proactive increase which was instigated by
MBNA. So when Miss H requested a lower amount (£4,100, instead of the £5,200 being
offered), it was automatically approved. But, because Miss H then requested a higher limit of
£6,500 (more than had been pre-approved), MBNA says that a manual affordability
assessment took place. Im satisfied that MBNA did apply some scrutiny to Miss Hs
application, as it declined her request for credit of £6,500 and only agreed to lend £5,200.
But Im not persuaded that it did enough in the circumstances to reasonably conclude that
increasing the credit limit would be affordable for Miss H.
MBNA says that, at the time of the increase, it carried out a credit risk and affordability
assessment. It says that the amount of her outstanding balances was less than half of her
borrowing limits and that she scored well on her overall level of indebtedness. It also says
that she had been managing her MBNA account well. But, given the amount of Miss Hs
overall debt compared to her declared income, Im not satisfied that the information available
to MBNA indicated that she could manage a higher level of borrowing.
I think its relevant that Miss H initially sought a lower credit limit than what was being offered
but, the day after it was approved, requested a higher limit. I note that her declared income
changed slightly from the initial application to the first credit limit increase and again from the
first increase to the second increase. In light of this, and Miss Hs overall indebtedness, I
think MBNA should have made further checks before increasing the credit limit.
Miss H says that her pattern of spending meant that increasing the credit limit was
irresponsible, as she was using the credit card to pay for monthly expenses such as food
shopping and petrol. I dont think the nature of the spending on her card ought to have given
MBNA cause for concern at the time. There does appear to have been some spending on
groceries. But I havent seen any evidence that the card was being used to pay priority bills
at the time and I dont think there was anything in the spending pattern to suggest financial
difficulty. Equally, I dont think that paying the minimum amount (or close to the minimum
amount) each month necessarily indicated that further borrowing wouldnt be affordable.
But the fact that Miss H appeared to be managing her finances well and keeping on top of
her debts didnt necessarily mean that further lending would be affordable or sustainable. At
the time of the credit limit increase, the amount Miss H owed on other unsecured borrowing
was close to the amount of her salary. That was in addition to her mortgage. Even if the
existing debts appeared to be well managed, there does come a point where the level of
debt cant keep being increased without consequences. Im not satisfied that MBNA did
enough at the time to ensure that further borrowing would be affordable. So I cant conclude
that it made a fair lending decision when it increased the credit limit.
But Im looking at the situation impartially and I think there are some other relevant factors
here. For example, it was Miss H who requested the further credit limit increase, after a limit
of £4,100 had been agreed. I note that her account was well managed and she stayed well
within her credit limit from August 2017 to October 2018. It wasnt until around June 2019
that she contacted MBNA to say she was in financial difficulty. She called back in September
2019 and thats when the payment arrangement was set up. Ive listened to these calls andMiss H explained that the reason she was having difficulties was down to over-spending.
Ive also thought about what Miss H says about the minimum payments becoming
unaffordable after the promotional interest rate ended. But the promotional rate was
withdrawn because Miss H exceeded her credit limit in July 2017. It would otherwise have
remained in place for around nine more months and so Miss H could have had the benefit of
it for longer if shed remained within her limit.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think MBNA should refund interest and charges applied to 
any balance over £4,100 from 27 March 2017 (the date the credit limit was set at £4,100). 
The refund should be applied to any remaining outstanding balance. But if adjusting the 
interest and charges results in there no longer being an outstanding balance, any surplus 
should be treated as an overpayment and paid to Miss H along with 8% simple interest.
I dont think MBNA needs to change the way it reported the account to the Credit Reference
Agencies, as Im satisfied that it told Miss H in the 2019 calls how her credit file would be
affected and she understood this. And, taking all of the above into account, I dont think
MBNA needs to pay Miss H compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should:
refund interest and charges applied to any balance over £4,100 from 27 March 2017
onwards;
apply the refund to any remaining outstanding balance on Miss Hs account;
if this results in there no longer being an outstanding balance, the surplus should be
treated as an overpayment and paid to Miss H with simple interest at 8% a year from
the date of the overpayment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman