DRN-2961141
The complaint
Mrs C had the benefit of a private medical insurance  heartbeat  policy underwritten by
BUPA Insurance Limited (the policy).
Mrs C is unhappy that she was required to pay her full monthly premiums although BUPA
wasnt able to provide a full range of services as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Shes
also unhappy with the quote she received when the policy was due for renewal and that
certain information wasnt set out in the renewal notice.
What happened
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. This meant BUPA policy holders
werent able to access routine and non-urgent treatment.
Mrs C says its unfair that she was required to pay her full monthly premiums for her medical
insurance during this time, as the policy wasnt providing the full range of cover, she was
paying for. She wanted BUPA to reimburse her a significant percentage of the premiums
shed paid for two months at the start of the pandemic.
BUPA declined to do so. However, in May 2020, it told Mrs C about its pledge to pass back
any exceptional financial benefit it ultimately receives as a result of Covid-19 to its UK health
insurance customers  either by way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs
pledge). And when the likely impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is clearer it said it would
update Mrs C on how it will do this. BUPA has also said that it would commission a third-
party review to ensure that what it does is fair and reasonable across its different customer
groups. Mrs C didnt think that approach was fair.
Mrs Cs policy was due to renew on 14 June 2020 and she received a renewal notice the
month before, in May 2020. Shes also unhappy with the quote she received to renew the
policy. She says the annual premium shes been quoted was around £1,500 more than what
shed paid the year before. And, as a result, she decided not to renew the policy.
After Mrs C brought her complaint to our Service, BUPA confirmed to us that the premium
Mrs C was quoted was around 30% more than the premium paid the year before. And while
there had been some disruption in the private sector in the months leading up to the renewal
of Mrs Cs policy BUPA said it had looked at its claims costs over a longer period to predict 
the cost of future claims when pricing policies.
Having considered everything, our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs concerns. Mrs C
disagreed.
After our investigator issued her view, BUPA wrote to Mrs C  in March 2021 - confirming
that it had undertaken a review as part of BUPAs pledge. As a result, if eligible, BUPA told
Mrs C that shell receive a rebate of up to one months premium at some point between April
and July 2021, relevant to the premiums shed paid for the policy during the period when
treatment was most disrupted. Mrs C didnt think that was fair.
Although, this wasnt part of the original complaint Mrs C brought to our Service (because it
hadnt arisen at that time), as it was closely connected to the concerns shed raised, BUPA 
did agree for our Service to consider this issue as part of this complaint.
Mrs Cs complaint was then passed to me consider everything afresh to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in July 2021 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
Not refunding monthly premiums when requested in May 2020:
In May 2020, BUPA didnt agree to Mrs Cs request to refund 90% of two monthly premiums
shed paid for the policy.
I can understand Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this  and I know shell be very
disappointed  but I dont think the position taken by BUPA was unfair or unreasonable in
the circumstances of this complaint. I set out my reasons below.
I accept that during 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to 
support the NHSs response to the pandemic. Understandably, this temporarily 
affected the ability for BUPA members to access the full range of services usually 
available  including Mrs C. This was due to the unprecedented and unforeseen 
impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accepts that routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed as a result of the pandemic. But BUPA has also said that it put in place other 
benefits to support its customers at this time  including, where possible, arranging 
remote consultations with appropriate medical. It also says that diagnostics tests 
were taking place at clinics. In the absence of anything to the contrary, Im prepared 
to accept what BUPA says based on my knowledge of the type of services BUPA 
was able to provide at the time. Im therefore persuaded that Mrs Cs policy was 
capable of benefitting her during this time.
Mrs C says she felt prevented from claiming under the policy in or around April 2020 
because of the restrictions in the service BUPA was able to provide at the time. But I 
understand that she didnt actually contact BUPA for assistance then because, she 
says, even if she had, she didnt think it wouldve been able to help at the time.
However, Im not persuaded that BUPA wouldnt have been able to assist. BUPA has
said that inpatient and outpatient care was still being offered (although significantly
restricted) and that if a customer had contacted it to make a claim, they wouldve
been assisted in doing so. Ive also listened to a call recording dated around 22 May
2020 between BUPAs representative and Mrs C (and her husband, Mr C). Ill refer to
this as the call. During the call Mrs C is told that the consultant she usually sees
was available throughout the start of the pandemic. Even if her consultant had been
asked to cover other areas, and Mrs C needed to see another consultant from the
same medical field, this wouldve been covered. So, if Mrs C had contacted BUPA in
or around April, Im not persuaded that it wouldnt have sought to assist her under the
policy  particularly if she needed treatment urgently.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPA was willing to financially support 
customers whod seen a reduction in income due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During 
the call, BUPAs representative offered to put Mrs C through another team to discuss available options if she was experiencing financial hardship. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. But after being told that this wouldnt include a rebate of premiums paid, 
Mr and Mrs C opted to raise a complaint instead. Had Mr C been transferred to 
another team, depending on his financial situation, I think its likely other financial 
options wouldve been discussed.
Mrs C was told about BUPAs pledge in April 2020 and again in BUPAs final 
response letter dated late May 2020; that if it saw a reduction in the claims it pays for 
customers overall, its committed to pass back to eligible customers any exceptional 
financial benefit it has made arising as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think 
BUPAs intended course of action was reasonable  particularly as, as of the end of 
May 2020, the effects of the pandemic were ongoing and the impact uncertain.
Premium increase:
BUPA has been able to provide us with details about the way in which the quote Mrs C
received to renew the policy in May 2020 was calculated.
Once the base rate of the scheme is calculated, the annual premium Mrs C paid for the
policy is influenced by individual factors; namely her location and claims history. Its for
BUPA to determine which factors it takes into account when pricing its medical
insurance policies. And I dont think the factors its mentioned are out of line with the industry
norm, or inherently unfair or unreasonable.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the annual premium was partly influenced by
an increase in the base rate that year. And that the base rate increase wouldve been the
same for all members of BUPA heartbeat branded policies with the same age as Mrs C,
whod opted for her level of policy and policy excess.
I can also see that there was a percentage increase taking into account Mrs Cs location and
because of her claims history in the year immediately before the policy was due to renew.
When a policyholder makes a claim on a policy, its not unusual for this to have an impact on
the cost of the policy the year after and so I dont think this was unreasonable.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the annual premium Mrs C was quoted for the
insurance year June 2020 to June 2021 was fair and reasonable  and in line with the
factors BUPA takes into account when pricing this type of policy.
However, Mrs C is also unhappy that she wasnt reminded about the BUPA pledge in the
renewal notice. But Im not persuaded BUPA needed to include reference to BUPAs pledge
in the renewal notice. There wasnt a regulatory requirement for it to do so.
Further, Mrs C was made aware of BUPAs pledge in April 2020 and the final response letter
sent to her on 29 May 2020, which was over two weeks before the date the policy was due
to renew. And if Mrs C had any queries about the renewal quote, or how the quote shed
received related to BUPAs pledge, she was free to contact BUPA at the time to discuss.
BUPAs review and the sum being reimbursed to Mrs C:
Mrs C isnt happy with BUPAs offer to reimburse her an amount up to one months premium,
if shes eligible.
Ive looked carefully at all the evidence before me and Im satisfied that there had been an
overall reduction in the claims made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies.However, non-urgent treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve
still needed to have been delivered and funded by BUPA at some point/later date, once
private facilities were no longer needed by the NHS to treat patients. As such, Im satisfied
that its likely that the costs of such treatments were simply delayed to a later date.
Im also conscious that BUPA commissioned a third party to ensure that the way in which it
shares out the rebate is fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers
and it was satisfied with its intended course of action. That third party is independent of
BUPA.
It is not in dispute that the approach taken by BUPA has been independently verified by the
third party. I note that the third party has said (as taken from BUPAs website) that:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
BUPA has said that rebate payments will be relative to the premiums eligible customers paid
when treatment was most disrupted due to independent hospitals and medical staff
supporting the NHS; between 23 March and 30 September 2020 (the qualifying period).
I understand that Mrs C had the benefit of the policy up to mid-June 2020 when it lapsed,
having not been renewed. That means, if eligible, and based on the approach taken by
BUPA to meet BUPAs pledge, Mrs C is likely to receive a pro-rata share of the one months
premium in proportion to the period shed paid for the policy during the qualifying period
(around 12 weeks). I think thats in line with what BUPA told Mrs C in its letter to her dated
March 2020 and fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Particularly, as
the policy lapsed in mid-June 2020. So, Mrs C wasnt paying her monthly premiums
throughout the qualifying period when private treatment was most disrupted.
However, Mrs C says she hasnt yet received a rebate from BUPA or any further
correspondence from BUPA about how much shell receive. I note that BUPA has said it
hopes to contact and pay all eligible customers a rebate before the end of July 2021. That
date has yet to pass. If Mrs C has any questions about the rebate, she should contact
BUPA.
BUPA has also committed to carrying out a final review in due course to ensure it has met
BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint given
that the pandemic is ongoing, and its full impact is still unknown.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision:
BUPA didnt object to my provisional findings. Mrs C didnt add anything further about the 
issues Id considered.However, she did say that shed now been sent a letter by BUPA confirming the rebate 
payment shed receive. Mrs C was concerned that the amount wasnt equivalent to one 
months premium shed paid for the policy.
Our Service requested further information from BUPA and it confirmed that as Mrs C didnt 
have the benefit of the policy throughout the qualifying period, it was right that she was only 
entitled to receive a pro-rata payment of one months premium in proportion to the amount of 
time she was paying for the policy during the qualifying period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no reason 
for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional decision. So, 
for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
I know Mrs C is concerned about the rebate payment shes received from BUPA. As set out 
in my provisional decision, BUPA has said that rebate payments will be relative to the 
premiums eligible customers paid when treatment was most disrupted due to independent 
hospitals and medical staff supporting the NHS during qualifying period.
The amount has been calculated in line with that approach  which has been verified by an 
independent third party. And, so, I dont think the amount BUPA has said it will pay Mrs C is 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Mrs C has confirmed that she received a rebate of around £176. Mrs C didnt 
renew her policy when it ended on 13 June 2020, so shed had the benefit of  and paid for  
the policy for around 43% of qualifying period. And Im persuaded that the sum of £176 is 
around 43% of the monthly premium shed paid for the policy leading up to and during the 
start of the qualifying period. 
I explained this to the parties before issuing my final decision and invited them to make any 
further comments. BUPA confirmed the basis of the calculation was correct. And Mrs C 
didnt reply. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman