DRN-3160064
The complaint
Miss B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave her loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans MoneyBoat provided to Miss B as follows:
Loan 
numberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1 23/10/2020 30/04/2021 6 £600 £193.62
2 06/05/2021 outstanding 6 £1,300 £388.42
Our adjudicator didnt think it was unfair for MoneyBoat to have provided loan 1 to Miss B but 
said (in summary):
the repayments for loan 2 represented a significant proportion of Miss Bs income 
and this meant that there was a significant risk that Miss B wouldnt have been able 
to make the repayments on this loan without having to borrow again, making the 
lending unsustainable for her, and
Miss Bs credit commitments shown on the credit report MoneyBoat obtained showed 
she would need to spend more than the amount of disposable income MoneyBoat 
had calculated Miss B would have available to repay this loan on top of her existing 
debt.
So our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Miss B and upheld 
this part of her complaint. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that it queried her assertion about 
the loan repayment being a significant proportion of income and that Miss B had 
demonstrated ample disposable income to service the loan.
So, as the complaint isnt yet settled, it comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have taken all this 
into consideration and having done so, I am upholding Miss Bs complaint for broadly the 
same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Before lending to Miss B, MoneyBoat 
asked her for details of her income and normal expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out 
checks on Miss Bs credit file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that, on the basis of the 
information Miss B told MoneyBoat about her income and outgoings and what MoneyBoat 
had recorded about her financial situation, it wasnt wrong for MoneyBoat to give her loan 1 . 
It was early in the lending relationship and given the loan amount and the information 
MoneyBoat had recorded for Miss B, I think the checks it did prior to providing this loan were 
enough for MoneyBoat to agree to lend. As Miss B hasnt raised any specific objection to the 
adjudicators recommendation not to uphold this loan, I dont think that I need to say more 
about it.
I agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Miss Bs case, 
MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. 
I say this because when Miss B asked for loan 2, MoneyBoats records show it relied on 
information showing that Miss Bs income was £1,450. The repayment she needed to make 
when she took out this loan (around £388) worked out at around 26% of her take home pay 
just for this loan alone  and MoneyBoat was aware that she had other credit debt that she 
needed to pay as well. This would mean that Miss B faced having to pay well over half of her 
total take home pay towards meeting her credit commitments. I think that was a clear 
warning sign that her dependency on credit was excessive having regard to her income. And that concern was borne out by other information MoneyBoat could see showing Miss Bs 
revolving credit balance to limit ratio was now 102%  in other words, she was over her 
credit limit on cards and had more than used the available credit they offered.  
And like our adjudicator, I think theres a further reason why MoneyBoat shouldnt have 
provided this loan to Miss B. MoneyBoat thought that Miss B would have around £650 
disposable income out of which to make the monthly repayments for its loan. But the credit 
monthly repayments shown on the credit report MoneyBoat acquired when Miss B applied 
for this loan amounted to more than £500 per month  and this didnt include payments 
towards her revolving credit debt. So after allowing for the monthly repayment she was 
signing up to pay for this loan, MoneyBoat shouldve realised that she would need to spend 
at least £888 on servicing debt  which was more than the amount of disposable income it 
had calculated she had available to spend when working out its affordability assessment.  
I think MoneyBoat, as a responsible lender, should have been aware that she was unlikely to 
be able to make the monthly repayments in a way that would be sustainably affordable. So 
MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Miss B. And for these reasons, Im upholding 
Miss Bs complaint about this loan.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Miss B, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Miss B and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, she may have decided to approach a third-
party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less 
borrowing). But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to 
such a lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or 
may not have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and charges on 
a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
If MoneyBoat has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, fees and charges 
on loan 2, not including anything already refundedB. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss B originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
C. remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
If this results in Miss B having made overpayments, you should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. You should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D.  If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. You shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off.
E.  remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint about loan 2 and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman