DRN-2960573
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a curtailment claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a travel insurance policy in November 2019, to cover a trip he planned to take 
between 20 and 28 March 2020. As part of his trip, he intended to travel to a country Ill call 
T.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but 
essential travel abroad.
Mr M says he tried to call AXA to get advice about whether or not to travel but couldnt get 
through. He also says that at that point, Ts borders were open to international travel and 
that the British Embassy suggested he should be able to travel as planned. So Mr M flew 
abroad on 20 March 2020.
However, on 23 March 2020, the UK government advised all travellers abroad that they 
should return to the UK. On 24 March 2020, Mr Ms airline let him know that it had cancelled 
his booked return flight. And on 25 March 2020, Ts government announced it was closing its 
borders to international travellers. So Mr M decided to cut short his trip. He booked a new 
flight back to the UK and returned on 26 March 2020. He made a claim for the costs 
associated with cutting short his trip.
AXA turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims if a policyholder 
had travelled against FCDO advice. In this case, the FCDO had advised against all but 
essential travel three days before Mr M departed on his trip. So it said the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy terms.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy 
included optional Travel Disruption Cover (TDC) cover which covered curtailment due to a 
change in FCDO advice. But he also noted that Mr M hadnt selected this cover. And he was 
satisfied that the policy didnt cover claims if a policyholder had travelled against FCDO 
advice. In this case, given the timeline of events, he felt Mr M had travelled after the FCDO 
had advised against all but essential travel. So he thought it was fair for AXA to turn down 
the claim.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt the FCDO 
exclusion had been hidden in the small print. Hed also tried to get through to AXA to confirm 
whether or not he should travel. He considered we should seek to reform insurers. He also 
said that his trip had been essential  what was essential to him may not be the same as 
what AXA considers to be essential.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and we dont undertake 
industry reviews or reforms. Our role is to consider specific complaints brought by individual 
consumers to decide if a financial business has done something wrong, and if so, whether it 
needs to take any action to put things right.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms and the available evidence, to decide whether AXA treated Mr M fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AXA. Mr M cut short his trip and he hadnt taken out the TDC, so strictly his 
claim would appropriately be considered under the Cancellation or Curtailment Charges 
section of the policy. This provides the following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if
b) the trip is curtailed before completion.
Changes to FCDO advice isnt one of the listed, insured events AXA covers under this 
section. It seems though that AXA did look at Mr Ms claim as if hed taken out TDC. The 
cancellation and curtailment provisions under this section do include cover for changes to 
FCDO advice, although the curtailment cover specifically relates to the advice changing after 
a policyholder has arrived at their destination.
The policy also includes a list of specific, general exclusions. One of these says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly/indirectly from:
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are 
travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
In this case, theres no dispute that the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad 
on 17 March 2020. This meant that UK nationals shouldnt travel abroad unless for essential 
reasons. Mr M didnt travel until three days later though. And while I cant pinpoint with any 
certainty the reasons why Mr M cut his trip short, there do seem to have been a number of 
factors  the FCDO advice against travel; the UK governments advice for travellers to return 
to the UK the day before the airline cancelled Mr Ms flight and the airlines decision to 
suspend operations. Mr M has also referred to Ts governments decision to close its 
borders. Taking these factors into account then, I think it was fair for AXA to conclude Mr Ms 
claim fell within the scope of the exclusion clause.I appreciate Mr M says he tried to call AXA for advice; that he spoke to the British Embassy 
and that he researched whether there were any travel restrictions in T. This suggests to me 
though that Mr M was most likely aware of the FCDO advice against travel on 17 March 
2020 and was therefore in a position to make a decision about whether or not to cancel his 
trip. And while he may have considered his trip to have been for essential reasons, I have no 
evidence to show what those reasons were or why Mr M needed to travel urgently. So I dont 
think I could fairly ask AXA to pay the claim on these grounds.
AXA told us that it did look into whether Mr Ms claim should be considered under the TDC 
cancellation cover. But it noted that the hotel Mr M was due to stay in on 27 and 28 March 
2020 had allowed free cancellation up until 20 March 2020. So if Mr M had cancelled the 
booking following the issuing of the FCDO guidance, he wouldnt have incurred any costs. 
Ive independently checked the booking and agree this was the case. Ive also noted that the 
booking for 26 March 2020 would fall below the policy excess. And AXAs pointed out that as 
Mr Ms airline cancelled his pre-booked return flight, the airline should be liable for refunding 
the cost of the flight. I think this was a reasonable position for AXA to take. The cancellation 
TDC section only covers unused, pre-booked costs. It doesnt include additional flight costs. 
So Mr Ms new return flight costs would fall outside of the scope of policy cover. Id add that 
as the FCDO advice didnt change while Mr M was in T, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
tell AXA to pay Mr Ms claim under the TDC curtailment cover either.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate hes been left out of pocket, 
I find it was fair and reasonable for AXA to turn down his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman