DRN-3811222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (C&G) has declined their claims for treatment of their dog on the ground that the 
conditions claimed for were pre-existing and are therefore excluded by their policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs dog, who Ill refer to as A, was insured by C&G from 5 February 2019.
 
On 16 December 2021, A was taken to the vet and was diagnosed as suffering from 
haemorrhagic gastroenteritis (HGE) for which he received treatment and supportive care. Mr 
and Mrs C submitted a claim to C&G for the cost of this treatment.
On 24 December 2021, A wasnt able to get up and he was again taken to the vets, who 
suspected that he might be suffering from pyrexia. He was admitted to hospital but ultimately 
and sadly the decision was made that he should be euthanised. Mr and Mrs C also 
submitted a claim for the associated veterinary costs.
After having looked at As veterinary history, C&G declined Mr and Mrs Cs claims. It noted 
that A had had an episode of vomiting on 9 March 2015 and of soft stools in February 2017, 
both of which pre-dated the inception of their policy. It referred to the following terms of the 
policy:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
A Pre-Existing Condition is defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
C&G maintains that As treatment for HGE in December 2021 was related to As episode of 
vomiting in 2015 and was therefore a pre-existing condition. It therefore added the following 
endorsement to Mr and Mrs Cs policy:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Digestive System with effect from 05 
February 2021.
This endorsement was in line with C&Gs underwriting criteria in relation to vomiting.
 
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with C&Gs rejection of their claims and brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld their complaint as she didnt consider that C&G had asked a clear 
question about As previous medical history at the policy inception, so it wasnt fair for it to 
add the retrospective endorsement. 
C&G doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill give my reasons.
Ive considered whether or not C&G has acted fairly in adding the endorsement upon which 
it relies to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim. 
I dont consider that Mr and Mrs C were asked any direct questions about As medical history 
when they took out their policy. They therefore didnt misrepresent As health. C&G cant 
therefore rely on the remedy available to it under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), to retrospectively add an endorsement or exclusion it 
wouldve applied at policy inception had it known about a pre-existing medical condition at 
that time.
But in my view its clear from the policy terms that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical 
conditions, and C&G can rely upon its right under the General Exclusion that Ive quoted 
above to add an endorsement should a claim be made for a condition that was pre-existing 
at policy inception.
But that right has to be exercised fairly. That requires there to be sufficient evidence of a 
connection between the condition claimed for and one that had happened or has shown 
Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the 
Waiting Period. The endorsement must also relate to the pre-existing condition in 
accordance with C&Gs underwriting criteria.
I dont consider that C&G has done enough to establish a connection between As vomiting 
in 2015 and the diagnosis of HGE in December 2021.There was no formal diagnosis of any 
reason for As vomiting in 2015. As vet has stated as follows:
I was involvement in the treatment of [A] during his hospitalisation in December 2021. 
He presented for collapse, haemorrhagic diarrhoea and pyrexia of unknown origin. A 
diagnosis was not established. He did not present for vomiting. The presented in 
December 2021 is not related to the single episode of vomiting [A] was seen for in 
March 2015. (sic)
I also dont consider that a single episode of vomiting in 2015 could reasonably be described 
as a pre-existing condition. It appears to have been a one-off event. It could well just have 
been due to something A ate.
In the statement quoted above, the vet has described As pyrexia as being of unknown 
origin. In As notes the vet has also noted pyrexia  origin currently unknown, possibly 
related to recent HGE episode  his case appears to be more complex than just a 
gastroenteritis. The endorsement added by C&G doesnt cover pyrexia, and C&G hasnt claimed a direct connection between As pyrexia in 2021 and his vomiting in 2015 or any 
other pre-existing condition. 
My conclusion is:
(1) that in relation to Mr and Mrs Cs claim for As treatment for HGE in December 2021, 
there is no evidence that this condition was connected to his vomiting in 2015, and 
that it was unfair and unreasonable for C&G to have added the endorsement upon 
which it seeks to rely to decline their claim; and
(2) that Mr and Mrs Cs claim for the treatment of As pyrexia of unknown origin was also 
unfairly declined as it wasnt connected to any pre-existing condition or excluded by 
any endorsement.
Im therefore going to require C&G to settle both claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Cs 
claims subject to the other terms and conditions of their policy. If Mr and Mrs C have already 
paid to the vet any part of the sum claimed, this should be reimbursed to them.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs 
C  interest on any sum so paid to them by way of reimbursement at the simple rate of 8% 
from the date they made payment to the date that payment is made to them.
 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if Mr and 
Mrs C ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman