DRN-3188272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim they made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system which they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a firm of solicitors which Ill call R.
Background
In or around January 2016 Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2019 R made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. R said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. R said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding. 
Additional savings would be made from other items installed such as a voltage 
optimiser. 
The monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the feed in tariff (FIT) payments. 
The FIT would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement repayments. 
P used pressured sale tactics by staying at Mr and Mrs Ts property for over 2 hours.
Shawbrook issued a final response saying that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
R didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The paperwork says that the system will pay for itself within a 17-year period, but that is 
not the case. 
Mr and Mrs T are unsophisticated consumers and P ought to have known that their 
assumptions and calculations were overly optimistic.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T on the one hand and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as 
an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering 
whether there were any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ts recollection of 
the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Self-funding
Mr and Mrs T say they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs T have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs T could expect to 
receive a total FIT income in year one of £170.31.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs T could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings total £291.82 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs T, the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £627.25. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
A section under the heading Repayments has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the length of the 
loan that Mr and Mrs T entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 
monthly payments of £89.70 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the 
system, averaged over a monthly basis, against the agreed loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that they were told that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected benefits from the system against 
the loan payments. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start; 
I think the quote shows clearly that in the early years the monthly loan repayments would be 
greater than the expected income.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs 
T could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, I believe that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would pay for itself 
by year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I 
were persuaded that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs T. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system was expected to produce 2,499 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs T FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,798.80 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data from 2006 to 2015 to calculate the utility 
price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020. 
The increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain 
why Mr and Mrs T havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been 
expecting from the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 and 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and 
Mrs T could have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs T 
entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman