DRN-4253367
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a hire purchase agreement he took out with BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr T was supplied with a used car under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £2,279.04 and the agreement was for £41,869.96 
over 49 months; with 48 payments of £672.16 and a final optional payment of £20,721.47. At 
the time of supply the car was just under five years old and had done 34,000 miles.
Mr T says that, although the finance was taken out in his name, the car was for his son and 
the credit broker who arranged the finance was aware of this.
Mr T was purchasing a series of investment properties and he was refused a mortgage due 
to the level of his indebtedness. Unhappy with this, he complained to BMW that the 
agreement was misrepresented to him - he says he wasnt made aware of the credit 
implications and risks involved with taking out credit in his own name, and he says he would 
never have taken out credit for his children had he known the impact it would have. Given 
this, Mr T wanted the agreement to be transferred into his sons name.
BMW didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and didnt agree to transfer the agreement. So, Mr T 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator explained that, under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), 
any negotiations between Mr T and the credit broker are deemed to have been conducted by 
them as an agent of the lender, in this instance BMW. Which means that, if the agreement 
was misrepresented, then BMW should do something to put things right.
However, the investigator thought the agreement Mr T signed made it clear that the credit 
reference agencies would record the agreement and how Mr T managed the payments. She 
also thought that, given his previous history of taking out credit, Mr T would be reasonably 
aware that his level of borrowing would have some impact on his credit file. So, she didnt 
think that the agreement had been misrepresented.
The investigator also said that the agreement was clear that Mr T was obliged to keep the 
car under his possession and control, and that he was not to take the finance out on behalf 
of someone else. So, by doing what hed done, which included putting the V5C in his sons 
name, Mr T was in breach of the agreement. The investigator also thought that the credit 
broker was aware the agreement had been set up in such a way as to cause a breach. And 
BMW needed to do something to put things right.
The investigator thought that, as Mr T / his son had continued use of the car, it was only fair 
that they paid for this. So, she didnt think the payments hed made should be refunded to 
him. Nor did she think he should be compensated for any impact on his credit file, for the 
reasons shed already given. But she did think that BMW should collect the car at no cost to 
Mr T ; refund the deposit and statutory interest; limit Mr Ts liability to the payments that had 
already been made (so long as he stopped using the car); make an arrangement with Mr T 
for the missed payments to be paid; and, once any liability had been repaid, unwind the 
agreement and remove it from Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He provided a letter from his financial advisor saying 
that he was unaware of any impact the additional borrowing would have on his credit file; 
and a letter from a mortgage lender stating the reason he was declined was due to 
indebtedness. 
He said that, on the advice of his financial advisor, hed asked BMW to transfer this 
agreement (and another that hed previously taken out on behalf of his son) into his sons 
name, which they wouldnt do, and they never specifically told him that the level of borrowing 
hed taken out might impact his ability to obtain further credit. And, had they told him this, 
then he wouldnt have taken the finance. So, he thought that BMW had failed in their duty of 
care towards him.
Mr T also said that, in October 2022, BMW failed to collect the car and remove the default 
theyd recorded on his credit file, despite having been told this was impacting his ability to 
grow his investment portfolio. And he said it was unfair that he was expected to pay for the 
use of the car when it was unrepairable and because he couldnt obtain finance for a 
replacement car.
Mr T explained that he was now paying an additional £700 a month because he was unable 
to obtain a fixed rate mortgage due to his poor credit rating, as well as explaining the impact 
this has had on him, his wife, and his son. Hes also explained that the car is expensive to 
insure, tax, fuel, and maintain; and that he worries every time he drives it in case hes 
involved in an accident.
Because of this hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
Mr T has complained that the agreement has been misrepresented. When looking at 
complaints about misrepresentation, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false 
statement of fact and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr 
T to choose this particular loan.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr T signed, along with the supporting documentation 
that he was provided. And I think the following parts of the documentation are key to this 
complaint:
Your obligations in relation to the use of the vehicleYour key obligations will be: 
2) to keep the vehicle in your possession and control. You must not take out the 
credit agreement on behalf of someone else.
What are the consequences of missing payments or breaking other terms of 
the agreement?
Missing payments or breaking other terms of the agreement could have serious 
consequences. We will report missed payments to the credit reference agencies, 
which may make it more difficult and expensive for you to obtain credit from us or 
other lenders.
If you do not keep up your repayments or break another obligation in the agreement, 
we may become entitled to terminate the agreement and recover possession of the 
vehicle.
Use of your Information  What the credit reference agencies will do:
a) Credit reference agencies will record the details that we give them about this 
agreement and how you manage it including the personal information you provide 
to us. If you do not repay in full and on time, they will record the outstanding debt. 
Account information given to these agencies remains on file for 6 years after the 
account is closed, whether settled by you or upon default.
Your Care of the Vehicle
Until the Vehicle is returned to us at the end of the agreement or you become the 
owner of the Vehicle, you must: 
(g) keep the Vehicle in your possession and under your control and not  allow 
someone other than you to become registered at the [DVLA] as the Vehicles 
registered keeper.
General Terms
(b) you must not transfer this agreement to anyone, as it is personal to you.
In signing the agreement, Mr T confirmed that hed read the terms and conditions (including 
those referred to above) and that he agreed to be legally bound by these.
Im satisfied the agreement makes it clear that the credit reference agencies would be 
advised of both the agreement and how it was conducted. And that this would be reported 
against Mr Ts name for the length of the agreement, and up to six years afterwards. I also 
think that its reasonable for someone taking out any form of finance agreement to expect 
this to be the case.
However, I dont think its reasonable to expect a credit broker to explain every possible 
circumstance that might affect every possible customer, at the time and in the future, when 
dealing with an application. And I wouldnt expect them to do this because of both the 
impracticalities of covering all the potential options, and the excessive amount of time doing 
so would take. Instead, I would only expect them to provide the information relevant to 
agreement being taken (which in this case they did), and only discuss wider implications if 
asked, or if specific information was provided that would make this necessary.I havent seen anything to show me that Mr T discussed his other financial circumstances 
with the credit broker, or that he told the broker he was looking to grow an investment 
property portfolio and needed to maintain a credit profile that would allow for this. Whats 
more, Mr T hasnt said that this was the case, or that his wider financial circumstances were 
raised with the credit broker and discussed.
I appreciate that, in his email of 18 July 2023, Mr Ts financial advisor said that Mr T was 
unaware that his level of personal debt in relation to his income could have a negative effect 
on him being able to obtain further secured or unsecured credit. And that the agreement with 
BMW had the biggest impact on his credit file. But this doesnt mean that the credit broker 
shouldve assumed Mr Ts circumstances and that, at some point in the future, Mr T may be 
declined a mortgage on an investment property because his debt to income ratio fell outside 
of one particular lenders risk profile that was in place at the time.
Given the above, Im satisfied there was no false statement of fact regarding the agreement, 
and how Mr T managed payments to this, being recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
And, as there was no false statement of fact, then the agreement wasnt misrepresented.
Notwithstanding this, its not disputed that Mr T explained to the credit broker that he was 
financing a car on behalf of his son  something which Mr T has explained that hes done for 
all his children. And this is one of two cars that Mr T financed for his son. While the 
agreement is clear that this is not acceptable, and would be classified as a breach, I can 
understand why Mr T believed these terms werent applicable in his particular circumstance.
However, I dont think this would mean that Mr T would reasonably expect the agreement 
not to appear on his credit file, as the agreement was, and remained, in his name.
Mr Ts financial advisor has said that Mr Ts level of unsecured debt had risen from around 
£40,000 in December 2021 to around £101,000 in March 2022  mainly as a result of the 
agreements Mr T had taken out for his son. And this was enough for him to be declined for a 
mortgage from a lender who had provided him with a different mortgage a few months 
earlier. And, in an email from the potential mortgage lender to the financial advisor, dated 22 
February 2022, the lender confirmed that due to the high level of customer indebtedness, 
the application cannot proceed.
Mr T has provided a copy of his credit file, dated 22 February 2022, which shows his credit 
score was excellent, but his affordability was very weak. It also shows that Mr T owed over 
£100,000 across 11 different credit accounts and an additional £162,000 over two 
mortgages. While its clear that around half of the non-mortgage debt related to this 
agreement with BMW, this is less than 20% of his overall indebtedness (when mortgages 
are included).
Ive not been provided with any information relating to Mr Ts choice of lenders rules around 
indebtedness, nor have they confirmed that it was only the agreement with BMW that meant 
Mr T failed their lending criteria for an additional mortgage. Whats more, I havent seen 
anything to show me that the agreement with BMW was the sole reason that Mr T hasnt 
been able to obtain a mortgage with any other lender.
In addition to this, its clear that the agreement with BMW is non-transferrable. And, if Mr T 
wanted his son to take over the agreement (and if BMW would agree to a transfer), then his 
son would need to fit BMWs lending criteria. And I think its likely that he wouldnt, otherwise 
Mr T wouldnt have needed to take the agreement in his name in the first place.
As such, Im not satisfied that BMW should compensate Mr T for the wider financial situation 
he now finds himself in.However, as stated above, because the credit broker (acting on behalf of BMW as per the 
CCA) allowed an agreement to be put in place where Mr B was automatically in breach of 
the terms of that agreement, Im satisfied that BMW should do something to put things right.
Putting things right
BMW issued a default notice to Mr M in March 2022, as the car wasnt registered in his 
name. And, as Mr M didnt register the car in his name before the default notice expired, 
once BMW had finished dealing with his complaint in May 2022, they terminated the 
agreement. However, in January 2023, BMW agreed that the agreement would be 
reactivated and the default removed.
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr T said that BMW failed to collect the car in 
October 2022, and that they shouldve removed the default at that point. However, Ive seen 
that Mr T contacted us on 21 October 2022 to advise us hed been visited by a 
representative of BMW and he said theyd accepted they shouldnt have tried to recover the 
car at that point. The call note for this conversation (which says that the call wasnt recorded 
due to a system error) and subsequent email from Mr T also imply that Mr T believed that no 
recovery action should be considered until his complaint with us had been dealt with.
Given this, I cant agree that BMW failed to collect the car in October 2022.
Mr T only paid four payments to the car (February to May 2022). However, the service 
history book shows a service on 17 November 2022 (when the mileage was 46,036 miles) 
and Mr T confirmed that the mileage on the car on 17 May 2023 was 52,257 miles. This 
shows me that Mr T / his son has continued to use the car. 
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr T referred to the car as being unrepairable, 
but he hasnt provided any evidence to show the car is off the road. He also referred to what 
he considered were the excessive costs of driving and maintaining the car. But, despite this, 
the evidence shows the car has continued to be used. As such its only fair that he pays for 
this usage.
Given this, Mr T still owes the payments from June 2022 onwards. If, when the car is 
collected, the mileage still shows at 52,257 miles, then his liability for payments should stop 
at May 2022 (when this mileage figure was provided, and as no change in mileage would 
show the usage stopped). However, if the mileage shows that the car has continued to be 
used, then Mr T should be liable for payments up to the date of collection. And I would 
expect BMW to make an affordable repayment plan with Mr T to allow him to repay these 
missed payments over a reasonable amount of time.
So, if they havent already, BMW should:
collect the car, without any undue delay, at no cost to Mr T;
remove the default and any adverse information recorded on his credit file;
following collection, confirm to Mr T how much he still owes for the monthly payment 
arrears (based on my comments above), and make arrangements for him to repay 
this; and
once this liability has been repaid, unwind the agreement, remove it from his credit 
file, and refund the deposit plus 8% simple annual interest from the date of payment 
to the date of refund.If Mr T agrees, the deposit (plus interest) can be used to offset against the outstanding 
payments when his liability is calculated.
If BMW and Mr T are unable to agree a suitable repayment plan, or if Mr T fails to make any 
payments under any agreed repayment plan, then BMW are entitled to report this to the 
credit reference agencies. And this record is not required to be removed once the liability 
has been repaid and the agreement unwound.
Finally, the Inland Revenue require BMW to deduct tax from any interest paid. BMW are 
required to provide Mr T with a tax certificate for this interest if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman