DRN-4463961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
and the settlement of their claim.
What happened
Mr S became unwell whilst abroad with a heart problem. Mr and Mrs S were unable to return 
home as planned and remained abroad for around a week after their original planned return 
date. They had to pay for additional accommodation and return flights. They claimed for 
expenses totalling around £5500.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the assistance they received from the emergency assistance 
team. They were also unhappy with delays in handling and settling their claim. In summary, 
they were unhappy with the customer service and handling of their claim. Great Lakes 
issued two final response letters. They said that Mr and Mrs S had been offered a good level 
of customer service whilst they were abroad. However, they offered £150 compensation for 
the delays in handling the claim.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. He 
thought that Great Lakes had handled the claim appropriately whilst Mr and Mrs S were 
abroad. He was satisfied the claim had been fairly settled and thought the £150 fairly 
reflected the inconvenience caused by delays.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said 
that theyd been given reassurance that all their costs would be covered and highlighted 
some of the poor service they experienced. They said that their flights and accommodation 
should at least be covered. 
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The settlement of the claim
The policy terms and conditions set out that there is a limit for claims for additional 
accommodation and travelling costs. The limit is £2000, and the terms say that the 
limits of cover are per insured person unless otherwise shown.
Mr and Mrs Ss claim was assessed under the emergency medical and repatriation
expenses section of cover. It says:
We will pay up to amount shown on the table of benefits for each insured 
person who suffers sudden and unforeseen bodily injury, or illness, or who 
dies during a trip outside your home country
f) Up to £2000 for you to extend your stay, if [redacted] agrees that it is 
medically necessary for:
i. extra accommodation (room only) and travel expenses to allow you to return 
to your home country; and
ii. extra accommodation (room only) for someone to stay with you and travel 
home with you if this is deemed necessary by a doctor and agreed by our 
medical officer; or
iii. economy class travel expenses for one relative or friend to travel from your 
home country to stay with you (room only) and travel home with you if this is 
deemed necessary by our medical officer
g) the cost of telephone calls to [redacted] notifying and dealing with the 
emergency, or any costs incurred by you when you receive calls on your 
mobile telephone from [redacted].
Mr and Mrs Ss claim was for a number of expenses. £4019.68 was for additional 
accommodation and £1145.43 was for new flights home.
I dont think Great Lakes has fairly settled the claim in line with the terms. The policy 
limit is per insured person and so I think they should have paid Mr and Mrs S £4000 
as they were each entitled to claim for extra accommodation and travel expenses, up 
to the policy limit.
Mr and Mrs Ss claim was for more than that amount, but I think the policy limit per 
insured person should still apply as thats clearly set out in the policy documentation. 
Ive taken into account that Great Lakes confirmed to Mr S that hed got full 
coverage. But I think its reasonable to conclude that would still be subject to the 
overarching policy terms, including the relevant policy terms and limits. So, I cant 
fairly say that Great Lakes should pay the claim in full. Therefore, I think Great Lakes 
should pay Mr and Mrs S a further £2000 towards their accommodation and travel 
expenses.
There is separate cover for phone calls made to and from the assistance line. My 
understanding is that Mr and Mrs S claimed for £103.25 for calls they made and 
received whilst abroad. I think these are covered under the policy and ought to 
settled in line with the policy terms if they havent been settled already. If Great Lakes 
has settled any of these phone call expenses already, they should confirm this when 
they respond to my provisional decision.
Emergency Assistance
Im satisfied that Great Lakes responded appropriately to the medical emergency. I 
think Great Lakes took all the steps Id expect them to in a case like this. That 
included obtaining and reviewing Mr Ss medical history and referring it to the 
underwriter to confirm coverage as there were some medical conditions which hadnt 
been declared at the time of purchase. I can also see that a guarantee of payment 
was promptly issued, and that Great Lakes were proactively moving things forward.
However, I think this could have been better communicated to Mr and Mrs S. They 
felt in limbo as they didnt know what was happening. Mr S had to chase for an 
update after a few days and he has highlighted emails that werent responded to. 
Great Lakes says the assistance team tried to call Mr S, but he had no messages or 
missed calls. Hes also pointed out that Great Lakes could have made contact via their hotel. He specifically referenced these concerns in correspondence with the 
assistance company on 30 September.
I do think Great Lakes could have communicated with Mr S more clearly and 
consistently, including contacting him by email where necessary. I think they could 
have explained more clearly their plans and what was happening in the background. I 
dont think it was always clear what the plan was and what Great Lakes was doing. 
However, I do acknowledge that Great Lakes were communicating with Mr Ss 
daughter, and Mrs S as well.
Ive taken into account that Mr S did receive the medical care he needed, and I do 
think Great Lakes were actively making plans to get Mr S home, even if that wasnt 
clearly communicated to him. So, I can understand why Mr S was left feeling that 
things werent moving forward, particularly as he and Mrs S needed to return for 
business commitments.
Overall, I think Great Lakes were acting with Mr and Mrs Ss best interests in mind 
and that the repatriation plan progressed appropriately. But, as Ive outlined above, I 
think the lack of clarity about the process caused Mr and Mrs S to worry at an already 
difficult time. So, I think Great Lakes should pay £100 compensation for the lack of 
clarity in the communication about the repatriation plan.
Delays in Handling the claim
Great Lakes has acknowledged there were delays in handling the claim and offered 
£150 compensation. The claim was ongoing for some time, particularly because 
information from the medical assistance team wasnt readily available. And Mr and 
Mrs S were promised a manager call back, which didnt happen. They also requested 
to speak to a manager on a number of occasions.
Mr and Mrs S were claiming for a significant amount of money. I can understand why 
the delays and poor service added to their worry and frustration. Overall, it took until 
mid-June 2023 for the original settlement to be made, despite the claim being 
registered in October 2022. I dont think that was a reasonable timescale in all the 
circumstances. I think £250 compensation more fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Great Lakes to put things right by paying:
An additional £2000 to settle the claim
The cost of Mr and Mrs Ss calls to and from the assistance line if these 
havent already been settled
8% simple interest on the additional £2000 and cost of the phone calls from 
16 June 2023 to the date of settlement. If Great Lakes considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
A total of £350 compensation (inclusive of the £150 already offered) for 
delays and customer service-related issues.Mr and Mrs S responded to say that they didnt have any further comments but confirmed 
they hadnt received payment for the phone calls. 
Great Lakes didnt agree with my interpretation of the policy terms. However, they agreed to 
pay the compensation and settle the claim, including the phone bills, accommodation and 
hospital benefit. They also agreed to pay simple interest, proposing a total additional 
settlement of around £3565.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties accepted my findings theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion 
to that which I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying:
Settling the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, including the 
accommodation costs and the cost of Mr and Mrs Ss calls to and from the 
assistance line (subject to the policy limits)
8% simple interest on the additional settlement and cost of the phone calls 
from 16 June 2023 to the date of settlement. If Great Lakes considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
A total of £350 compensation (inclusive of the £150 already offered) for 
delays and customer service-related issues.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman