DRN-2842822
The complaint
Mr Is complained that Abacus Management Limited (Abacus) agreed a reduction in their 
fee for recovering mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) for him  but then charged 
him the full amount.
What happened
Mr I instructed Abacus to act on his behalf in recovering PPI.  His claim was successful.  So 
Abacus sent him a bill for £92.54  equivalent to 39% of the amount recovered, plus VAT.
Mr I called Abacus to challenge the amount of the bill.  He says he spoke to the owner, who 
agreed to reduce the charge to 20% plus VAT  a total of £47.46.  Mr I provided his card 
details on that basis.  But, the next day, he found hed been charged £92.54.
Mr I called Abacus again.  He spoke to someone different, who checked the notes on his file 
and agreed Mr I should only have been charged £47.46.  They told Mr I theyd credit the 
balance back to his account  and that this would take up to three working days.  
Mr I monitored his account but didnt receive the credit hed been told to expect.  He asked 
to speak to the person hed talked to before.  But he was told they were busy, and that 
Abacus would request them to call Mr I back.  Mr I didnt receive a callback  nor was he 
called back after he telephoned again.  He said emails had also gone unanswered, as had a 
complaint about the matter.  So he brought our complaint to our service.
Our investigator tried  without success - to get Abacuss business file.  He was only able to 
have one conversation with a representative of the company, who told him theyd never 
agreed to reduce Mr Is bill.  And hed signed an agreement with them at a time they were 
entitled to charge him a fee of 39% plus VAT.
As our investigator didnt receive Abacuss business file, he based his conclusions on Mr Is 
testimony and the limited information he did get.  He found Mr Is testimony persuasive and 
thought Abacus should resolve his complaint by refunding him £45.08  the balance of the 
fee Mr I said hed been told by Abacus would be paid back to him.
Our investigator didnt receive any comments on his view.  Because Abacus havent 
responded, Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done that, Im upholding Mr Is complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive seen almost nothing from Abacus in response to the complaint.  
Ive seen our investigator chased them to forward their business file  and specifically asked 
for call recordings, because the exchanges about the matter took place on the telephone.  
All he received from Abacus was a telephone call explaining their view, and a copy of Mr Is 
signed letter of authority.
So Ive relied largely on Mr Is testimony about what happened.  He was able to provide us 
with information about when he called and who he spoke to.  He told us how big a refund he 
was expecting  and how long Abacus would take to process that.  
Abacus disputed Mr Is account.  But theyve not supported what the told our investigator 
with any evidence from their business file.  So Im persuaded Mr Is testimony is an accurate 
account of what happened and Ive relied on that to make my decision.  
Putting things right
Mr I hasnt told us why he requested a refund.  Abacus have speculated that it was because 
he knew that later PPI agreements had their fees capped at a maximum of 20% plus VAT.  
Abacus told our investigator they were entitled to charge a higher fee because Mr I signed 
his agreement before the cap was introduced.
Its true that Mr I signed his agreement in March 2018.  And the cap was introduced for 
agreements made on or after 10 July 2018.  But Mr I isnt complaining that the fee is too high 
and should be reduced.  Hes complaining that a reduction was agreed, but Abacus didnt 
honour that agreement.  Its that complaint Ive upheld.
When making a decision about what the fairest outcome to a complaint is, we look at putting 
the consumer back in the position they wouldve been if nothing had gone wrong.  In this 
case, Mr I hasnt got the refund Im satisfied he was told hed get.  So I think Abacus should 
refund him the £45.08 he expected to receive.
And I think Abacus should pay Mr I interest on this amount at the rate of 8% from 26 
February 2020 (the date by which he was told hed receive a refund) until Abacus pay him.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Is complaint about Abacus Management 
Limited and Ive decided that Abacus should pay Mr I:
£45.08, being the refund of fees they agreed to pay him in February 2020;
Interest on £45.08, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, from 26 February 2020 
until the date they pay Mr I.  If Abacus considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman