DRN-1477639
 
The complaint
Mr D and Miss W say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Alliance and Leicester, but Ill just 
refer to Santander from now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 1992 alongside a mortgage to 
protect Mr D and Miss Ws mortgage monthly repayments. 
The policy covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr D and Miss W mainly said that they were told they needed to have PPI as part of the 
requirements for securing their mortgage, but it wasnt something they needed as they had 
secure jobs with sickness benefits and savings. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
There are no paper records for this sale. So Ive seen nothing signed by Mr D and Miss W 
from then. But as this sale happened a long time ago, I wouldnt reasonably expect 
Santander or Mr D and Miss W still to have this documentation. 
Mr D and Miss W told us that following an initial phone call, they arranged their mortgage 
and the PPI during a meeting at an Alliance and Leicester branch. So I think thats likely to 
be what happened even though Santander cant confirm how this PPI was sold.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr D and Miss W arranged their mortgage 
and took out the PPI. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr D and Miss W to recall 
exactly what was said at the time. This means that what Mr D and Miss W say about the way 
they were sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and take into account the wider circumstances 
when deciding what I think is most likely. Mr D and Miss Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a 
substantial number of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they 
mightve felt this policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr D and Miss W wanted to have the benefits and 
security that having PPI offered them, and it was added to their mortgage account when 
Mr D and Miss W decided to buy it.
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr D and Miss Ws circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr D and Miss W were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. 
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim and Mr D and Miss W couldve 
made repeated claims. So the policy wouldve provided long term cover for the mortgage. As 
the mortgage was taken out when they were both in work, I think its likely that losing either 
(or both) of their incomes wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So, I can 
see why they mightve felt having PPI was valuable to protect their income in the event they 
were unable to work.  
I've taken into account their sick pay entitlement. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
their work benefits  which could've been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time, bearing in mind that Mr D would've only been on half pay after hed been off 
work for 6 months and they mightve faced extra costs as a result of illness or disability.  
Although Mr D had a life policy set up, PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in 
different circumstances.
I dont know if Mr D and Miss W wouldve always had savings they couldve relied on if 
theyd needed to make a claim. It looks like they preferred not to spend savings, or they had 
other plans for that money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their 
savings to reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr D and Miss W could depend on 
being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other things or to provide financial 
security for the future.  
Ive also taken into account comments Mr D made about his job security and redundancy 
entitlement. There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. PPI wouldve 
paid out, in addition to any work benefits, providing additional financial security in these 
circumstances. And unlike the policy, his redundancy entitlement didn't also protect him if he 
was disabled or too sick to work. 
So I think PPI was suitable for Mr D and Miss W looking at their circumstances.
Its possible some of the information Mr D and Miss W were given about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look 
as if that affected Mr D and Miss W. So, I dont think having more information about things 
the policy didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it out.
 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr D and Miss W at the time they bought the 
policy. But I can see that the insurer wrote to them soon afterwards with details of the benefit 
theyd taken out and confirming the monthly premium. So they could see what they would have to pay to have this PPI and the policy appears to have been affordable. As they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their situation changed 
or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr D and Miss W still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given 
clearer information as it gave useful protection in Mr D and Miss Ws particular situation. 
And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D and Miss W about that. Because Santander 
didnt tell Mr D and Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account that the policy was later amended to cover 
just Mr D. But this doesnt affect my overall view or change the outcome. 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr D and Miss W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman