DRN-2749479
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with her let property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect 
of a claim she made to it when a vehicle collided with her property.
What happened
Mrs M owns a property which comprises a commercial premises on the ground floor 
and a flat above. The flat is divided into four rooms, which are individually let, and 
shared communal facilities.
In July 2018 a vehicle collided with the bay window of one of the individually let rooms of 
the flat. It was between tenants, but would have been let again shortly, Mrs M says.
Mrs M called UKI and it appointed a loss adjuster. The adjuster visited the premises within 
a week of the incident. He said a surveyor was needed to determine the extent of the 
damage. Around seven months later the loss adjuster reported the surveyor had 
authorised a schedule of works to reinstate the property. But still repairs did not progress 
and it was a week shy of a full year from the incident date when scaffolding was erected at 
the property.
UKIs contractor then found some internal timbers were rotten. It said the deterioration of 
the wood was so advanced it must have begun before the vehicle damaged the property. 
UKI concluded it was unrelated and damage it wouldnt cover as part of the vehicle impact 
claim. But its contractors wouldnt complete the insured work, without also reinstating the 
timbers. It said reinstating the timbers would cost around £14,000. UKI determined the 
insured reinstatement works would cost just over £22,000, and it had spent around 
£10,000 already. UKI said it could either proceed with the work, with Mrs M paying it 
£14,000 for the uninsured work, or it would settle in cash at a rounded-up figure of 
£13,000, being the cost of the reinstatement work, less what it had spent to date, and net 
of the policy excess. UKI said that included the cost of scaffolding. 
Mrs M really wasnt sure what to do. She couldnt afford to pay UKI £14,000, but nor did 
she feel she could get even the insured work done for £13,000. She noted that UKI had 
taken the scaffolding away, so she would have to arrange and pay for more. She said UKI 
hadnt given her any lost rent, despite her paying an extra premium for that cover. She 
also felt that UKI had delayed the claim causing her upset, financial hardship, and 
causing the building to deteriorate. But she had no estimates of her own for repair.
UKI said it didnt think the building had deteriorated, but it accepted it had caused delays 
and the timeframe from the date of claim to the point scaffolding was put up was 
unacceptable. It offered £300 compensation. It said there was no lost rent for it to pay 
because the property had never been uninhabitable due to the impact damage. It 
maintained its cash settlement offer and Mrs M complained to us.
Our investigator accepted that UKI had paid around £10,000 to its contractors prior to 
offering settlement for the claim. So she felt its settlement offer was fair. But she said it 
should consider further evidence, if Mrs M provided it which showed further work was 
necessary due to UKIs delays. She didnt think UKI was liable for lost rent. She felt it 
should pay a further £300 compensation.
UKI agreed with the findings. Mrs M didnt. She made a number of points in reply, 
including that the rotten timbers had only been discovered as a result of the impact claim. 
So she felt they should be covered as part of that claim. But she added that if UKI had 
just paid her for what it would cost to reinstate the property, which it had said would be 
around £22,000, and for her lost rent, shed have been happy with that.
Mrs M added that UKIs contractor had taken all the keys for the property, so shed likely 
have to replace the locks, which she felt UKI should pay for. Our investigator noted this 
was a new issue.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I didnt think UKI had made a 
fair settlement for the insured repairs. I felt it had acted unfairly when it declined the loss of 
rent claim. Further I felt it should pay total compensation of £600. I explained I couldnt 
consider the issue of the keys as part of this complaint. I issued a provisional decision to 
share my views with both parties. 
UKI said it accepted it should pay the claim for lost rent, and reaffirmed it agreed the 
compensation award. But it said it didnt agree it should pay more for the claim. The 
deduction, it said, had been made in respect of work already done and it had 
investigated and validated the costs invoiced by the contractor before deducting them 
from its settlement. 
Mrs M indicated she was pleased by my findings. She sent a spreadsheet showing 
rental income that would have been achieved. But Mrs M also said shed like the issue 
of the keys to be dealt with, and for me to increase my compensation award. She feels 
the latter is necessary not just because of what she has suffered but also to make sure 
UKI recognises and understands that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
reinstatement settlement
I said provisonally:
UKI has said:
The total projected cost of the insurance related works and scaffold hire to date amounts to
£22,907.00. Having deducted the aforementioned sum of £10,151.26 in respect of 
costs already incurred, the remaining balance available to Mrs M by way of a cash 
settlement would amount to £12,755.74.
The £12,755.74 was then rounded up to £13,000.So UKI has determined what costs will be required going forwards to reinstate the property 
 projected costs. But from that sum it has deducted costs it has already incurred. 
I think its fair to say that on a cold reading of that explanation it seems unlikely that costs 
already spent would be factored into costs which are likely to be incurred going forwards 
(projected). And nothing UKI has provided makes me think this understanding of its 
explanation of the settlement offered is wrong. In saying that Im mindful that its 
contractors dont seem to have actually completed any reinstatement work. Further, whilst 
costs incurred for scaffolding are mentioned, the invoice totalling £10,151.26 isnt very 
clear. And in any event it has taken the scaffolding away whilst Mrs M will need scaffolding 
to do the work. Nothing Ive seen makes me think it would be fair to say UKI can deduct 
this sum from its calculated, projected cost of reinstatement. To do so would seemingly 
leave Mrs M out of pocket for reinstatement works UKI is liable for under the policy. Im 
currently minded to require UKI to now pay Mrs M £9,707, plus interest*  this being the 
total UKI has said it will cost for the insured work to be done, less the £13,000 it has 
already paid, less the £200 policy excess. Interest* should be added from the date UKI 
first offered settlement in cash and applied until this sum is paid.
It isnt clear to me if the sum of £22,907 includes or excludes VAT. If it excludes VAT, 
once Mrs M completes work and incurs VAT, and assuming she isnt entitled to claim 
this back elsewhere for some reason, she can present her invoice to UKI for it to pay the 
VAT costs incurred as against the total settlement value.
UKI was entitled to offer cash once it was apparent that Mrs M wasnt able to pay it 
outright for the uninsured repairs. UKI was only ever liable for resolving the impact 
damage, and I can understand why its contractors wouldnt want to complete those 
repairs if they concealed rotting timbers. Whilst it must have been upsetting for Mrs M to 
learn there was significant damage at this property that needed resolving, I cant 
reasonably tie liability for that work to UKI. Certainly not just because the fact of it was 
uncovered during the normal course of its claim investigations.
I havent seen that further work or costs are now necessary because of UKIs delay in 
handling the claim. To be clear, if there was any evidence of this, Id be finding UKI liable. 
So if Mrs Ms contractor does find extra work is needed that hasnt been accounted for by 
the settlement for works, evidence of that will need to be sent to UKI for it to consider. If 
its likely linked to UKIs delay then UKI will have to cover the cost of that work.
Having reviewed UKIs response on this issue, Im not convinced it managed this situation 
very well at all. The invoice it paid its contractor  which generated the sum it deducted 
from Mrs Ms settlement  was based on the contractors bill for various trades. This is an 
unsual way for an insurer to calculate repair costs. The invoice didnt detail what works 
had been done. From what Ive seen Im not satisfied that UKIs contractor completed 
around £10,000 worth of work that Mrs M will now not have to do. And I say that not least 
because it is now clear that the contractor had factored into the bill the cost of travelling to 
the property. UKI also in its settlement hasnt accounted for the fact that Mrs M will incur a 
cost to install scaffolding. In its latest commentary UKI has also said the contractor spent 
time gathering evidence about the uninsured work and reporting on that, so that was also 
factored into its costings. I understand that was an important part of the claim for UKI  so 
it could establish the limit of its liability for repairs. But it cant reasonably deduct its 
investigation costs from the payment made to Mrs M to settle its liability for reinstating the 
damage covered by the policy. Im far from convinced that UKI settled this claim fairly and 
reasonably. I remain of the view that to properly resolve matters UKI must pay Mrs M 
£9,707, plus interest*. My view on VAT remains as that provisionally stated.loss of rent
I said provisonally:
The policy cover for this is not contingent upon the property being uninhabitable. The 
insured damage only has to interrupt the business for liability to attach to UKI for lost 
rent. I fail to see any reasonable argument that would allow a landlord to rent a room 
where the bay has suffered a structural impact, and where significant (to the tune of 
£20,000) structural repairs are pending. UKI should settle Mrs Ms claim for lost rent 
under the policy.
To do this it will need a start and end date for the interruption period.
Whilst UKI may argue the room was not let at the time of the loss as UKI hasnt looked at 
this before, Ive taken Mrs Ms word on this at face value. That said, for UKI to make 
settlement, it will have to see evidence from Mrs M of when the room would most likely 
have been tenanted again if the collision had not occurred. It can then apply this 
knowledge to give a start date for the lost rent claim period to run from.
UKI will then have to determine how long the necessary insured repairs will likely take, 
including a reasonable lead time. It can then apply this period from the point it pays the 
additional settlement to Mrs M. That will give an end date for the lost rent claim to be 
paid until.
To any settlement UKI makes it should add interest*. This on each rental amount Mrs M 
would have ordinarily received, from the date she would likely have received it, and 
applied on that sum until settlement is made.
Ill arrange for our investigator to forward to UKI the spreadsheet Mrs M has provided. But 
I cant take the detail on that spreadshet as read and require UKI to pay the sums totalled 
at the bottom. Rather UKI needs a chance to assess the claim and determine what fair 
settlement of it  in line with the policy wording and my comments above  would be. 
claim handing
I said provisonally:
Ive seen no good reason why this claim took a year to significantly progress. I see that 
UKI acknowledges that this was unacceptable. Ive seen that during the course of the 
claim Mrs M has been very worried about the whole situation, not least given the impact 
on her finances given the rental income lost. I accept that her upset and worry was 
further exacerbated when UKI made its unfair offer of settlement for the reinstatement 
work. Im satisfied that total compensation for distress and inconvenience of £600 is fairly 
and reasonably due.
I appreciate that this situation has had a significant impact on Mrs M. Ive reviewed what 
went on and what shes told us shes felt. Im satisfied that £600 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, as well as in line with other awards made by this service in 
similar circumstances. 
keys
I said provisonally:Ive not seen that UKI has had a chance to consider this issue. Therefore, I cant 
comment on it as part of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs M is keen for this issue to be resolved by UKI paying for all locks 
to be replaced. But this issue wasnt part of the complaint made to UKI or brought to this 
service about its settlement and wider service issues. So, unfortunately for Mrs M, 
I cant consider this issue or make any findings on its merits within this decision. Mrs M 
should contact UKI if she wants to progress this new complaint.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay:
Mrs M £9,707 to settle the building reinstatement claim, plus interest* from the date 
the offer to settle in cash was first made until this settlement is paid. If this sum does 
not allow for VAT, once Mrs M incurs VAT, assuming she isnt able to claim this back 
elsewhere, and presents evidence of her cost of this to UKI, it will need to reimburse 
her VAT costs in line with the overall settlement value.
Mrs Ms claim for lost rent, across the specified period explained above, subject to her 
providing proof of when the room would most likely have been re-let, plus interest* on 
each rental payment she would have received from the date she would have received it 
until settlement is made.
Mrs M a total of £600 compensation for upset, if any part of this has been paid already, 
only the amount outstanding will need to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
tax from any interest due to Mrs M, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress directed in 
putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman