DRN-1371233
The complaint
Mr K and Miss B are unhappy at the way their Help to Buy (HTB) shared equity loan was 
administered by Target Servicing Limited.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr K and Miss B had a HTB loan on their property. They were re-
mortgaging and wanted to repay 50% of the HTB loan. Target was informed of this in an 
email dated 15 February 2019.
Unfortunately Target processed the request as if Mr K and Miss B were repaying the loan in 
full. This caused a delay of about three weeks, when it was discovered that a deed of 
postponement would be needed. 
There was a further delay when Target, late in the day, asked for information about surplus 
funds Mr K and Miss B were borrowing. 
Mr K and Miss Bs existing mortgage went onto Standard Variable Rate (SVR), which they 
paid for three months. They complained about the delays, which they attributed to Target.
An investigator looked at the complaint and was satisfied that Target wasnt responsible for 
all the delays in the case. The investigator thought that four weeks of the delay in putting the 
new mortgage in place could be attributed to Target.
Target was asked to pay compensation of £175.88 to cover the interest which had been 
incurred as a result of its actions. Target had also offered compensation of £25 for trouble 
and upset, which the investigator thought was too low. He asked Target to pay 
compensation of £150.
Target accepted that it should pay £175.88 but thought £150 was too much. Target said it 
would pay a further £75, making a total of £100.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to decide what a fair and reasonable 
outcome should be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Target has acknowledged that it should reimburse Mr K and Miss B for interest of £175.88. 
Having reviewed whats happened, the timeline of events and where the delays occurred, 
Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable for the actual financial loss caused to Mr B and 
Miss K.
So the only outstanding issue is that of compensation for trouble and upset. Target has 
already paid £25 compensation, and has offered a further £75. The investigator thought that 
a total of £150  so a further £125  should be paid by Target.Im satisfied that a total figure of compensation of £150 should be paid. I think this is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the trouble and upset caused to Mr K and Miss B by Target.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Target Servicing 
Limited must pay Mr B and Miss K compensation for financial loss of £175.88 and, in 
addition to the £25 already paid, a further £125 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
 
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman