DRN-3758527
The Complaint
Mr G says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 22 February 2006 (the Time of
Sale). 
Background to the Complaint
Mr G purchased the holiday product in question from a third party (the Supplier) and used a 
loan from BPF to help finance the purchase (the Credit Agreement)  which was sold to a 
third party in August 2007.
Unhappy with what had happened both at and after the Time of Sale, Mr G wrote to BPF 
using a complaint platform in October 2018 alleging that the holiday product and loan had 
been mis-sold  having focused, in the main, on the loan being granted irresponsibly.
BPF dealt with what Mr G had to say as a claim under Section 75 of the CCA and a 
complaint. And, having issued its final response in November 2018, it thought that the claim 
had been made too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr G then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2018. It 
was looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information in front of her, 
concluded that she didnt have jurisdiction to consider BPFs decision to lend and that a 
claim under Section 75 was late under the LA.
Mr G disagreed. He said that his complaint was about unaffordable lending and claims under 
Sections 75 (for breach of contract and misrepresentation) and 140A of the CCA. He also 
said that he was complaining about the length of his purchase agreement and he referred 
the investigator to a judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court that found a holiday product 
purchase agreement null and void.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 5 August 2022. And my provisional findings can be 
summarised as follows:
It wasnt clear to me at the time of my PD as to what type of CCA claim Mr G had 
made against BPF  if he had made one at all. On my reading of the complaint he 
made to BPF, I couldnt see any allegations that struck me as factual 
misrepresentations or a breach of contract. And I couldnt see any suggestion that 
the relationship between him and BPF was unfair  nor was there enough from what 
Mr G had said to reasonably infer that was what he meant. Instead, it seemed to me 
that the substance of his complaint concerned BPFs decision to lend to him  which I 
thought wasnt an issue the Financial Ombudsman Service had jurisdiction to 
consider.
I then made the point that, even if I was wrong to suggest that a claim under Section 
140A of the CCA hadnt been made, in keeping with Jones v Link Financial [2012], it 
seemed unlikely to me that BPF was responsible for such a claim because Mr Gs 
loan was sold to a third party in August 2007.
As for the suggestion Mr G made in response to the investigators assessment that 
the purchase agreement he entered into at the Time of Sale was null and void, I 
pointed out that this particular assertion wasnt put to the business responsible for 
answering it before this complaint made its way to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. And for that reason, I thought that the business to whom the loan was sold 
had to be given the chance to consider and respond to this assertion first before this 
Service can consider a complaint about it.
I did go on to consider the merits of a claim for misrepresentation under Section 75 of 
the CCA because it was after BPF considering Mr Gs concerns on that basis that 
this complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But having done 
that, even if such a claim had been made, I thought it would have been out of time 
under the LA. And while I acknowledged in my PD that Mr G says that he didnt know 
he had cause to claim until more recently, on my reading of the LA, and given the 
circumstances of this complaint, I wasnt persuaded that his lack of knowledge 
extended the time he had available to make a claim for misrepresentation (if he had 
indeed made one).
BPF had nothing further to add in response to my PD. But Mr G disagreed with my
provisional findings. He said he wasnt aware that his holiday product had been mis-sold
until he read an article online in 2017/2018  which was a point he thought I hadnt dealt
with. He repeated the point that the purchase agreement he entered into was unlawful. He
also said that he hadnt been given a cooling off period after his purchase. And, in addition
to all of that, he indicated that he was still being pursued by third parties for the money he
borrowed under the Credit Agreement  which has affected his credit file.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, I revisited this complaint. 
I issued a Decision on 14 October 2022 explaining why the Financial Ombudsman Service 
couldnt consider everything that Mr G had complained about. But I made it clear that the 
Service could consider a complaint about BPFs handling of a claim under Section 75 of the 
CCA. So, its that aspect of Mr Gs complaint that this Final Decision deals with.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think I need to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to 
the Section 75 claim it dealt with.Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
As I said in my PD, if Mr G had made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA, 
the limitation period for such a claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. 
So, this means that he had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action would have accrued for the purpose of a 
misrepresentation claim is the point at which Mr G entered into the purchase and Credit 
Agreements. I say this because it was when he entered into the purchase agreement that he 
would have done so based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as the 
loan from BPF was used to help finance the purchase, it was when he entered into the 
Credit Agreement that he would have suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action in question here would have accrued when 
Mr G entered into the purchase agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement  which means 
he would have had six years from either of those points in time to make a claim for 
misrepresentation if thats what he was doing when he wrote to BPF. But as he didnt write to 
BPF until October 2018, his claim (if made) is likely to have been late.
Whats more, on my reading of the LA, it provides for time to be extended in certain 
circumstances rather than simply because Mr G didnt know that he could make a claim 
against BPF. And given the circumstances of this complaint, Im still not persuaded that 
theres a reason why time might be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA. 
So, I still think that BPF had and has a defence to such a claim under the LA.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint insofar as it relates to BPFs 
handling of a Section 75 claim for misrepresentation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman