DRN-3788694
The complaint
Mr A and Ms W complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Ms W have a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. This covers their 
buildings and contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim after an independent surveyor suggested that their home was being 
damaged as a result of subsidence. The claim is still on-going more than three years later.
Mr A and Ms W made a complaint to Aviva about the delays, a lack of communication about 
the progress of the claim, an unwillingness to address concerns about the attempted repairs 
and poor customer service.
Aviva provided a final response to Mr A and Ms Ws complaint in December 2021. Theyve 
admitted failings in the way the claim was handled. And they offered £1,000 in compensation 
to Mr A and Ms W for their trouble and upset. They also agreed to pay for the independent 
surveyors report commissioned by Mr A and Ms W.
Mr A and Ms W were still concerned and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it. He thought the complaint should be upheld because Aviva had made 
significant errors in the handling of the claim. But he thought the offer of compensation and 
payment for the report was broadly fair and reasonable.
Mr A and Ms W asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They want Aviva to pay for 
two further reports they obtained relating to CCTV surveys of their drains. And they want 
Aviva to settle the claim in a way that puts them back in the position they were in before their 
house suffered the subsidence damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that theres no real dispute here about the facts. Aviva have admitted 
they made mistakes in the handling of the claim which led to delays and caused significant 
trouble and upset for Mr A and Ms W. 
And Mr A and Ms W arent really disputing the amount of compensation which should be 
offered either. Theyve told us theyre willing to accept this as long as Aviva settle their claim 
in a satisfactory manner and also pay for the two CCTV survey reports.
I believe Mr A and Ms W asked for a final decision because they were hoping that wed 
instruct Aviva how to settle the claim and tell them to pay for the two CCTV reports.
However, as weve pointed out to Mr A and Ms W, the way our service operates is governed 
by the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution rules. 
Those rules, which were absolutely bound by, say that we cant look into a complaint until 
the financial business concerned has had the chance to consider it and resolve it themselves 
(unless the business consents to our doing so).
At the time Mr A and Ms W made their complaint to Aviva  and then to us  Aviva hadnt yet 
been asked to pay for the CCTV survey reports. As I understand it, theyve now been sent 
the reports and payment invoices. I expect theyre now considering whether to pay for them 
or not.
Weve set out in broad terms for Mr A and Ms W what wed expect from Aviva here. If those 
reports inform how the claim is settled and what repairs are carried out, then it would usually 
be fair to ask Aviva to pay for them. But thats not something I can require them to do in this 
decision because Aviva havent had the chance to resolve that issue themselves as yet.
The same principle applies when it comes to settling the claim. I understand Aviva are now 
intending to cash settle, based on a schedule of works previously drawn up by their 
contractors.
Again, weve explained to Mr A and Ms W what we think is usually fair in cases where the 
insurer wants to cash settle a claim. That is, they should usually pay what it reasonably costs 
the customer to get the required repairs carried out.
I know Mr A and Ms W have also asked Aviva to include some additional repairs in the 
schedule of works  particularly around damage to their landing. 
Its not for me, at this stage, to step in and act as a loss adjuster for Aviva. Ive no doubt they 
will now consider the evidence and information provided by Mr A and Ms W and calculate 
what they believe would be a reasonable cash settlement. 
If Aviva refuse to pay for the CCTV reports and/or offer a cash settlement which Mr A and 
Ms W think is unfair or unreasonable, then they would be entitled to make another complaint 
to Aviva  and then bring it to us if they arent satisfied with Avivas response. To put it 
bluntly, the rules we operate under dont allow us to deal with hypothetical situations and/or 
what might happen in future. 
Putting things right
Because Aviva and/or their agents made significant mistakes in the way Mr A and Ms Ws 
claim was handled, Im upholding this complaint.
Mr A and Ms W were caused a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of those 
errors. And, as I say, theres no real dispute here that £1,000 is appropriate compensation 
for their trouble and upset from the outset of the claim through to December 2021 when 
Aviva issued their final response to Mr A and Ms Ws complaint.
I understand Aviva have now paid for the initial surveyors report commissioned by Mr A and 
Ms W. And I think it was a fair outcome that they should do so.
As Ive explained above, in this decision, Im not going to require Aviva to do anything now in 
relation to the CCTV survey report costs or in terms of the specifics of the claim settlement. 
Mr A and Ms W can make a further complaint if theyre not happy with the way Aviva take 
things forward from here or if there are further significant and avoidable delays.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr A and Ms Ws complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr A and Ms W £1,000 in compensation for their trouble 
and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman