DRN-4017653
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L contacted RSA to make a claim when she found damp in her home. RSA sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. RSA then declined the claim, as it said the damage was 
become of issues with the roof, but there wasnt evidence of storm related damage to the 
roof and the internal damage wasnt the result of a single one-off event.
A few months later, Mrs L contacted RSA again because she had now found a leak from her 
boiler. She said this had been the cause of damp to her home. RSA investigated and 
accepted the claim. Mrs L complained because she was concerned by how the claim was 
progressing and the settlement offered. When RSA replied, it explained the elements of the 
claim it could settle and the amount it was willing to offer. It also offered £350 compensation 
for the issues with the claim. However, it said it was still looking into whether it could cover 
costs related to the kitchen replacement.
Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the main 
issue that remained outstanding was whether RSA should cover the cost of the kitchen. He 
said RSA seemed to misadvise Mrs L about the likely cause of the damage to her home and 
that if it hadnt done so, Mrs L wouldnt have had the issues with her kitchen. He said RSA 
should pay £3,300 for the repairs to the kitchen and deal with any damage caused by its 
contractors as part of the ongoing claim.
RSA replied to our investigator and said it didnt agree that its surveyor had misadvised Mrs 
L. Our investigator provided RSA with further details about the reasons for his findings, but 
RSA didnt reply. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The main issue that I need to consider is the damage to the kitchen. While the complaint 
was with this service, RSA seemed to accept that it could look at the damage to the kitchen 
but that it thought it should be a new claim rather than part of the claim that had already 
been opened. RSA said this was because it hadnt misadvised Mrs L when it first came out 
to inspect the damage, as Mrs L hadnt mentioned damage to the hall or kitchen. It also said 
the damage was part of a separate incident.
Mrs L told this service what she and her daughter had shown the surveyor the damage 
during his visit, which included some damage to the kitchen. RSA was asked to consider this 
but didnt reply. So, Ive looked at the evidence available to me, including Mrs Ls 
explanation and RSAs reports.  I also noted that although RSA seemed to describe Mrs Ls 
initial claim as being for storm damage, I listened to the phone call when she described what 
had happened and she said she didnt know the cause and I didnt hear her suggest it was 
due to a storm. It appears RSA then considered it as a storm claim and declined it because it 
couldnt find evidence of storm damage.
 Im also aware Mrs L said that following the surveyors visit, she had a roofer look at her roof 
and check various parts of it and didnt find the issue. Having thought about this carefully, Im 
more persuaded that RSA incorrectly advised Mrs L and that this contributed to the damage 
to her kitchen. As a result, I think RSA needs to deal with the damage to the kitchen as part 
of the claim it has already dealt with and that it should settle it by paying the invoice for 
£3,300 that Mrs L provided.
Mrs L also said RSAs contractor caused damage to her kitchen. For example, Mrs L thought 
some of the damage might have been caused by the dehumidifiers, but that it might also 
have been caused when the contractors removed the ceramic tiles. So, I think RSA needs to 
assess the damage and repair any damage caused by its contractors.
Putting things right
RSA should deal with the kitchen as part of the existing claim and pay Mrs L £3,300 for the 
kitchen. It should also assess the damage to the kitchen and repair any damage caused by 
its contractors.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs L to include the kitchen as part of the existing claim and pay her £3,300 for the 
kitchen.
Assess the damage to the kitchen and repair any damage caused by its contractors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman