DRN-3142716
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skrill Limited closed his account and failed to release his funds.  
What happened
Mr K opened an account with Skrill on 17 March 2020. 
On 18 March 2020 Skrill asked Mr K for identification documents as part of their 'Know Your 
Customer' procedures. Mr K supplied a copy of his identification - however Skrill had 
concerns about the authenticity of the documentation and decided to close Mr K's account 
with immediate effect. 
The business also decided to charge Mr K an administration fee of 167.38 dollars which was 
the entirety of Mr Ks account balance. 
Mr K complained about Skrill's actions. But Skrill responded to say theyd followed the terms 
and conditions of the account in charging him the administration fee. 
One of our investigator's looked into Mr K's complaint and upheld it. They thought Skrill had 
acted unfairly in applying the account term - and should return the administration fee to 
Mr K's account and then return the funds to source. 
Mr K didn't reply to our investigator's opinion.
Skrill didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response they said theyd followed the terms 
and conditions of his account in charging Mr K the administration fee. And therefore theyd 
acted fairly. 
As Skrill didnt agree, Mr Ks case was referred to me for a decision. On reviewing Mr Ks 
case I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. 
I shared my thoughts with Skrill and Mr K. I explained that I thought Skrill had acted fairly in 
ending their relationship with Mr K without notice  however I thought they werent within 
their rights to charge him an administration fee of 167.38 dollars. And they should refund this 
to account. However, I explained I was satisfied that Skrill were acting within their rights 
when they asked Mr K for proof of his identity and they shouldnt release the funds to him 
until satisfactory identification documents are provided. 
Skrill accepted my recommendation  and theyve advised me that the funds have already 
credited to Mr Ks account. But Mr K didnt reply so Ive proceeded to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skrill have shared a copy of the identification document provided by Mr K on opening his 
account - and I appreciate their concerns here. Skrill have highlighted they have legal and 
regulatory responsibilities and need to know the personal details of any customer opening or 
operating an account. Having reviewed the evidence supplied, I'm satisfied that Skrill had 
sufficient concerns to immediately terminate their relationship with Mr K. 
However, this isnt the crux of Mr Ks complaint  instead he's concerned with the funds 
which remained in his account on closing  and the charging of a 167.38 dollar 
administration fee. Skrill initially cited the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account when 
making this charge  and the terms and conditions do indeed state that they are entitled to 
charge a fee of up to 150 euros. But, theyve not provided any evidence of a breakdown of 
how they came to this figure  and now accept the fee wasnt fair or proportionate. 
Ive thought about a fair resolution to this complaint. And I understand Skrills request for 
Mr K to provide satisfactory identification documents before releasing the funds. All account 
providers have extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities which mean they need to 
ensure they know the identify of customers using their services. Therefore I think its fair for 
Mr K to provide satisfactory identification documents before the funds are released. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Skrill to ask Mr K to provide satisfactory identification 
documents before releasing his remaining funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. And direct Skrill Limited to:
Refund 167.38 dollars to Mr Ks account (if they havent already done so)
Allow Mr K access to the funds if he provides satisfactory identification documents
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman