DRN-3922162
The complaint
Miss G complains Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing over 
£21,000 to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss G has explained that in 2021 she made the following payments to Binance from her 
Clydesdale account, using her debit card, to fund what she thought was a legitimate 
investment with Malaikah Raja/Rod Market.
Transaction number Date Merchant Amount (£)
1 04 May 2021 Binance 1,856
2 04 May 2021 Binance 10,000
3 05 May 2021 Binance 8,900
4 12 May 2021 Binance 310
Total 21,066
When Miss G subsequently got in touch with Clydesdale to explain shed been scammed, 
Clydesdale didnt reimburse Miss Gs lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss G referred her 
complaint about Clydesdale to this service. As our investigator (who did not recommend that 
the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
I sent Miss G and Clydesdale my provisional decision in November 2022 explaining why 
I was minded to partially uphold this complaint and the redress I considered appropriate. 
Now that both parties have replied to my provisional decision, and Ive had the opportunity to 
review the case again, including the responses to my provisional decision, Im now ready to 
explain my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has made detailed submissions in relation to her complaint. Ive read and considered 
everything that shes sent in. But I wont be responding in similar detail. So if 
I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Ive reached the same conclusions as explained in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons again below. 
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Clydesdale to have done 
anything further until Miss G notified it of the scam. Then, because these were debit card 
payments, the only potential avenue for potential recovery of the payments would have been 
through the chargeback scheme.
However, Miss G made the payments from her Clydesdale debit card to Binance (and not 
directly to Malaikah Raja/Rod Market). This means the merchant here, for chargeback 
purposes, was Binance (and not Malaikah Raja/Rod Market). Binance legitimately provided 
the services intended (which was the purchase of cryptocurrency and then moving it onto the 
wallet of her choosing). The subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency onto 
Malaikah Raja/Rod Market would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim through 
Clydesdale. So I dont think these payments were recoverable through Clydesdale once they 
had been made.
Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Clydesdale reasonably 
ought to have prevented some or all of Miss Gs payments to Binance in the first place  
therefore preventing her loss or part of it. 
Its common ground that Miss G authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammer into instructing Clydesdale to make the payments. I accept these 
were authorised payments even though Miss G was tricked. So although she didnt intend 
the money to go to a scammer, Miss G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Now here, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Clydesdales systems were 
triggered before Miss Gs first payment (set out above) was sent; and that Clydesdale did 
interact with Miss G at this point before it allowed the payments through.
Im satisfied, therefore, that the material questions here then  the questions the outcome of 
this complaints turns on  are (1) did Clydesdale discuss Miss Gs payment instructions 
appropriately with her before allowing them through  and, if Clydesdale didnt do that, (2) 
would Miss Gs loss most likely have been prevented if Clydesdale had instead done so.Did Clydesdale appropriately discuss the payments before it allowed them through?
Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that I can say Clydesdale did discuss the 
payment instructions with Miss G in a way I would reasonably expect.
Given the nature of the payments, and the fact that Clydesdales system was triggered, in a 
situation like this, in order to meet its obligations summarised above, Clydesdale reasonably 
ought to have spoken with Miss G to check everything was in order before it processed the 
payments, to protect her from the possibility of financial harm. And during such a 
conversation with Miss G, I would reasonably expect Clydesdale to have asked who the 
payment was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded 
appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud
or scam. I dont think such a conversation ought to have stopped on the basis that the 
money was going to Binance, a legitimate crypto exchange  because by January 2019 
(over two years previously) Clydesdale had or ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how scams like these work  with the victim sending money to a crypto 
exchange before it is transferred onto the scammer. 
Would Miss Gs loss most likely have been prevented if Clydesdale had appropriately 
discussed the payments with Miss G before it allowed them through?
I dont think I can reasonably say Clydesdale ought to held responsible for the loss of the 
first payment because, after all, this payment was for a relatively modest amount. And there 
is a balance to be struck. Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. 
I do think, however, that if Clydesdale had appropriately discussed payment two with Miss G, 
before it allowed it through  as I think it reasonably ought to have done  this would have 
made a difference. I say this because I can see from Clydesdales records that there is a 
note dated just the day after (on 5 May 2021) that Miss G asked Clydesdale whether she 
would be protected by chargeback if she was being scammed. I think its fair to say she was 
most likely already having some doubts.  And I think Clydesdale, if appropriate after referring 
internally for advice, really ought to have been able to impress upon Miss G the very high 
risk she was being scammed and the reasons why (bearing in mind the knowledge and 
awareness I would expect Clydesdale to have about scams like this by 2021). And I think if 
Clydesdale had done this in the way Id reasonably expect it to have, its most likely Miss G 
would have then realised the risk of continuing with the payments was too high to accept. 
It follows that I think Miss G wouldnt then have proceeded with payment two, nor payments 
three and four.
Ive thought about whether Miss G should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). I dont think its 
unfair to say Miss G really wasnt as careful with these payments as she reasonably ought to 
have been. She did undertake some previous due diligence. But as early as the day after 
payment two, she asked Clydesdale whether shed be protected by chargeback. And I think 
its fair to say, she reasonably ought to have had some concerns already  but she 
proceeded anyway. Im satisfied in these circumstances that there should be a 50% 
reduction to the compensation payable for the loss of payments two to four, to reflect Miss 
Gs contribution to the loss of those payments.Putting things right
It follows that I think Clydesdale should pay Miss G £9,605 (50% of payments two to four). It 
should also pay Miss G interest on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement calculated at 8% simple per year, to compensate Miss G for the period she has 
been deprived of this money.
I understand the experience has caused Miss G distress and inconvenience. And I am 
naturally sympathetic in cases like this where someone is cruelly scammed out of money, 
and there is an emotional impact too. However, I am mindful that Clydesdale has already 
paid Miss G £60 compensation for service issues. And I am mindful that the scammer was 
ultimately the root cause here. And whilst I have concluded Clydesdale most likely could 
have prevented payments two to four, as Ive explained I also think a 50% reduction to the 
compensation due to contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all of this in mind, 
overall Im satisfied the award I have set out here represents a fair outcome to this case, so I 
dont make an additional award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint and I direct 
Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Miss G £9,605 plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement. If Clydesdale deducts tax in relation to the 
interest element of the award, it should provide Miss G with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman