DRN-4047349
The complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 complain ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold them a life assurance 
and critical illness policy. They are also unhappy the level of commission charged hasnt 
been disclosed.
What happened
In 1993, Mr C1 and his brother Mr C2 took out a joint Lifestages life assurance and critical 
illness policy through an adviser from Barclays Life who ReAssure have since acquired 
liability for.
The policy provided £22,000 of cover for a premium of £15.00 a month and was a condition 
of borrowing put in place by a bank manager, to agree an extension of an overdraft facility 
for their fathers business.
In 2019, Mr C1 complained to ReAssure that he and his brother had been forced to take out 
the policy despite neither of them being owners of, nor employed by their fathers business 
at the time. He also complained they were not offered a choice of alternatives or given the 
option to go to another provider and they werent made aware of the level of commission that 
was charged.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint saying the recommendation of the policy was suitable 
for Mr C1 and Mr C2 circumstances at the time. Mr C1 and Mr C2 remained unhappy, so 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think ReAssure were responsible for 
protection being a condition of the lending being agreed. He was also satisfied the policy 
recommended suitably met the lenders requirements so didnt agree it had been mis-sold.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 disagreed with our Investigators opinion saying because the bank were 
acting directly as ReAssures agent, ReAssure should bear full legal responsibility for the 
policy being set out as a condition of lending. They also said despite numerous requests for 
ReAssure to disclose what commission was charged on the policy they have chosen not to.
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 February 2023. In this I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. Mr C1 and Mr 
C2 have presented their case in a detailed manner, and I thank them for this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Condition of the lending
Taking out suitable protection was a requirement to Mr C1 and Mr C2s fathers business 
overdraft extension being agreed. Theyve provided a letter from the bank manager at the 
time confirming this.
Whilst I understand Mr C1 and Mr C2 consider ReAssure should be held responsible for this, 
I dont agree. This is because the policy was sold by Barclays Life who, as Ive previously 
explained, ReAssure have since acquired liability for. 
But any conditions to the lending being approved were decided by the bank. And as such not 
the responsibility of ReAssure who this complaint is against.
Because of this, any complaint point related to the requirement of the policy for the lending 
to be approved should be directed to the bank. Im not able to comment further here.
Suitability of the policy
As Ive said above, it was a condition of the lending for Mr C1 and Mr C2 to have in place a 
suitable life assurance and critical illness policy.
So, in arranging the Lifestages policy, which provided a level amount of cover for an ongoing 
term, ReAssure provided a policy that was appropriate to satisfy this condition. As such, 
given the extension of the overdraft went ahead on the terms set out by the bank, I cant say 
that ReAssure has done anything wrong.
ReAssures adviser represented only Barclays Life so would have had a limited range of 
products available to them. The adviser had no obligation to recommended clients look 
elsewhere if they had a suitable offering.
The policy recommended had a minimum monthly premium of £15.00 and because of this 
they received a higher level of cover than the amount borrowed. It is noted on the 
documentation available from the time that the additional cover, in excess to the borrowing, 
was to be paid into the business had a claim needed to have been made.
I acknowledge the bank couldnt have compelled this to have happened, but it would have 
been an option that the beneficiary of the policy couldve opted to do had they wished.
Similarly, nor could the bank have recovered the borrowing via the policy if, as it is disputed, 
they failed to assign it themselves. But again, this would have been an issue for the bank to 
overcome had the issue arisen. ReAssure recommended a policy that provided the cover 
required and it wasnt for them to ensure the cover was then correctly assigned.
Ultimately, ReAssure recommended a whole of life policy that provided ongoing life 
assurance and critical cover to fulfil a requirement to agree an extension to an ongoing 
overdraft facility. The amount of cover was determined by the policy premium being set to the minimum available cost.
In my view, Im satisfied the recommendation made was suitable and I dont think ReAssure 
need to do anything to put things right here.
Commission 
Mr C1 and Mr C2 have repeatedly asked ReAssure to confirm what commission was 
charged on the policy but have not received a response. To date, this point had not been 
addressed by the Financial Ombudsman Service either.
Ive not been provided any information on the commission payable on this policy and due to 
the passage of time thats passed since the policy ended, approximately 20 years, this 
information may not be available. 
But that doesnt mean ReAssure shouldnt respond to Mr C1 and Mr C2s question. Theyve 
simply asked what commission was charged on the policy. ReAssure should provide the 
information requested or, should it not be available, tell them this.
All parties provided comments in response to my provisional decision. And theyve also now 
confirmed they have no further comments to add. Ive considered everything provided. And 
having done so, my overall decision remains the same. Ill explain why.
ReAssure responded to confirm, due to the length of time thats passed since the policy 
ended, they have limited documentation from the time of the sale and have been unable to 
find any records of the commission that wouldve been paid.
ReAssure offered to clarify this to Mr C1 and Mr C2. Mr C1 and Mr C2 have accepted this 
offer, and our Investigator has now asked ReAssure to write out to them directly. Because of 
this I wont comment further on it in my decision.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 raised questions about the protection being a condition of the borrowing, a 
condition that was put in place by the bank manager at the time. They remain of the opinion 
a cheaper option, that wouldve allowed an amount of protection that matched that of the 
borrowing, wouldve been more suitable. But they also acknowledge there was no real 
choice due to the specific protection policy requested as a condition of lending, again by the 
bank manager. I agree. And for the reasons Ive previously explained, I remain satisfied the 
policy recommended by ReAssure was suitable for the circumstances at the time.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 also raised questions around ReAssures inability to confirm the amount of 
commission paid. They at least think they should be able to provide an idea of the 
percentages paid on this specific policy type at the time, or that they should be able to 
confirm if there was a minimum set-up fee.
I understand the lack of information available must be frustrating for Mr C1 and Mr C2. But I 
must consider the circumstances of the case brought to me. As Ive previously said 
ReAssure should tell Mr C1 and Mr C2 what commission was paid on the policy or, should it 
not be available, tell them this. This is what ReAssure have now done.
In summary, Ive considered the additional information provided by all parties, along with all 
the evidence presented to me. But Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the 
one I reached previously.
ReAssure have agreed to confirm they no longer hold any information regarding the 
commission paid in relation to this policy directly with Mr C1 and Mr C2. And our investigator has now asked them to do this in writing.
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont consider ReAssure 
needs to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman