DRN-4365297
The complaint
Mr W complains Amtrust Europe Limited misadvised him about the cover available under his 
legal expenses insurance policy in relation to a dispute with his neighbour and declined his 
claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust, I include their claims handlers and agents. 
What happened
Mr W had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust Europe Limited as part of his home 
insurance policy. He made a claim for his costs of defending an application for adverse 
possession his neighbours were making against him.
Amtrust said initially the policy didnt cover Mr Ws claim. But they said they could consider 
providing cover if the matter was referred to the First Tier Tribunal (FTT). Mr W disagreed 
with Amtrusts assessment. Following exchanges of correspondence, he understood Amtrust 
had confirmed it would provide cover once his dispute with the neighbours had reached the 
FTT. Mr W went back to Amtrust once the dispute had reached that stage. But they told him 
then there was no cover under the policy at all since his dispute with the neighbours fell 
outside its terms. 
Mr W didnt agree. He felt his case involved a trespass, since the neighbour was claiming 
ownership of his land, and that it fell within the policy terms on that basis. He said Amtrust 
couldnt change their minds about covering the claim since theyd confirmed they would. And 
he said that if hed known his claim wouldnt be covered, he would have tried to settle the 
dispute with his neighbour to avoid incurring costs later on.
Amtrust considered Mr Ws complaint. In summary they said:
They hadnt confirmed they would provide cover, only that theyd consider a claim if 
he brought it back to them once the dispute had reached FTT stage. 
They noted Mr Ws point that their helpline had confirmed his claim was covered. But 
they explained the helpline only offered general advice, based on information given 
to them verbally without access to policy wording, and didnt make decisions about 
cover. 
Theyd mis-advised Mr W that there was a section of the policy that applied to the 
claim, and they offered Mr W £100 to settle the complaint because of that. 
Since Mr W was defending an application for adverse possession it didnt amount to 
pursuing a claim for nuisance or trespass. So, they werent able to provide 
assistance. 
They acknowledged Mr W disagreed with their interpretation of the policy and they 
offered to consider any further evidence he submitted. 
Mr W didnt accept Amtrusts response to his complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. While Mr W was waiting for us to consider his complaint, Amtrust 
obtained legal advice. The solicitors advised, broadly, there was no evidence of trespass 
based on the available information. Amtrust continued to decline the claim based on the 
solicitors advice. They said theyd consider any further information or documentation Mr W 
might want to provide and ask their solicitors to consider if it changed their view. They also 
said he could get a legal assessment from his own solicitors, on certain conditions and at his 
own expense, setting out why the claim would be covered and the prospects of success. 
They said if that opinion was supportive, they would then obtain Counsels opinion and, if 
that was supportive, they would cover the claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr W had cover under the policy for defending an adverse 
possession claim or that Amtrust had declined the claim unfairly. And she thought it was fair 
for them to rely on the solicitors advice to continue to decline the claim. Our investigator 
acknowledged what Amtrust had said about covering the claim could have been clearer. But 
she thought the appropriate remedy for that was compensation, and that the £100 
compensation Amtrust had offered was fair.
Since Mr W didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules we expect insurers to consider claims promptly 
and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ive considered Mr Ws complaint against 
that background. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive taken account of the detailed points the parties have both made. I may not mention 
everything theyve told us here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I consider key in coming to my 
decision. As Ill explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for similar 
reasons.
Mr W had cover under his LEI policy for costs of up to £150,000 for claims accepted under 
the Property Infringement section, subject to all the terms, conditions and exclusions set 
out in the policy.
The Property Infringement section of the policy covered:
Advisers Costs to pursue actions for nuisance or trespass against the person or 
organisation infringing Your legal rights in relation to Your main home. This section 
does not extend to divorce or matrimonial matters. The nuisance or trespass must 
have started at least 180 days after You first purchased this insurance or purchased 
similar insurance which expired immediately before this insurance began.
Cover was limited to where Mr W was taking action against someone, and then only where 
that action involved a claim for trespass or nuisance. Mr W was initially seeking cover for the 
costs of negotiations that were part of the Land Registrys process in relation to the adverse 
possession proceedings that the neighbour was making against him. Even though he said 
the next step would be an appearance at the FTT, Mr W would have been defending the 
neighbours adverse possession action there. So, it wasnt unreasonable for Amtrust to 
decline the claim based on the cover the policy provided.
Ive considered whether the exchanges that took place between Amtrust and Mr W after the 
claim had been declined mean its fair to ask Amtrust to meet the claim even though it wasnt 
covered. Im not persuaded they do. Ill explain why.Mr W says the legal helpline told him his claim was covered. Legal helplines offered by LEI 
insurers commonly provide first stage legal advice based on information the caller provides. 
Amtrusts said thats how their helpline works and that the helpline wouldnt have had access 
to the policy wording. 
The policy set out under the heading Legal Helpline that it provided telephone advice on 
any private legal problem. That reflects the limited nature of the service the helpline gave. 
The policy set out separately the process for resolving complaints between Mr W and 
Amtrust. And cover was excluded under the policy for disputes between Mr W and Amtrust. 
I think Amtrust suggested Mr W contact the helpline in the context of requiring advice about 
the dispute with his neighbour rather than about policy cover. And, although the policy 
required Mr W to contact the legal helpline initially to make a claim, it ought to have been 
clear from the contact he then had with Amtrust, that decisions about policy coverage and 
claims were made by the claims team. 
Bearing all these points in mind, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr W to think the helpline 
could provide a view on policy cover on which he could rely. 
Amtrust acknowledged theyd given Mr W the impression, wrongly, in July 2022 that, based 
on the information hed given them, there was a section in the policy that was applicable to 
his claim. However, although I think Amtrust should have made things clearer, they didnt 
say they would definitely cover the claim, only that theyd consider a claim if things got to the 
FTT. Any consideration at that point would have involved looking at whether the terms and 
conditions of the policy were met - such as whether any legal action Mr W wished to take 
had reasonable prospects of success and was proportionate to pursue - and whether any 
exclusions applied. Things hadnt reached that stage. 
Even if the policy had responded, no cover would have been available for negotiations, only 
where Mr W took legal action. Mr W says he would have approached discussions with the 
neighbours differently if hed understood the claim wouldnt be covered at all. Even if Mr W 
had known that, theres no guarantee hed have achieved a satisfactory settlement before 
things got to the FTT. Im not aware Mr W incurred unnecessary costs or that his negotiating 
position was affected. It isnt reasonable to conclude hed have been in any better position. 
And Amtrust had made the policy position clear by early November. So, it was still open to 
Mr W to try and resolve his dispute once theyd told him.
Bearing everything in mind, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require Amtrust to cover the 
claim based on what had happened when they issued their response to Mr Ws complaint in 
January 2023. 
Amtrust agreed to get legal advice about the trespass issue. From what I understand, they 
were prepared to look at whether Mr W might have a claim against the neighbour for 
trespass or nuisance so as to bring him within the policy cover in some way. I think that was 
a reasonable response from Amtrust.
Amtrust shared the advice they got from the solicitors with Mr W. And they put Mr Ws 
objections about the solicitors conclusions to them for consideration. But the solicitors didnt 
change their advice to Amtrust. Im aware Mr W still disagrees with it. But I cant decide if the 
advice was right or wrong. I can only consider whether it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely 
on it. From a laymans point of view, theres nothing obviously wrong with the advice and Im 
not aware it contains any factual errors. The solicitors giving the advice were appropriately 
qualified and had relevant experience. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely 
on it in continuing to decline the claim. Amtrust have given Mr W the opportunity of submitting his own legal advice in response to 
their solicitors advice. Provided the advice meets certain conditions and addresses certain 
issues, if it supports Mr Ws policy claim, Amtrust say they will pay for a barristers opinion. 
And they say that if that opinion supports the claim, they will provide cover. I think thats a 
fair way of taking things forward for Mr W bearing everything in mind.
I know Mr W would have liked us to consider the legal advice he is getting before coming to 
a decision about this complaint. But even if the advice he gets supports his position, I 
wouldnt be able to decide if Amtrust should cover that complaint. Both parties have had the 
chance of commenting on the solicitors advice Amtrust obtained. And Amtrust need to have 
the chance of considering Mr Ws legal advice before we do to see if it changes their mind 
about policy cover. If it doesnt, and Mr W remains unhappy, he can complain again. And if 
hes unhappy with Amtrusts response, he can bring a new complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Considering everything, I think the £100 compensation Amtrust offered Mr W was fair and 
reasonable to resolve his complaint bearing in mind they wrongly advised him a section of 
the policy would respond to his claim before clarifying things. So, for the reasons Ive set out, 
whilst I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling and acknowledge he will be disappointed, I 
dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman