DRN-2483208
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the compensation that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside his mortgage.
What happened
Mr W took out his mortgage in August 1989 and believes he took out a PPI policy at the 
same time. He complained to BOS that the PPI policy associated with his mortgage had was 
mis-sold. But BOS didnt agree, and Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
We recommended BOS should uphold the complaint that the PPI related to the mortgage 
was mis-sold, which BOS agreed to do, and it then made an offer of compensation to settle 
Mr Ws complaint.
BOS offered a total of £1,604.81 in compensation after tax. Mr W wasnt happy with this 
amount as he felt it should be much more. BOS had calculated the compensation on the 
basis the PPI started in October 2009 and ended in March 2014. Mr W said the PPI started 
when the mortgage was taken out in 1989 so it hadnt used the correct dates.
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence available and explained to Mr W that this indicated 
the PPI was taken out in 2009 and there was nothing to show it was taken out earlier. So the 
offer made by BOS was fair.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS has now agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint that the PPI was mid-sold and to pay 
compensation. This compensation is to refund the costs of the PPI that Mr W paid and also 
to pay some compensatory interest for the time Mr W was out of pocket. In this decision I am 
not looking at how the PPI came to be sold to Mr W, but considering if what has been offered 
in compensation is fair. 
I note when BOS originally said it wasnt upholding Mr Ws mis-sale complaint it did offer to 
pay back to him some £44.10 for excess commission he was charged. I understand that 
BOS has paid this amount to Mr W. This commission was part of the total cost of the 
premiums Mr W paid for the PPI. So as BOS has now said it will uphold the complaint and 
pay Mr W back everything he paid the for PPI, this commission payment was taken into 
account by BOS when making its calculation of the full compensation for the mis-sale. That 
is fair, providing Mr W did receive this payment.
In working out compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy I would expect BOS to put Mr W, as 
far as possible, in the position he would have been in if he hadnt taken out the PPI. In this 
case Mr W paid a monthly premium for the PPI so BOS needs to refund to Mr W all the 
premiums he paid. Also, because he was out of pocket for this money, BOS needs to pay 
him compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple for each year he was out of pocket from 
the date of payment to the date the costs of the PPI are refunded.
Mr W has been unable to provide any documents or information about his mortgage or the 
PPI policy. This isnt surprising when he took out the original mortgage over 30 years ago. 
As it was so long ago BOS also doesnt have full records of the account but it does have 
some records about the account.
The records BOS has been able to provide are computer records and it has shared with this 
service copies of screenshots that relate to the account. These show that Mr W applied for 
his mortgage of £50,000 in August 1989. This was an Endowment mortgage so at the same 
time Mr W took out an Endowment Policy related to repaying his mortgage. This Policy was 
nothing at all to do with the PPI and the records provided as evidence do not show anything 
at all to indicate that a PPI policy was taken out at this time in 1989.
In 2009 the records show Mr W took out a further advance for £12,589 and at this time it is 
indicated that Mr W did take out a PPI policy. The screenshots show that information was 
captured and recorded about Mr Ws circumstances, for example relating to if he was in 
permanent employment, if he was aware of impending unemployment, if he had seen a 
doctor recently etc. This information was discussed with Mr W, as it related to his application 
for the PPI policy. 
The records also indicate that a quote for the PPI was given to Mr W in August 2009. This 
indicated the cost of £12 per month for a benefit of £307.83 to be paid per month in the 
event of a claim, and the policy was to cover him for unemployment only. The loan and 
policy were effective in September 2009, with the first premium for the PPI being taken on 1 
October 2009.
All this indicates that Mr W definitely took out a PPI policy in 2009 when applying for this 
further advance on his mortgage. Another further advance was then taken out in 2011 and at 
this point the PPI premiums increased slightly to cover the increase in the amount of benefit 
that would be needed in the event of a claim.
The records of BOS do seem fairly accurate and contain quite a bit of detail about Mr Ws 
mortgage account. But there is nothing at all to indicate Mr W took out a PPI policy in 1989, 
only that he applied for one and took it out in 2009 and later amended the cover when he 
took out further advances. 
Based on everything I have seen I am not satisfied that Mr W took out a PPI policy in 1989. 
There is no evidence of this at all on the business records, and Mr W has been unable to 
provide any evidence to support his recollections about taking out a PPI policy when he first 
applied for his mortgage in 1989.
Therefore, as the evidence indicates the policy attached to Mr Ws mortgage started in 2009, 
the calculations undertaken for the compensation by BOS are correct and I believe the 
amount of compensation offered is fair. The detail provided about the calculations show the 
PPI cost increased as Mr W took out further advances from 2009 and all the actual 
premiums for the amounts paid are included in the calculation. 
I know Mr W feels he paid PPI premiums from the time he took out his mortgage in 1989, but 
the evidence presented shows that this was not the case. Mr W did take out an Endowment 
Policy with his Endowment Mortgage in 1989 and it is possible his recollections of what happened over 30 years ago may be confusing this policy with the PPI policy taken out 10 
years later. 
I am satisfied the calculation BOS has done takes account of all the premiums that were 
paid whilst the mortgage and policy were active and that what it has calculated and offered 
to pay as compensation to Mr W is fair. 
I understand Mr W may not have cashed the cheque he was sent for the compensation. If 
that is the case BOS will need to cancel this cheque and reissue a new cheque, after 
updating the compensatory interest to the date it issues the final payment to Mr W, as he is 
still out of pocket for the costs of the PPI.
As I indicated earlier, BOS has said it paid £44.10 to Mr W for excess commission at the 
time it wasnt agreeing to uphold the mis-sale complaint. If Mr W was paid and received this 
amount, then it is fair for BOS to deduct it from the total costs of the PPI premiums, 
otherwise Mr W would be paid back twice for part of what he paid for the PPI. BOS has 
shown the amendment for this amount in its calculation, which is fair providing Mr W did 
receive this payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I think that what Bank of Scotland plc has offered in 
compensation to Mr W for the mis-sold PPI is fair. So I am not directing Bank of Scotland plc 
to pay anything more than what it has offered, unless it needs to reissue the cheque and 
update the compensatory interest, or make any adjustment for the commission paid 
previously, if this was not received by Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman