DRN-3055792
The complaint
Miss W complains MBNA Limited treated her unfairly when closing her account and reduced 
her credit limit despite saying it wouldnt. She wants compensation for the way she was 
treated and for the loss she says she was caused.
What happened
Much of what follow repeats the background facts I covered in my provisional decision. It is, 
however, important I restate those same facts for the purposes of issuing a final decision.
Miss W held an MBNA credit card. She also held a variety of other accounts with other firms 
who belong to the same group company as MBNA. In 2019 a decision was made to close all 
the accounts she held with different firms in the group.
Miss W sent a letter to the chief executive of the group. She suspected her accounts were 
closed due to considerable amounts of money which represented her savings, passing 
through a current account held with another firm in the group. She moved the funds to get a 
better return on her savings and says some of the savings accounts she paid money into 
required payments to be made from a current account. She believes the decision to exit her 
failed to follow the principles for exiting a customer, as set out by UK Finance, a trade 
association for the banking and finance sector.
MBNA hasnt said the credit card account was closed as a result of what happened on its 
account. So, if Miss W wants our service to consider a complaint about how fair it was to exit 
her because of what happened on her current account, that complaint would need to be 
considered against the firm who provided the account. This decision only relates to MBNA.
Miss W says MBNA agreed to manage the closure of her account as if she had rejected a 
recent change to the accounts terms and conditions. This was so the account wouldnt be 
reported to credit reference agencies as closed by MBNA, which could have a negative 
impact on her credit profile. She says MBNA agreed not to lower her credit limit while she 
paid off her remaining balance.
MBNA went on to report a lower credit limit for the credit card to credit reference agencies. 
Miss W says this meant a higher credit utilisation percentage was reported for the account 
and this had a negative impact on what mortgage deal she could secure with a third-party 
lender.
MBNA says Miss W misunderstood what was agreed, and it only agreed to not lower the 
credit limit to below her outstanding balance.
An investigator at our service decided not to uphold the complaint. They found MBNA most 
likely agreed not to lower the credit limit it reported. But it shouldnt have agreed to do this 
because it wasnt an accurate reflection of the account. So, they werent going to award 
compensation as MBNA were entitled to reduce the limit under the terms of the account.
Miss W disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. She asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision in 
November 2021 and upheld Miss Ws complaint. My findings are copied below:
I have listened to the calls Miss W and her representative had with MBNA about how the 
account would be closed and what if anything would change about how the account would 
be reported. Miss W is right about what MBNA told her. One MBNA employee said the terms 
and conditions of the account would still apply, so the interest free period would remain, as 
would the monthly minimum repayment terms. And another MBNA employee promised to 
check that the credit limit wasnt reduced. They said sometimes this happens, but they would 
check the limit and if it was reduced, they would change it back to what it was.
MBNA said the account would only be reported as closed once the balance was cleared. 
And I dont find MBNA had to report a lower credit limit. If that were the case, I find it would 
have lowered her credit limit on multiple occasions to just above her outstanding balance to 
reflect that Miss W couldnt borrow anything further on the card.
MBNA may have a process to report a reduced credit limit in circumstances similar to those 
which Miss W found herself in, but I find it made an agreement with her not to report a 
reduced limit so that the limit wasnt affected by the closure. And they agreed to correct the 
credit limit if it was lowered. So, Im satisfied Miss W kept making repayments in line with 
what was agreed, but MBNA didnt keep to what it said it would do. 
I agree that having a higher credit utilization percentage in relation to one account could 
impact negatively on what products a customer might qualify for with other lenders. But I 
havent seen persuasive evidence to demonstrate Miss W would most likely have been 
granted the mortgage product had her credit limit remained the same. There are many 
reasons why a lender may not proceed with a mortgage application other than a high credit 
utilization being reported for one account. Its clear, however, that she had a very high credit 
limit and not having adverse indicators is important to her. So, I find her knowing that there 
was a negative indicator on her credit file would have caused her distress.
MBNA made a significant error when it sent Miss W a letter. Although the letter concerned 
Miss W it was addressed to a customer with a different name. This would have no doubt 
concerned Miss W being as she felt her accounts were closed due to an unfair analysis of 
her activity and/or the information held about her. Its clear this would have led her to believe 
MBNA hadnt taken enough care to address her concerns. And, I find the error likely had 
more impact than it might otherwise have due to Miss W grieving the then recent loss of her 
father.
MBNA was entitled to end its relationship with Miss W. It acted on an instruction by the 
group company, so the decision wasnt based on the activity on her MBNA account. And, as 
I have said, a complaint about the overall decision to exit Miss W because of the activity 
which occurred on a current account held with another firm should be addressed against that 
firm. I havent seen evidence to show Miss W being a victim of impersonation fraud in the 
past was related to the decision to close her accounts.
I am inclined to direct MBNA to pay Miss W £400. I find this is a reasonable sum to 
compensate her for:
-The distress she no doubt felt over a prolonged period as a result of MBNA reporting 
a reduced credit limit, and her reasonable belief that this would impact on her ability 
to obtain certain lending products.-The distress she was caused by receiving a letter which referred to another 
customer.
MBNA responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Miss W also responded and 
accepted most of what I had said. But she feels she provided enough circumstantial 
evidence to conclude she most likely lost out on a mortgage deal because of MBNAs error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Those reasons are copied above and form part of this decision.
Miss W says she cannot prove beyond reasonable doubt that she didnt get the mortgage 
deal she wanted because the MBNA account was reported as having a higher credit 
utilisation percentage. But she feels there is enough circumstantial evidence to fairly 
conclude this is why her application failed. I disagree. I dont find the evidence I have is 
sufficient to conclude its more likely than not that her application failed because of this one 
factor.
The granting of a mortgage can be contingent on many factors, some of which may be 
known or unknown to Miss W. Certainly existing credit utilisation may be one of them, and 
this may have more import depending on the type of mortgage she sought. But there can be 
lots of other factors which I simply cannot know, and which may not be solely predicated on 
someones credit file. 
I understand Miss W believes there can be no other factors to explain why her application 
was refused, and I have no reason to doubt this is her honest belief. But I am not going to 
award any more redress than what I recommended in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I direct MBNA to pay Miss W £400 to make up for the distress she was caused as a result of 
MBNAs errors.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint and I direct MBNA Limited to pay Miss W £400.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman