DRN-1769801
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined their claim on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F were on holiday abroad and missed the departure of their return flight to the 
UK. This was because the cruise ship they were on got delayed in docking at Venice. 
Due to the missed departure, Mr and Mrs F had to stay overnight in Venice to catch the next 
available flight to UK.
They made a claim on their travel insurance policy but it was declined by the business. It 
said the policy only covered missed departure for outward journeys from the UK, not inbound 
flights.
Mr and Mrs F have explained that they werent aware of this exclusion and feel it shouldve 
been brought to their attention at the time of purchase.
The business has said it thinks the policy document and the summary insurance product 
information document (IPID) is clear enough in setting out what is and isnt covered. 
Our investigator looked into things and recommended that the complaint be upheld as she 
felt the business had declined the claim unfairly. She said the exclusion of cover for missed 
departure on inbound flights was significant and wasnt highlighted to Mr and Mrs F before 
they agreed to take out the policy. 
The business disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly, and it shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably. So, Ive looked at everything to decide if thats what happened in this 
case.
Mr and Mrs Fs policy only covers missed departure for an outward journey, which is 
unusual. I consider this to be a significant restriction on cover which needs to be highlighted 
in the policy documentation. This is because customers need to know about any significant 
exclusions or unusual limitations, before deciding to purchase a policy. 
Ive reviewed all the available policy documentation and I didnt think the business was clear 
enough about the very limited cover Mr and Mrs F S had under missed departure. Im not 
satisfied it highlighted the fact that they were only covered for missing their flight out of the 
UK, and not on the return leg of their journey. 
The exclusion is only mentioned on page 19 of the policy booklet which Im unable to say is 
sufficient to draw such a significant limitation to the attention of the reader. 
I also note that there is a list of exclusions included on the schedule of cover under the 
heading what is not insured. It is reasonable to expect the missed departure exclusion to 
have appeared on this list, but it didnt.  
Ive also carefully considered the IPID because the business says it makes the exclusion 
clear in this document. But I disagree. There is a heading entitled if you miss your departure 
from the UK but this isnt enough to highlight there isnt any cover for missed departure into 
the UK. 
Mr and Mrs F had a reasonable expectation that their travel insurance policy would cover 
missed departure on both outward and return journeys  as this is fairly standard cover 
across most polices. But without the restriction being highlighted they were not alerted to the 
fact they needed to purchase an alternative policy to obtain cover for both journeys. 
I think if the business had highlighted the fact that it only intended to cover missed departure 
on outbound flights, Mr and Mrs F would have bought a different policy which covered 
missed departure for both outbound and inbound flights. 
As this significant limitation to the policy wasnt highlighted to Mr and Mrs F, I think its fair for 
the business to pay the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. And add simple interest at 8% from the date Mr and Mrs F paid the costs up to the 
date the business issues its payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman