DRN-2809530
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging their 
success fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. She said shed only asked them 
to carry out a free PPI check.
What happened
In August 2019 Ms C asked FTR to check whether shed been mis-sold PPI with any of her 
lenders. Ms C said that her understanding was that if FTR found shed any PPI they would 
let her know so that she could decide how she wanted to proceed. In October 2019, she said 
she was told by FTR that they wouldnt progress any claims until she decided what she 
wanted to do. Ms C said shed received links to PPI questionnaires (PPIQ), and said she 
was told that she needed to complete them for her claim to progress. Ms C said she never 
completed or returned the PPIQs to FTR. She said she was also told the 14-day cooling off 
period to cancel her agreement wouldnt begin until a letter of complaint was submitted to 
her lenders.
Ms C said shed gone direct to her lenders to make her claims, and had been working with 
one of her lenders, Ill call L about any mis-sold PPI on her accounts. And in March 2020, 
Ms C said L told her that her PPI had been mis-sold and offered her compensation for this. 
But she later received invoices from FTR asking her to pay their success fee. She 
complained to FTR.
FTR said Ms C had digitally signed their letter of authority (LoA) for them to check whether 
shed been mis-sold PPI. And in signing the LoA shed agreed to their terms and conditions. 
They said shed been told incorrectly in a call in October 2019 about when the 14 day 
cooling off period would begin. But this information had been corrected in later calls. FTR 
said as L had auto converted Ms Cs claim they hadnt needed a PPIQ to further her claim. 
FTR said they informed Ms C that PPI had been found with accounts she had with L in 
February 2020. As Ms Cs claims with L were successful FTR said their fee was justified.
FTR also said that one of Ms Cs lenders Ill call S had asked for a signed (wet not digital 
signature) LoA. And as Ms C hadnt signed or returned the LoA theyd cancelled the 
agreement and wouldnt be asking for a fee on any successful claim. 
Ms C said shed been mis-lead by FTR and that she hadnt authorised them to act on her 
behalf in pursuing any mis-sold PPI claims. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Ms C had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And that they were 
acting fairly and reasonably in asking for their success fee. 
Ms C didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I think most likely happened. 
FTR feel strongly that Ms C had agreed to use their services and that it was because of their 
enquiry her claim with L was successful. I can also understand Ms Cs frustration as she 
doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms C had authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Ms Cs lenders, 
including L in August 2019, ten days before the deadline for making such claims. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms C has given this 
service. And she doesnt dispute she completed the on line application but that she 
understood it was only an agreement for a free PPI check.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR  has shown the screens Ms C would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Ms C about her personal details and lenders. 
On completing the application, FTR has said a LoA would be generated, populated with this 
information. and this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to 
add a date. As Ms C isnt disputing, she made the application Ive no reason to doubt she 
would have signed the agreement before it was submitted.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Ms C had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
Ive listened to the call Ms C had with FTR in October 2019. The call is predominately about 
claims she had with another lender S. Ms C says she has contacted S herself. She also 
discusses the PPIQ and is told that the 14 day cooling off period wouldnt start until a letter 
of complaint was sent by FTR to her lender. Its agreed that Ms C would consider what she wanted to do and a call back was arranged for the following week. I can see that the 
promised call-back was made by FTR but Ms C didnt respond.
Ive also listened to a call Ms C had with FTR in January 2020. Again, the main discussion is 
about her claims with S. Ms C again seeks clarification about how the claims process 
worked and that she was hesitating about using FTRs services. She asks at what point 
she would have to make a decision and is told that the 14 days started from when she 
agreed to the terms and conditions, and that she would still be liable for FTRs fees if 
successful even if she goes direct to her lender. Ms C does say that this doesnt seem fair. 
But at no point in the call does she say she wants to stop using FTRs services. And goes on 
to discuss the status of her claims with her other lenders. Shes told that several have 
responded that PPI hadnt been found. But they were still waiting for a response from L and 
a couple of other lenders.
FTRs records show that they were notified that PPI had been found for Ms Cs claims with 
L in February 2020. And I can see that Ms C was sent notification of this the same month. 
The notification includes Ms Cs FTR reference number and said You have paid PPI. Claim 
your refund now. So, from this point FTR would have been providing their claims service. 
The same notification refers Ms C to a link to complete the PPIQ. 
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC) 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So, 
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the 
information could be used to support the claim and strengthen the claim that the PPI policy 
was mis-sold. I know Ms C didnt complete or return the PPIQ, but I can see the notification 
also says: Please note: you may be unable to claim a PPI refund unless you have 
completed the PPI questionnaire. It doesnt say that by not completing the PPIQ her claim 
wouldnt progress. 
L converted the LoA submitted by FTR into a claim and progressed the claim without the 
need for the PPIQ. And I dont think simply disengaging from the process by not completing 
the PPIQ is enough for FTR to take from it that Ms C didnt want to use their claims service. 
So, Im satisfied Ms C authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue her claim(s) with L. 
And by FTR submitting Ms Cs LoA before the August 2019 deadline L investigated her 
claim for mis- sold PPI.
I understand Ms Cs frustration about being initially told the 14 day cooling off period 
wouldnt start until a letter of complaint had been submitted to her lender. FTRs terms and 
conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
And give details of the various channels Ms C could have used to cancel the agreement. 
Even if I take the date the cooling off period started, not from the date the LoA was signed. 
But from when Ms C was told PPI had been found, which meant FTRs claims service had 
begun. I still havent seen any evidence of Ms C asking FTR to stop providing their services 
to her.
Ms C said she went direct to L to make her claim. But I can see that L has told Ms C that 
for her PPI claim theyd acted on the LoA that had been submitted to them by a CMC, which 
is what FTR are. And the notification sent by L to inform Ms C that her PPI claim had been 
successful, shows a reference to Quickly Finance Limited. I think this may have been confusing for Ms C as throughout her contact the CMC has only referred to themselves by 
their trading name, FTR.  But I can see that L also referenced Ms Cs FTR customer 
number, the same number shed been given on her previous notifications from FTR. So, I 
think this shows L saw FTR  as Ms Cs representative in making her PPI claims. 
The agreement Ms C had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Ms Cs claims were 
successful.
I know Ms C will be disappointed with my decision. But I think shed authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her claim(s) were successful. 
So, I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking her to pay their success 
fee(s).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman