DRN-3972599
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) misled her as to the impact 
that Covid repayment plans would have upon her personal loan.  
What happened
Mrs B has been represented throughout her correspondence with this service. For purposes 
of clarity, however, I will address this decision directly to her.
Mrs B took out a personal loan with NatWest. By April 2020, she says that the impact of the 
Covid pandemic and its associated restrictions meant that she was unable to make her 
repayments. She contacted NatWest, and a six-month payment deferral was agreed.
This deferral came to an end in November 2020, and Mrs B contacted the bank again to 
seek a further deferral. NatWest says that such deferrals were only agreed for a maximum of 
six months, and that it was necessary to explore Mrs Bs income and expenditure to see 
whether a payment plan could be agreed.
NatWest says that a three-month payment plan of £30 per month was agreed, which was 
then extended for a further three months. The payments were made by direct debit. At this 
point, in May 2021, NatWest says that it attempted to contact Mrs B to seek to discuss her 
account but was unable to do so. It says that it could not continue to collect £30 per month 
until it had spoken with Mrs B.
Mrs B says that NatWest did not make proper efforts to contact her in May and had caused 
her to misunderstand how interest would build on the account during the payment deferral 
and payment plans. She also says that NatWest failed to properly note on her file that she 
wished for her husband to have authority to discuss her account with the bank in her 
absence. 
The bank considered its notes from this time, and agreed that the information it had provided 
was likely unclear or inconsistent. It says that it had no record of a mandate being sent to 
permit direct communication with her husband, but that this could be arranged by contacting 
the collections team. It paid her £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by 
any errors in communication.
Mrs B says that the bank had led her to believe that a further term extension would be 
available following the end of the agreement in May 2021. NatWest says that any further 
plans would require a further income and expenditure assessment in order to permit an 
affordability check. It says that it could not set up a direct debit in the meantime, but that 
manual payments could still be made by Mrs B. It agreed that its communications on the 
point had likely been unclear, and paid Mrs B a further £100.
Mrs B says that NatWest ought to have sent a direct debit mandate to her when it wrote to 
her in June 2021. NatWest says that, while a payment plan could not be agreed until income 
and expenditure had been properly explored, it ought to have been more proactive in 
arranging for a direct debit mandate to be provided. It paid Mrs B a further £75, and waived 
an arrears payment which had fallen due in the meantime. It says that it also ensured that 
this delay would have no impact upon Mrs Bs credit file.
Our investigator thought that the bank had made mistakes, but that it had already taken 
appropriate steps to put things right. It had paid £325, waived an arrears charge, and 
ensured that this possible delay that it had caused did not impact Mrs Bs credit file.
Mrs B did not think that this was enough to put things right, and so this has come to me for a 
final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am able to make a decision in relation to complaints which have been put to the bank, 
which has then either provided a final response or else failed to respond. There have been 
several issues raised in correspondence with this service which occurred after the relevant 
responses from the bank, which I am therefore unable to provide a decision upon. I have 
limited myself to those issues which have already been the subject of a complaint to 
NatWest and that it has responded to, in line with the rules that apply to this service.
I have considered what Mrs B says about the banks failure to grant her husband authority to 
handle her account in her absence. I agree with the bank that this is something which has 
likely been requested by Mrs B. But I also note that it cannot find any copy of a written 
mandate to that effect. In the absence of a written mandate, I think it was reasonable for 
NatWest to make sure that Mrs B consented to her husbands discussions with it.
NatWest says that its communications with Mrs B around the financial support and plans it 
was offering and providing were likely unclear. Having reviewed the contact notes and 
considered what Mrs B says that she believed would happen, I agree that this is likely the 
case. It is important that banks make clear to customers what is being offered so a customer 
can make an informed decision on how to proceed, and I do not think that this was done 
properly here. The banks communications with Mrs B about how plans could be extended or 
revisited left her with the impression that this would be straightforward, or even automatic. 
She was also left unclear about how interest would accrue on the account during repayment 
plans. This was not fair, and NatWest should have been clearer in its communications. I 
must, therefore, consider what was the impact of this upon Mrs B, and what would have 
happened if NatWest had got things right.
Having done so, while this will no doubt be a difficult message for her, I am satisfied that Mrs 
Bs position would not have been any different. Her financial troubles were being caused by 
the wider economic landscape, and I cant see that additional clarity from the bank around 
the support being offered would have enabled her to make the payments which were 
ultimately due to the account. NatWest put in place a six-month payment holiday, which was 
reasonable and in line with the Financial Conduct Authority guidance. But at the end of that 
holiday, Mrs B was still unable to make the contractual payments. 
At this stage, it was the banks policy to investigate whether any payments were affordable 
to Mrs B. In order to assess this, it took details of her income and expenditure. I am satisfied 
that this was a reasonable way to investigate her position. It was an appropriate and 
unintrusive way of finding out what she could afford to pay. Having done so, a three-month 
payment plan was agreed. This was then extended for a further three months. 
I am satisfied that Mrs B was paying all that she could afford, but I also have to consider that 
her payments were below the contractual amounts due, and interest would continue to be 
charged on the outstanding amount. Plans like this arent intended to be long term solutions 
to customers financial difficulties. So when the plan ended, I am satisfied that it was 
reasonable to seek to revisit the question after six months of such payments, so see what 
Mrs Bs situation was then and to explore whether it had changed.
So, while Mrs B continued to pay £30 after this plan ended, I cant see that was ever agreed 
as a way forward with NatWest. So it was reasonable to want to speak to Mrs B again before 
collecting any further payments. Given that there was no more information available to the 
bank at this stage, and no agreement in place, I do not think that the failure to send a direct 
debit mandate caused a further delay. While Mrs B might have wanted to continue to send 
£30 per month, sending in a completed direct debit mandate would not have put in place a 
relevant agreement.In summary, then, Mrs B paid all that she could afford during a period of serious financial 
difficulty. I am satisfied that the bank acted reasonably in agreeing the initial holiday, and in 
agreeing a short-term payment plan to see whether her financial situation would improve. 
But its clear that Mrs Bs financial difficulties are long term and where thats the case, it 
wont always be appropriate to agree to further payment plans or arrangements  because a 
lender is under no obligation to permanently stop the contractual interest and charges being 
applied to an account like this.  While Mrs B might have misunderstood how this would 
impact her credit file, I do not think that this could have led to any different outcome for her. 
Banks have a duty as responsible lenders to provide accurate and up to date information 
about a customers account to the credit reference agencies. I am satisfied that NatWest has 
done so here. It has removed the impact of the delayed direct debit mandate, but the wider 
payment history is recorded correctly.
I can certainly understand Mrs Bs distress at the impact of the Covid pandemic upon her 
finances, and at the communications failures of NatWest in its dealings with her. But, having 
considered carefully the level of distress and inconvenience which was caused by these 
failures, I think that the steps already taken by the bank appropriately reflect this. In the 
circumstances, I am not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman