The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR), 
dealt with her claims for mis-sold payday loans.
What happened
Miss M instructed FTR to make a number of claims on her behalf in August 2018. Although 
most of the claims were cancelled, claims against Lender C and Lender W were successful. 
Miss M was offered £1,575.06 from Lender C. But she didnt receive this money because 
Lender C went into administration. And Lender W offered her £940.97. But they only paid 
her £40.56 because theyd also gone into administration.
Miss M has complained that FTR didnt complete her claims in a timely manner, which 
meant she didnt get the compensation she was entitled to receive.
Our investigator said FTR submitted the claims for Miss M as instructed. He didnt think FTR 
were responsible for the time it took the lenders to deal with the claims, or that the lenders 
went into administration before paying Miss M her compensation. So he didnt think FTR 
needed to pay Miss M the compensation she didnt receive.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She thinks FTR shouldve chased the lenders more 
frequently, and they didnt explain to her that the lenders have gone into administration. So 
shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment for Miss M; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Miss M. She was mis-sold 
payday loans by two different lenders and didnt receive the compensation she was entitled 
to. This wouldve been frustrating and stressful. But, for me to agree FTR should pay Miss M 
the compensation she didnt receive, Id need to be satisfied that she wouldve received this 
but for something FTR did or didnt do. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The administrators reports on the Companies House website show that Lender W went into 
administration on 31 August 2018, and Lender C went into administration on 24 October 
DRN-19100422019. Both lenders had seen an increase in the number of mis-selling complaints theyd 
received in the period before administration. And they werent able to continue to operate as 
a solvent business and pay all of the compensation resulting from these mis-selling claims.
Ive seen that Miss M instructed FTR to make the claims on her behalf on 26 August 2018. 
And Lender W went into administration on 31 August 2018. So, even if FTR had submitted 
the claim on the day they received it  and I wouldnt expect them to because they would 
need to prepare the claim for submission first  Lender W wouldnt have received, reviewed 
and paid out the claim in the 5 working days before they went into administration. 
FTR wouldve had no knowledge that Lender W wouldve been considering administration 
when Miss M instructed them. Nor would they have known that the administrators decided 
there was only going to be enough money to pay a small proportion of successful claims. So 
I dont think FTR did anything wrong in relation to Lender W. And I wont be asking them to 
pay any part of this claim to Miss M.
In respect of C, FTR prepared and submitted the claim on 26 September 2018. But Lender C 
didnt deal with the claim as fast as they shouldve, saying this was because of the high 
volume of complaints theyd received. And, from what Ive seen, Lender C didnt respond to 
Miss Ms claim until after theyd gone into administration in October 2019.
Miss M thinks FTR shouldve chased Lender C about her claim, and she believes that if 
theyd done so shed have received her money. I dont agree this wouldve been the case. 
Lender C had a regulatory obligation to deal with claims in a timely manner but didnt. They 
explained this was because of the volume of complaints theyd received, so FTR chasing 
them wouldnt have meant Lender C wouldve done things any quicker.
FTR couldnt force Lender C to deal with Miss Ms claim sooner, but they couldve taken her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service when they didnt. Had they done this, Lender 
C mayve been directed to deal with the claim. But it wouldnt have been swift to go through 
the Financial Ombudsman Services process. And if Lender C didnt deal with the claim 
quicker at the end of it, Miss Ms only options wouldve been to wait or take court action.
So, while this doesnt mean that FTR shouldnt have chased Lender C, even if they had I 
dont think it wouldve made much difference to the overall timescales. And, even if Miss M 
had received her offer earlier, because Lender C were in financial difficulties (difficulties that 
resulted in them going into administration) it doesnt mean theyd have paid Miss M the 
compensation she was entitled to.
The reasons Miss M didnt receive her compensation from Lender C were down to the 
actions of Lender C. And FTR werent in a position to make Lender C act any differently. So I 
wont be asking FTR to pay any part of this claim to Miss M.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21July2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman