DRN-3184175
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 for the reimbursement of the cost of a vehicle he says wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr W attended a dealership to view a camper van. Having taken the 
vehicle for a test drive he agreed to purchase it and paid a £300 deposit with the credit card 
he held with HSBC. Mr W says that although the camper van was advertised for £13,800, it 
was agreed with the supplying dealership that if he paid an additional £200 it would arrange 
for the vehicle to have a new MOT. A few days later Mr W paid the balance of £13,700 by 
bank transfer to the dealership.
Mr W collected the camper van and drove it home. Mr W says that a short time later he put 
some diesel into the vehicle as there was very little fuel in the tank. Mr W says he was able 
to use the camper van for the next day or so before it then broke down. He called a roadside 
assistance company out to investigate and repair the fault.
The roadside assistance company werent able to fix the camper van and arrangements 
were made for it to be taken back to the supplying dealership. Mr W was supplied with a 
report by the roadside technician which said that the camper van had very very high 
crankcase pressure and a worn engine.
The day after the camper van was delivered back to the dealership, Mr W requested a 
refund of its cost from the retailer. Mr W said he had only had the camper van for three days, 
and driven around 50 miles in it, before it had broken down. He said the vehicle was not fit 
for purpose.
The supplying dealership declined Mr Ws request for reimbursement. It said that following 
an investigation, the fault with the camper van was due to an issue with contaminated fuel 
which had been added by Mr W when he had filled the tank. The supplying dealership said 
there hadnt been any fault previously with the vehicle.
The supplying dealership said that it had the fuel tested by a company but as this particular 
company didnt comply with the necessary regulations to make the results of the testing 
admissible in a court of law, it had arranged for a second sample to be tested. This second 
sample was provided in April 2020 and the analysis also revealed that the fuel was 
contaminated.
The supplying dealer said that although contaminated fuel wasnt something it would be 
liable for, it had, nevertheless, cleaned out the vehicles fuel system and undertaken repairs 
as gesture of goodwill. It said the vehicle was now fully repaired and back in working order.
Mr W declined to collect the camper van and disputed the supplying dealerships explanation 
for the vehicle breaking down. He made a claim to HSBC to be reimbursed the costs of the 
camper van.
HSBC opened a claim under both the chargeback scheme and section 75. Under the 
chargeback scheme, Mr W was reimbursed his £300 deposit, but his section 75 claim was 
eventually declined. HSBC said that the supplying dealer had defended the claim and, from 
the evidence provided, there hadnt been a breach of contract.
Mr W complained to HSBC about its handling of his claims and the decision to decline his 
section 75 claim. He said he didnt accept the results from the testing of the fuel sample as 
this had been undertaken around 70 days after the camper van had been returned to the 
supplying dealer. He said that he had contacted the garage that had supplied the fuel and 
had provided an email from them which said that it had sold about 15,500 litres of diesel that 
day and no other complaints about its quality had been received. Mr W also said he was 
aware the camper van had already been returned by someone else before he had 
purchased it for the same issue, and they had received a full refund from the retailer. Mr W 
said the fault found by the roadside assistance technician indicated a problem with the head 
gasket.
HSBC agreed that Mr Ws claim should have been handled better. It accepted he had been 
misled about the length of time an investigation into a section 75 claim would take and it also 
agreed there had been delays. It offered Mr W a total of £150 as compensation.
However, HSBC said the decision to decline the section 75 claim had been correct as the 
evidence didnt support there had been a breach of contract as the fault with the vehicle 
appeared to be due to the adding of the contaminated fuel.
Mr W was unhappy at HSBCs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
partially upheld his complaint in that HSBC, having further reviewed the matter, offered an 
additional £150 compensation to Mr W for its handling of his claim which our investigator 
said he thought was fair. 
Our investigator said that he didnt think there had been a breach of contract as an 
independent report had been provided that showed there had been a contamination of the 
fuel. Further, he said that the vehicle was reported to have been fully repaired at no cost to 
Mr W.
Mr W disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he thought the results of the fuel 
tests were spurious at best due to the delay. Mr W said that when he had returned the 
camper van to the supplying dealer, he had never agreed to having it repaired. He also said 
that he was concerned that the supplying dealership may have now sold the camper van as 
it had applied to change the registered keeper with DVLA and even had a new MOT 
undertaken.
As the parties were unable to agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here is whether HSBC has handled Mr Ws claim for 
reimbursement of the cost of the camper van fairly. Ive seen that HSBC opened both a 
claim under the chargeback scheme and under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 when dealing with Mr Ws claim for reimbursement of the cost of the campervan.
Looking first at chargeback, this is a process that involves the card issuer disputing 
payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card networks, here thats Visa. It allows customers to ask for a 
transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. 
There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a 
refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up.
Ive seen that the claim under chargeback for the deposit payment of £300 was successful. 
This appears to be due to the camper van having been returned to the retailer. However, as 
there are differences between the chargeback scheme and a claim under section 75, I cant 
reasonably say that just because one was successful so should the other. 
Mr W raised that there had been a breach of contract between himself and the supplying 
dealer because the camper van hadnt been fit for purpose. He doesnt accept the 
explanation for the vehicles breakdown given by the supplying dealer and says it was due to 
it being inherently faulty.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods purchased via a 
credit card cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of the section is 
that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit card and they have a claim 
against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, 
they are given a like claim against the credit provider, which here is HSBC.
However, when making a claim it is for the consumer to provide evidence of the breach 
and/or misrepresentation. Mr W has provided the roadside report prepared by the technician 
who inspected the vehicle when it broke down. He has also queried the veracity of the fuel 
analysis obtained by the supplying dealer. Mr W has provided an email from the garage 
setting out there had been no complaints about the quality of its diesel and says the fault 
displayed by the camper van werent consistent with there being an issue with the fuel.
Mr W says that the previous owner of the camper van had complained about the same issue 
and returned the vehicle to the dealer receiving a full refund. But I havent seen any direct 
evidence about this and so I dont think I can reasonably say that HSBC should have 
attached any weight to this information. There could have been a number of reasons why the 
camper van was returned, and a refund provided. 
The supplying dealer says that the camper van was in full working order when supplied to Mr 
W. It says that the fact the vehicle broke down only a short time after refuelling supports 
what it says about there being a contaminant.  It says this was also corroborated when the 
fuel was independently analysed. The supplying dealer says that a fault caused by 
contaminated fuel isnt something that it would be responsible for and wouldnt mean the 
camper van hadnt been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply to Mr W. It has strongly 
disputed Mr Ws claim. 
Ive also seen that the supplying dealer says that camper van has now been fully repaired at 
no cost to Mr W, however he has refused to collect it.
Mr W says that there are a number of questions about the analysis of the fuel and has 
queried the delay in having the test carried out. The supplying dealer has explained that this 
was because the first test had been carried out by a company whose results wouldnt be accepted in court of law so it decided to have another test performed by a company who 
complied with the necessary regulations. While I accept there was a delay of several weeks, 
I cant reasonably say that HSBC wasnt entitled to accept the results of the as evidence of 
this independent test as to the cause of the fault with the camper van.
Mr W has raised the contents of the roadside assist technician and that the fault that arose 
didnt support a problem with the fuel. But the roadside assistance report states that its 
diagnostic testing maybe limited in a breakdown type situation. This report doesnt set out 
any view as to the cause of the high crankcase pressure or engine being worn that was 
found. I dont think this report in itself would rule out fuel contamination.
Mr W has also said that after the fuelling he was able to use the camper van in the following 
two days before it broke down. But again, this isnt evidence that would necessarily discredit 
the independent analysis report as Ive seen that Mr W hadnt driven the camper van very far 
in this time. And while I acknowledge that the garage says it hasnt had any other complaints 
about the diesel it was providing, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in weighing up all the 
evidence that had been provided and finding that a breach of contract hadnt occurred. I 
think this was a decision that it could reasonably reach on the evidence provided to it.
As stated above, when making a claim under section 75 its for Mr W to prove. However, as 
the vehicle has now been repaired, I dont think if a new independent inspection was 
arranged it would be likely to disprove the fuel analysis results. 
Mr W says he didnt ask the supplying dealer to repair the vehicle though Ive seen that the 
supplying dealer disagrees with this. However, although the vehicle was returned within only 
a few days from its point of supply, for Mr W to be entitled to a full refund under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 there would need to be evidence that the vehicle had been either 
faulty or developing a fault at the point of supply. So, I think the dealership was acing 
reasonably when it investigated the problem. I also dont think that, having identified the 
issue, the dealership then acted unfairly in repairing the camper van at no cost to Mr W.
Ive seen that the supplying dealer says it suspected a fuelling issue when the camper van 
was returned and that the roadside assistance company had agreed with this view (although 
Ive seen no evidence of that). It says that the first analysis of the fuel confirmed this as did 
their own inspection. It proceeded to fix the camper van as a gesture of goodwill and so at 
no expense to Mr W. In these circumstances, regardless of whether repairs were agreed or 
not between the parties, I dont think the supplying dealership has acted unfairly. 
So, looking at the evidence I dont think HSBCs decision to decline Mr Ws section 75 was 
unfair in light of the evidence that had been provided. I dont think there was enough 
evidence to show it was more likely than not that the camper van had a fault from the point 
of supply. The evidence was also that the camper van was fully repaired at no cost to Mr W 
and ready to be collected.
However, while I think its decision to decline Mr Ws s75 claim was fair I think HSBCs 
handling of Mr Ws claim had resulted in unnecessary distress and inconvenience for him. 
Ive seen Mr W was given an unrealistic expectation as to how quickly the matter would be 
decided, that communication wasnt as effective as would reasonably be expected and there 
was a long delay before a final view was reached. I think additional compensation of £150 on 
top of the £150 already offered, so making a total compensation payment of £300 is fair and 
Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Ive seen that Mr W is concerned that the supplying dealership may have already sold the 
camper van on. He is concerned that it applied to the DVLA to change the registered owner 
and also had a new MOT carried out. While I can appreciate his worries, I cant ask HSBC to get involved without proof the vehicle has been sold on without permission and that he has 
also made a complaint to the police. If the camper van is no longer with the dealership then 
Mr W will need to raise a new complaint with HSBC.
Putting things right
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr W, for the reasons given above, 
Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im asking HSBC to pay Mr W an additional £150 
compensation (so making a total payment of £300) for its handling of his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im asking HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to pay Mr W an additional £150 as compensation (so making a total payment of 
£300) for its handling of his section 75 claim which caused him distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman