DRN-2529473
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about a leasehold title on his property that he believes The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) should have had removed when he bought the freehold of the 
property with the help of a mortgage from them.
What happened
Mr L was buying a property through a housing association (HA). Initially he owned 55% of 
the property on a leasehold basis, with a mortgage from Britannia. Britannia took a charge 
over the leasehold. He paid rent to the HA for the remaining 45%. The HA held the freehold 
of the property.
In 2010 Mr L borrowed some more money from Britannia, and bought the freehold from the 
HA. Britannia registered a new charge over the freehold. 
In 2017 Mr L decided to move his mortgage to another lender, which Ill call C. As part of the 
process C used a solicitor to check that the security offered was suitable. The solicitor 
registered a charge over both the freehold and the leasehold.
Mr L says hes having problems selling the property because of the two charges. He says 
Britannia should have released its charge over the leasehold when he bought the freehold, 
because then Cs solicitor wouldnt have registered two charges in 2017 (one on the 
leasehold and one on the freehold).
Mr L complained but Britannia says it hasnt done anything wrong. It believes it only had a 
charge over the freehold from 2010 onwards, and since Mr L re-mortgaged in 2017 it has no 
charges on his property at all.
Mr L brought his complaint to us to review. Our investigator said there was no evidence that 
showed Britannia had a charge over the leasehold after 2010  and that as it has no charges 
or interest in Mr Ls property now it cant do anything to help him.
Mr L doesnt think thats fair. He says when he complained to this service about C we 
concluded that the problem lay with Britannia  so we should uphold his complaint about 
Britannia and make it liaise with C to remove the leasehold title and the charge over it  and 
pay the relevant costs.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to decide this complaint in Mr Ls favour, I need to establish that Britannia made 
mistakes in the way it handled Mr Ls mortgage. If it did I also need to consider whether Mr L 
has lost out because of this.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr L, but Ill 
explain why.
Mr L says hes been told by estate agents that there will be problems selling his property 
whilst two charges are registered. I cant comment on what estate agents may have told him, 
because this decision is only about what Britannia did.
Having said that, I dont believe the problem Mr L is having lies with the fact that his current 
lender holds (or held) two charges  one on the leasehold (reference starting EGL) and one 
on the freehold (starts AGL). I say that because, if Mr L were to repay his mortgage by 
borrowing elsewhere or selling the property  both charges would be released. 
Instead I believe the underlying issue is that the leasehold title itself still exists. If it had been 
cancelled and removed from Land Registry records in 2010 then C could never have 
registered a charge over it. And I accept that having two apparently different titles to the 
same property could cause problems when selling. So Ive thought about whether Britannia 
has shown me that it did release its charge in 2010. Ive also thought about whether  if 
Britannia should have released the charge but didnt  this has negatively affected Mr L.
Did Britannia release the leasehold charge?
Ive looked at the title documents and they show that Britannia had a charge over both the 
leasehold and the freehold in 2010. Britannia says it released its charge over the leasehold 
in 2010 but as it did this electronically theres no evidence to support this statement. I cant 
say definitely whether it released the charge over the leasehold at that point. The only 
subsequent information is that C had a charge over both the leasehold and the freehold titles 
in 2017. But its fair to say that C would likely only have registered charges over both in order 
to duplicate what Britannia had. I dont know if C replicating the security held by Britannia 
was correct  but this decision is about what Britannia did, not C, so I havent looked at this 
further. 
But it does seem possible Britannia didnt release its charge over the lease in 2010.
I cant say Britannia should have released its charge over the lease in 2010 (if it didnt), 
unless it was asked to by Mr L or his solicitors. It would then have been a commercial 
decision taken by Britannia whether or not it would release a charge. I havent seen any 
evidence that a request like this was made at the time by Mr L or his solicitor. 
I wouldnt expect a lender to be pro-active about this even if it was taking additional security 
at the time. Lenders dont normally release security associated with a mortgage  even if it 
has no apparent value  unless its asked to. I dont think Mr L can (or could have) expected 
Britannia to remove a charge without the relevant request. 
Did retaining a charge make a difference?
Im not persuaded Britannia holding a charge on the lease between 2010 and 2017 (if it did) 
ultimately makes much difference to Mr L. Thats because  as I said above  I dont think 
the problem is that there is or has been a charge over the lease  its the existence of the 
lease itself thats the issue. So whether Britannia released its charge or not, Mr L would still 
have the same problem as he has now. That is that there are two apparent titles to the 
property.
That complication isnt something Id expect Britannia or any other lender to sort out for Mr L. 
Its something Mr Ls solicitor could have dealt with in 2010, or at any time since. My 
thoughts on this are echoed in the correspondence Mr L has shared with us from the HA. 
This says, in summary, that it was for Mr Ls solicitor to arrange for the lease to be cancelled 
and removed from Land Registry records. 
I understand C has agreed that the two titles can be merged, so it seems Mr L has a solution 
to his problem. Im glad about that. But I cant say Britannia should have done that in 2010 
without a request from Mr L or his solicitor. And if there are costs associated with the merger 
of the two titles it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask Britannia to meet these. Mr L would have to meet those costs whenever this issue was sorted out  so I cant say Britannias 
actions have affected him financially.
I understand why Mr L complained to Britannia. But as the problem could only be resolved 
by Mr L and C  as it has been  I dont think Britannia need compensate him for the time 
hes spent sorting out the title to his property.  
Taking everything into account I dont think Britannia needs to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman