DRN-4453867
The complaint
Miss P and Mr T complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax carried out a credit 
search on them without their consent.
What happened
On 2 August 2023, a credit search was carried out in the name of Miss P and Mr T by 
Halifax in relation to a mortgage application. They hadnt applied for a mortgage so 
complained to Halifax about this.
Halifax looked into the complaint and explained to Miss P and Mr T that this credit search 
had been carried out in error. It said it was in relation to a previous mortgage application 
theyd made a year ago. This application hadnt been closed down on the Halifax system 
and this meant a mistake had been made where another credit search was carried out. 
Halifax agreed to remove the search from Miss P and Mr Ts credit file. And in a follow up 
letter, offered £100 compensation. The credit searches were removed from all credit 
reference agencies by 26 September 2023. 
Miss P and Mr T didnt accept this. They said that this credit search had prevented them 
from buying a new property and had put their life on hold. They felt that £100 wasnt enough 
compensation. They also suspected that this search mayve been carried our deliberately 
and fraudulently. They referred the complaint to our Service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She agreed that Halifax had made a 
mistake but thought the £100 compensation it had offered was fair. 
Miss P and Mr T didnt agree. They detailed the significant impact they said this had on their 
personal life. And the stress and worry it had caused them. They said that Halifax has since 
completed another credit search on them.
Our Investigator maintained that £100 compensation was fair for this mistake. And explained 
that the new credit search that had been conducted would need to be considered as a new 
complaint. Miss P and Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. So, its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P and Mr T have raised a number of complaints with our Service against Halifax and 
other businesses. I want to first make clear that the complaint I am considering here is only 
the matter of the credit search carried out by Halifax in August 2023 and the impact this has 
had. The other complaints are being handled separately to this one. 
Ive also noted that Miss P and Mr T have more recently complained that Halifax has 
completed another credit search without their consent in September 2023. However, this 
was raised after Halifax had issued a final response on this particular complaint and after it 
had been referred to us. I understand Halifax are still in the process of looking into this 
matter. Miss P and Mr T say Halifax are treating this as one issue. But we cant. Under our 
rules, a business has to be given the chance to put matters right before we are able to 
consider it. 
I wont consider this complaint point within this decision. As our Investigator explained, if 
Miss P and Mr T want us to consider this matter, then they will need to set up a new 
complaint with our Service and we will then look into the matter. 
Moving on to the complaint point I am considering. Halifax doesnt dispute that it carried out 
the credit search in August 2023 in error. It initially apologised for this. And, following further 
correspondence from Miss P and Mr T, offered them £100 compensation. Im aware 
Miss P and Mr T suspect this credit search mayve been a deliberate action or someone 
acting fraudulently. But, other than their belief, Ive no evidence to support that this was 
anything other than an automated mistake or human error. 
Halifax has explained that their previous mortgage application shouldve been closed off on 
its systems. But, instead, it was submitted triggering a credit search. This explanation 
appears reasonable, and I think its most likely the reason for this error. 
Halifax quickly requested that the searches be removed by all of the major credit reference 
agencies. And this was done within two months. So, I think Halifax has put right its error. 
Miss P and Mr T have said that it was them, rather than Halifax who corrected this error. But 
it wouldve needed to have been Halifax requesting the searches be removed, and Ive seen 
the correspondence Halifax sent to the credit reference agencies asking for this to be done. 
Miss P and Mr T have gone into great detail about the impact that this has had on them and 
their personal life. Ive thought about everything theyve said. I wont repeat that all here, 
however, its clear they have had a difficult time. However, I need to decide how much of an 
impact Halifaxs error has had.
Ive thought about Miss P and Mr Ts claim that they cannot get a mortgage because of this 
credit search being on their file. And that they cant obtain short term credit. But Im not 
persuaded this is the case. Lending can be declined for a number of reasons. 
Miss P and Mr T had recently changed addresses which will impact the ability to obtain 
credit. They had a significant amount of unsecured debt as well. And I note that there are 
many applications for different types of credit during August by Mr T. All of this would be 
factored in by a business when making any kind of lending decision. Whilst a single credit 
search would have some impact on a credit score, it would unlikely be the sole reason a 
mortgage couldnt be obtained. 
Furthermore, I cant see anything that shows Miss P and Mr T applied for a mortgage 
recently. Whilst they may have assumed that they wouldnt be eligible for a mortgage, I dont 
think this was because of the credit search carried out by Halifax. And this search was 
removed in a timely manner. 
Whilst this mistake has had an impact on Miss P and Mr T, and I dont doubt that theyve 
been through a difficult time, I dont think that this can be put down to Halifaxs mistake. 
Ultimately, this was an administrative error that was put right in a timely manner. 
Miss P and Mr T did have to spend time sorting this out, but I think £100 fairly reflects this. 
Im not persuaded this mistake prevented them from moving house. 
Ive noted Miss P and Mr Ts request that they be paid redress individually. However, this 
error occurred because of a joint mortgage application that was reactivated in error. So, Im satisfied its right to consider the complaint as a joint one under our rules. I will make clear I 
have considered the impact on both Miss P and Mr T.
Miss P and Mr T have complained about the time taken for Halifax to respond to this 
complaint. Our rules also set out the matters that we can look at. The handling of complaints 
is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator requires financial businesses 
to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that 
is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if were upholding the underlying complaint and the complaint handling is indelibly 
linked to that issue. Here, however thats not the case. So I cant consider the complaint 
handling of Halifax in this case. 
Putting things right
Halifaxs offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand that its sent 
a cheque to Miss P and Mr T, but they are yet to cash it. If they are still able to cash this, 
Halifax should let them know. If not, Halifax should arrange for either a new cheque to be 
sent or an alternative payment method to pay the compensation. 
My final decision
Halifax has already made an offer to pay C £100 and I am satisfied this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. As such my final decision is that Halifax should pay £100 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman