DRN-2380698
The complaint
Mr B complains that State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) delayed his attempts to make 
overpayments to his mortgage accounts.
What happened
Mr B holds several mortgage accounts with SBI. On 25 June 2019 he contacted SBI to ask 
about the process for making overpayments to his mortgages. SBI set out how much could 
be paid without incurring early repayment charges and explained that it would require proof 
of the source of the funds being used to make the overpayments.
Over the course of a couple of weeks following this enquiry, Mr B had several telephone 
calls with SBI, as well as sending emails. He was frustrated that it required him to provide 
proof of funds. He said he felt SBI should already hold enough information to allow it to 
proceed.
The overpayments were finally made to the accounts on 15 July 2019.
Mr B complained to SBI. He said it had handled his request poorly. He felt it had asked for 
information that was unnecessary, as he felt it already held enough information to allow the 
payments to go through. And he also thought it had delayed matters due to how it had 
communicated with him. He said this had caused him a great deal of distress and he asked 
that SBI refund the additional interest hed paid due to his overpayments being delayed and 
make a payment to him for the upset caused.
SBI said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it was required to verify the source 
of the funds to be used for the overpayments, as this was part of its processes to comply 
with relevant regulations. And it thought it had provided clear information to Mr B about this  
but he had chosen not to provide the information requested.
Unhappy with this response Mr B asked our service to look into his complaint.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think SBI had done anything wrong. 
He said he felt the information requested by it was reasonable and that it had acted fairly in 
how it had dealt with Mr Bs request.
Mr B did not agree and still felt the information requested was unnecessary and that SBIs 
requirements had caused delays that couldve been avoided.
As Mr B did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A business is entitled to decide its own processes. Businesses can decide how they operate 
accounts, amongst other things to ensure that they are fulfilling any regulatory requirements, 
and how they communicate with their customers. These are a matter for a business own 
commercial discretion and is not something that our service can generally interfere with.
SBI has explained that its process for accepting lump sum overpayments towards mortgages 
is to ask for proof of the source of these funds. It has said that this process is to ensure that 
it complies with regulatory requirements. Mr B says he feels that this information was 
unnecessary here. But ultimately this was for SBI to decide. I dont think the reasons it has 
explained for needing this information, or what it specifically asked for, was unreasonable. 
Mr B has said hed provided information to SBI earlier in 2019 that meant the information 
requested was not necessary. SBI has said it was unable to locate the information that Mr B 
has referred to. I can understand why this mightve been frustrating for Mr B. But again, it 
was SBIs decision as to what was required in order to process the overpayments. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that SBI already had the specific information it asked for. And I 
think it was clear in explaining to Mr B that, at the point he made his request, it didnt have 
what it needed from him.
The information Ive seen suggests that Mr B continued to dispute the need for this 
information rather than provide it. While I can see that Mr B feels strongly about this, and I 
accept that this was his choice, I dont think SBI was under any obligation to set aside its 
usual process, just because Mr B objected to it. I can see that, in the end, SBI did choose to 
allow the overpayments to be made, before the relevant information was provided. Ultimately 
this was a decision at its discretion, and I dont think it was under any obligation to do this or 
that it did anything wrong by not taking this decision sooner than it did.
Mr B has mentioned he is unhappy that SBI sent letters rather than emails at some points 
during his contact with it. Again, how SBI chooses to correspond is a matter for its own 
judgement. It has said that it does this for data protection reasons  which again I dont think 
is unreasonable.
Taking everything into account, I dont think SBI has acted unreasonably here. I think it was 
clear with Mr B about what information it needed and why. As this wasnt provided, I dont 
think I can reasonably say SBI has caused any unnecessary delays. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman