DRN-1576236
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Santander UK Plc hasnt been able to return a payment he made after he 
asked for it to be recalled. 
What happened
On 5 July 2018, Mr F requested a payment be made from him account for 30,000 Euros 
which totalled £24,285.17 to an investment company overseas. Santander flagged the 
payment for additional security checks and put a restriction on his account to stop any 
further payments being made until it could speak to Mr F. 
Santander spoke to Mr F on 6 July 2018. On this call, Santander told Mr F that it owed him a 
duty of care so was calling to check the legitimacy of the payment and that he wasnt in the 
process of being scammed. Mr F assured the advisor that the payment was legitimate. He 
said he was having building work done in Austria (which I note he later changed to Hungary) 
 a friend of a friend introduced him to the company, and hed dealt with them before, having 
been introduced to them about a year ago. He said hed seen what the company had done 
for his friend and was happy with it. Two of his friends were overseeing the building work as 
he couldnt be in Austria at that time. The advisor probed him further around how the 
investment company linked into the building work, but Mr F just explained it was manging his 
investments on his behalf. He was adamant he wanted the payment to be released. 
Santander told Mr F it would remove the restriction from the account and the payment would 
be released. Mr F was informed that if the payment did turn out to be scam, then Santander 
wouldnt be liable. 
The payment wasnt released until 16 July 2018. Mr F complained about this and it has been 
dealt with under a separate complaint in which Santander paid Mr F compensation for the 
delay. As this issue has been dealt with under a separate complaint, it wont be considered 
in this decision. 
Mr F contacted Santander on 10 September 2018 as the recipient of the funds had told him 
the payment hadnt been received. Santander submitted a request for the return of the funds 
upon Mr Fs request. 
The receiving bank responded on 4 October 2018 explaining that they wouldnt be returning 
the money. Santander notified Mr F of this. Its not clear the exact date he was notified, but 
Mr F was aware prior to 8 November 2018, as he mentioned in a call that day that hed been 
told previously the receiving bank wouldnt be returning the money and the back-office team 
were looking into why this might be. 
Mr F complained to Santander in August 2019 that his payment hadnt been returned and he 
was having to chase this up. Santander issued a final response explaining it had attempted 
to recall the payment on a best endeavours basis, but the receiving bank had confirmed 
they wouldnt be returning the funds. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
concluded that Santander had called to verify the payment before it was sent and let Mr F 
know that he wouldnt be covered if it did turn out to be a scam. Santander then tried to 
recall the payment when Mr F asked for this to be done. She didnt think Santander had 
made an error, as it cant force the receiving bank to return the funds. 
Mr F didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Mr F has given various reasons for the payment he made on 5 July 2018. When he spoke to 
Santander the day after the transfer, he told them it was for some building work he had 
invested in overseas. However, to our service hes said it was for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency. When asked to provide any further information or evidence around this, he 
hasnt been able to answer our questions. The paperwork he has provided was for card 
payments made to a different company in the months after the transaction in question. 
Mr F had several large payments in and out of his account in the months prior to the 30,000 
Euro transfer. These consisted of other international payments, but when asked, Mr F 
couldnt explain what these were for and he hasnt disputed any other transactions on his 
account other than the 30,000 Euro transfer. 
Its therefore not clear whether the 30,000 Euro transfer was a legitimate transaction, or 
whether Mr F has been the victim of a scam. 
A bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. There is no doubt Mr F authorised the payment of 30,000 
Euros. Because of this, Santander had an obligation to follow his instruction. 
However, that isnt the end of the story. I also need to consider whether Santander acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F when the transfer of 30,000 Euros was 
requested or whether it should have done more than it did. The obligations on banks are 
there so they can help to prevent their customers falling victim to scams. 
As Ive already explained, Mr F has never been clear on exactly what the transfer was for 
and hasnt been able to explain the activity on his account. It is therefore very unclear as to 
whether Mr F has been the victim of a scam or not. Due to this uncertainty, it wouldnt be fair 
to hold Santander to the rules and obligations in place for preventing scams. 
Instead, Ive looked at what Santander did when Mr F complained that the recipient hadnt 
received the funds. 
When Mr F spoke to Santander on 10 September 2018, he told them that the recipient of the 
30,000 Euros hadnt received the funds. Santander did what I would expect at that point and 
attempted a recall. Unfortunately, this is done on a best endeavours basis and there is no 
guarantee it will be successful. This is made more complicated when it involves an 
international bank, as is the case here. Mr F called to chase an update on the recall between September 2018 and January 2019. 
Having listened to the calls that are available, there were a couple of occasions where the 
advisors were confused about what Mr F was complaining about and Mr F clearly believed 
the back-office team were still trying to retrieve his money.
Unfortunately though, the receiving bank in this instance informed Santander that it would 
not be able to return the funds to Mr Fs account. At this point there was nothing more 
Santander could do to get this money back for Mr F. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr F. However, Im satisfied Santander 
did all it could in recalling the money. It has no power over the receiving bank and 
unfortunately cant compel it to return the money. I appreciate Mr Fs frustration on some of 
the calls he had with Santander, however, Im satisfied it notified him  at least by November 
2018  that the receiving bank wouldnt be returning the money. 
Im therefore not in a position to ask Santander to refund Mr F the amount of the transfer or 
pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman