DRN-3421806
The complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) did not put in 
place a plan for a balloon payment when his hire purchase agreement came to an end.   
What happened
In April 2017 Mr A entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement for a new car with 
VWFS. He was to pay a deposit of just over £10,000, followed by 35 payments of just over 
£300 and, if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement, a final balloon payment 
of nearly £17,000 in April 2020. 
The hire purchase period ended in April 2020, but Mr A did not make the balloon payment; 
nor did he return the car. In May 2020, Mr A contacted VWFS to ask for a concession period 
so that he could discuss part-exchange options with his dealership. VWFS replied to say that 
this was not an option as the hire purchase agreement had come to an end. 
Towards the end of June 2020 VWFS sent Mr A a default notice. It agreed to take no further 
action for 60 days  that is, until the end of August 2020. 
In early September 2020 Mr A told VWFS that he was trying to obtain credit to make the 
balloon payment but that the default notice was making that difficult. In October 2020 VWFS 
said it would amend Mr As credit file to assist him in obtaining credit. 
In February 2021, following a further default notice, Mr A asked if he could refinance the 
outstanding sum with VWFS. It sent a quote and, in March 2021, finance documents. They 
were resent in May 2021, but VWFS says it did not receive them back. It sent a further set of 
documents, which it chased until October 2021. VWFS issued a further default notice in 
October 2021 and terminated the agreement in December 2021, when nearly £9,000 
remained due. 
Mr A complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He did not believe that VWFS had treated Mr A unfairly. Whilst he acknowledged 
that Mr A had contacted VWFS to indicate that he wanted to go ahead with the proposed 
refinancing of the balloon payment, it did not appear that the necessary documents had 
been returned to allow that to go ahead. He did not recommend that VWFS do anything 
more to resolve matters. Mr A did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not understand Mr A to dispute that, under the terms of the hire purchase agreement, he 
was obliged to make a payment of nearly £17,000 in April 2020 or to return the car to VWFS. 
I can fully understand that he wanted to keep the car but needed to find a way to pay the 
outstanding amount. I understand too that his finances had been affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
I accept too that Mr A contacted VWFS to discuss his options and that he was in contact on 
a number of occasions in 2021. He was consistent in saying that he wanted the refinancing 
to go ahead. 
I am not persuaded however that Mr A actually returned the documents to allow the 
refinancing to be progressed. Perhaps more importantly, he knew that he had not made the 
balloon payment in full and that he had not returned the car to VWFS. That was the case 
some 18 months after the end of the hire purchase period. In the absence of any agreement 
with VWFS  and there was none after August 2020  Mr A was obliged to make payment, 
whether VWFS actively sought it or not.        
I acknowledge that this is likely to have an impact on Mr As ability to obtain credit, but I 
believe that VWFS is entitled (and possibly obliged) to provide information to credit reference 
agencies to reflect the fact of non-payment. 
I do not believe that Mr A has been treated unfairly.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman