DRN-3019680
The complaint
Mrs M complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs M was given a single loan by Likely Loans as follows:
Date loan 
takenAmount 
borrowedLoan term Total 
amount 
repayableMonthly 
repaymentLoan 
status
December
2017£1000.00 24 months £1823.04 £75.96 Defaulted 
April 2019
Mrs M made the loan repayments due on time until December 2018. The following 
month she contacted Likely Loans and explained that she had suffered a bereavement 
and this had impacted on her financial situation. Likely Loans waited another month to 
give Mrs M some time to sort out her affairs before it tried to contact her to discuss her 
changed circumstances. After a further eight months passed and Likely Loans had 
been unable to contact Mrs M (and the loan was now significantly in arrears) it sold her 
debt to a third-party debt collection agent.  
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although our adjudicator 
didnt think the checks Likely Loans had done were sufficient, she explained that Mrs M 
hadnt provided her with the information she would need to determine what better checks 
would have shown. So our adjudicator wasnt able to say that the loan shouldnt have been 
agreed and she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Likely Loans gave this loan to Mrs M required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of 
credit being applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all 
of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs M.
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income and it checked her credit file to assess how much she was 
repaying to other creditors.
Mrs M was entering into a significant financial commitment with Likely Loans. She would 
need to make monthly repayments for the next two years. And the credit check Likely 
Loans received suggested that although Mrs M wasnt heavily reliant on credit at that 
time, she had struggled to make her repayments in the past. So I would expect that Likely 
Loans would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. 
I dont think that the checks it did were enough. I think it would have been proportionate 
for Likely Loans to independently check the true state of Mrs Ms finances before 
agreeing the loan.But although I dont think the checks Likely Loans did before agreeing 
the loan were sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I also need to be able to say that if Likely Loans had done what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, these would have shown Likely Loans that Mrs M couldnt sustainably 
afford the repayments. 
We asked Mrs M to provide us with her bank statements from the time. Our adjudicator 
explained these would help show what Mrs Ms actual financial circumstances were when she applied for the loan and we would be able to see what information Likely Loans 
shouldve taken into account before agreeing to lend to her. 
Unfortunately Mrs M hasnt given us what we asked for. So I havent seen bank 
statements that would help me gain a fuller understanding of her actual financial situation 
when she was taking out this loan. And I dont know what else, if anything, Likely Loans is 
likely to have found out if it had done more and better checks. 
I've taken into account that Mrs Ms representative believes that a responsible lender would 
have asked to see her bank statements when Mrs M applied for the loan and that she had 
been in severe financial difficulty for several years prior to taking out this loan with Likely 
Loans.  
But I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely taking into account all the 
information thats available, making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited 
information. And I must be impartial. What Mrs M has told me isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold the complaint.
I dont feel that I have seen enough overall to make me think that even if Likely Loans had 
sought a fuller picture of Mrs Ms finances it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt likely to 
be sustainable for her. Even if Likely Loans had looked in more depth at Mrs Ms finances, 
based on what I've been able to look at, I cant fairly say that Likely Loans would have 
seen enough to make it think that Mrs M was facing serious problems managing her 
money when she applied for these loans and so it shouldnt have lent to her. 
In coming to my view, Ive taken on board that the loan made Mrs Ms money problems 
worse. I recognise that there was a risk that Mrs M would be adding to her debt problems 
with this additional borrowing.
But I dont think that Likely Loans had any real reason to think that was necessarily going to 
happen as a result of its loan. 
I think its fair to say that evidence of serious financial difficulty isnt reflected in the credit 
checks that Likely Loans acquired  whilst it could see indications of some payment 
problems previously I dont think the information it saw was enough to make it think that it 
shouldnt lend to Mrs M. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a 
credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
I havent seen enough to say that Likely Loans acted towards Mrs M in any other way that 
was unfair or unreasonable. Im very sorry to learn about Mrs Ms changed circumstances 
and I can understand how this made things difficult for her financially. But if she didnt talk to 
the lender about this (and I've seen nothing to suggest that she did) then I dont think I can 
fairly say that Likely Loans did anything wrong when it made the decision to sell her 
outstanding loan when it did - the loan agreement allows for this to happen and I think Likely 
Loans allowed a reasonable period of time for Mrs M to contact it and discuss new payment 
arrangements. So this isnt a reason for me to make any award against Likely Loans. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Mrs M but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion. And if Mrs M would like help 
to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her situation theres more information 
about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide 
contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman