DRN-2858837
The complaint
Miss C has a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Financial 
Administration Services Limited (known as Fidelity). Miss C complains that Fidelity wouldnt 
accept the identification and verification documents she sent to them after she changed her 
address. Miss C says this was unreasonable and it has restricted access to her funds.
What happened
Miss C has told us she didnt believe she couldnt access her ISA funds as she lived in 
Greece. So, she changed her address to a UK address in early February 2020. Fidelity 
wrote to her new address to confirm the change, but the letter was returned saying she no 
longer lived there. 
Fidelity received a further UK change of address request from Miss C at the end of February. 
This was followed by another change of address in early March to an address in Greece. 
Fidelity amended the address and wrote to Miss C to confirm they had done so. They 
explained the restrictions on the account now she lived outside of the UK. The letter said 
Miss C could still withdraw funds from her account.
Fidelity then tried to contact Miss C by secure message. When Miss C replied they told her 
they needed to identify her and verify her new address before they could process any 
withdrawals. After Miss C sent some documents to Fidelity, they wrote to her in May 2020 to 
explain why the documents werent acceptable. They provided a list of documents that she 
could provide and advice on how copy documents must be certified. Miss C says she was 
unable to provide the documents required and complained to Fidelity that she now had no 
access to her funds.
The final response from Fidelity explained Miss C had changed address several times over a 
four-week period. Fidelity said they have security measures in place to ensure they verify the 
identity and address of a customer before releasing funds. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss C didnt believe Fidelity acted reasonably when they rejected the documents and she 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Miss C 
and thought that Fidelity hadnt done anything wrong as they were following their security 
procedures. During the investigation Fidelity agreed to accept other documents Miss C sent 
to our service as an exception to their process. They said they would release funds to a UK 
bank account Miss C has registered with them. Our investigator thought this was a fair and 
reasonable offer.
Miss C didnt accept the thoughts of our investigator or the offer from Fidelity. She feels 
Fidelity couldve made this offer much earlier than they did. Miss C says Fidelity have 
continued to charge management fees to the account, and she feels she should be 
compensated for not having access to her funds for over a year. 
Im an ombudsman and the complaint has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss C will be disappointed, but I dont think Fidelity acted unreasonably when 
they decided to restrict access to her ISA funds. So, I wont be asking them to take any 
further action. I will now explain why.
Businesses have an obligation to take a risk-based approach to identifying their customers 
and verifying their address. They should have suitable systems and processes in place, but 
the regulations aren't prescriptive. It's up to the business to put in place the appropriate 
measures. I cant tell a business what these systems and measures must be, but I can 
decide if the business has applied them reasonably in the circumstances.
I understand the reasons why Miss C felt she needed to change her address to a UK 
address. However, I also must consider these changes would likely have caused Fidelity to 
be concerned about the security of the account. Their obligation to identify and verify a 
customer is not limited to when an account is opened; its an ongoing obligation. Miss C 
changed her address several times in a short period. So, it seems reasonable that Fidelity 
adopted a risk-based approach to ensuring Miss Cs account hadnt been compromised. 
Fidelity first established contact with Miss C and then asked for evidence of her identity and 
address verification through a secure messaging service. 
When Miss C sent Fidelity her identification and verification documents they quickly 
explained the reasons why they werent acceptable. Although Miss C believes this was 
because the documents were in Greek, the letter Fidelity sent in May 2020 provided clear 
reasons why they werent acceptable. The letter provided clear guidance on how copy 
documents must be certified, and who could certify the documents. Fidelity also told Miss C 
that until she provided acceptable documents they would prevent any withdrawals. Fidelity 
also provided a telephone number for Miss C to call them if she had any further questions.
Ive therefore decided that as Fidelity applied a risk-based approach to protect Miss Cs 
account they didnt do anything wrong. 
As Ive decided Fidelity acted reasonably, I wont be asking them to pay Miss C any 
compensation. I appreciate Fidelity have recently offered to accept alternative 
documentation sent by Miss C, but they have done so as an exception. This doesnt mean 
their decision not to accept the initial documentation was unreasonable. Miss C believes 
Fidelity shouldve done this earlier, but Im satisfied the initial documents didnt meet 
Fidelitys requirements. Because of this I cant tell them they shouldve accepted them 
earlier. 
Miss C says that she has continued to pay charges on the funds invested in her ISA. I 
acknowledge this is the case, but as early as May 2020 Fidelity made it clear the account 
would still be invested and charges would apply. They also made it clear Miss C wouldnt 
have access to the funds until shed provided documents that met their requirements.
Although I dont consider Fidelity have done anything wrong, Miss C can take up the offer 
Fidelity have recently made. Miss C can contact Fidelity direct to ensure she has a UK bank 
account registered with them so that they can pay funds from her ISA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman