DRN-3729954
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unreasonably delayed opening a bank
account for a trust, T.
The other trustees have joined this complaint, but they are all represented by Mr M.
(I am aware that Mr M has made another complaint about another attempt to open a trust 
account with RBS; I have issued a separate decision on that complaint.
This decision relates only to the account intended to benefit Mr Ms son. I hope Mr M
will understand why I have expressed my two decisions in very similar terms.)
What happened
Mr M told us:
He opened a current account with RBS in October 2019, with the intention of using it 
for trust funds intended for his son.
In January 2020 he gave his RBS Premier Banking Manager the relevant documents 
to apply to convert the account to a trust account.
Various members of RBSs staff assured him that, although the administrative 
processes associated with converting the account to a trust account would take some 
time, the trust account would be ready to use by the end of January 2020.
In reliance on RBSs assurances, he and his wife sold shares in December 2019 and 
January 2020. Their intention was to transfer the proceeds of the share sales into his 
sons trust account.
RBS failed to process his application to convert the account to a trust account. He 
was asked to submit new forms, which he did in March 2020. But shortly afterwards, 
RBS told him that it was no longer offering personal trust accounts, and that it was 
not going to process his application at all. He appreciates that RBS believes there 
were deficiencies with the forms, but even if those deficiencies existed, they could 
have been easily and quickly rectified if RBS had told him about them.
He was eventually able to open a trust account with another bank. He finally 
managed to transfer the processed of the share sales into his sons trust account in 
early March 2021  over a year after he and his wife sold their shares.
RBSs actions meant his son lost out on the dividend payments he would otherwise 
have received. He acknowledges that RBS has paid £600 to apologise for its failings 
in respect of this and one other account, but he does not believe that amount is 
anything near a proper response to the delay, frustration and anguish he suffered  
and it does not even attempt to address his familys financial losses.
RBS told us:
It cannot say precisely what happened to Mr Ms original application to convert 
the account to a trust account. It accepts that Mr M did submit an application 
before March 2020, but those documents did not reach the relevant part of RBS. 
It believes that documentation is likely to have been misplaced within the bank 
(and that its security procedures mean the documents are very unlikely to have 
been shared externally).
It did receive the documents Mr M submitted in March 2020. Those documents did 
not reach the relevant part of RBS, and were not processed. But if they had been 
fully reviewed, RBS would have told Mr M that further documentation was needed 
 in particular a certified trust deed and clarity around how the account mandate 
should operate.
It took a commercial decision not to open any new personal trust accounts from the 
end of March 2020. Given the difficulties with the documentation, it would not have 
been practically possible for RBS to have opened the trust account before then. 
Even if the trust account had been opened, that account would by now have been 
closed  because RBS has since arranged to close the remaining personal trust 
accounts held by the bank.
It has paid Mr M £600 to compensate him for the mistakes it made in respect of 
his attempts to open two trust accounts (this one, and an account intended to hold 
funds for the benefit of Mr Ms son).
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. I said:
Firstly, I am satisfied that RBS was entitled to make the commercial decision not to 
offer personal trust accounts. I do not criticise it for that. However, its clear that 
RBSs service here has been poor. Some of Mr Ms documents went missing, some 
were ignored, some went to the wrong department, and some were not processed 
quickly enough. Throughout, Mr M was regularly receiving what he describes as 
encouraging updates from his RBS Premier Banking Manager  then ultimately 
RBS decided not to offer him the account type he wanted.
I think our investigator was right to say that I cannot make award for losses Mr or Mrs 
M suffered personally. Im not free to consider every complaint referred to me. Where 
 as here  a complaint concerns a trust account, I cannot consider losses the 
trustees may have suffered in their personal capacity. In addition, I cant see that Mr 
and Mrs M have even suffered any losses in their personal capacity. Mr and Mrs M 
were not intending to keep the 2020 dividend payments for themselves. If everything 
had happened as Mr M says it should, Mr M and his wife would not have personally 
received any dividend payments after they sold their shares; those payments would 
have been received by the trustees in their capacity as trustees.
I also think our investigator was right to say that it is unlikely to have been possible 
for RBS to have processed Mr Ms March 2020 application in time. But I differ from 
our investigator on one point. I consider that if RBS had not misplaced Mr Ms earlier 
application, there would have been no need for the March 2020 application in the first 
place.
In my view, if RBS had acted as it should have done in January 2020, it is likely that 
the account would have been converted before the end of March 2020. It would then have been open to Mr M to pay the process of the share sales into the RBS trust 
account in March or April 2020.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to make an award to Mr M for the dividend losses he says the trust suffered. I say 
that because:
So far as Im aware, it was Mr and Mrs Ms choice to sell the shares, rather 
than attempt to transfer them directly to the trust (as an in specie transfer). 
There are advantages and disadvantages to in specie transfers, but one of 
the advantages is that there is no period out of the market  the funds remain 
invested throughout, and dividends continue to be paid.
I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS encouraged Mr and Mrs M to sell 
the shares at a particular point, or even that RBS knew they intended to sell 
the shares. I dont think RBS would necessarily have anticipated that delays 
in opening (or converting) a bank account would have prevented Mr and Mrs 
M from using their money to buy shares for the trust.
Even if RBS does bear some responsibility for Mr M and his wifes decision to 
sell shares in late 2019 and early 2020, I cant see any reason why it would 
continue to be responsible for any losses suffered after it told Mr M that it 
wasnt going to open a trust account. If there were delays in opening an 
account with another bank, that would not be RBSs fault.
There was a period of just over a year when Mr M and his family did not 
receive dividends from the shares. Mr M and his wife sold shares in late 2019 
and early 2020, and it appears they were out of the market until they 
transferred the proceeds of the share sales to a trust account with a different 
bank around March 2021. But along with the loss of dividends, Mr and Mrs M 
were not exposed to market fluctuations in the value of the shares over that 
time. In general, I dont think it would be fair to look at missed dividend 
payments in isolation from the capital value of shares.
The value of many shares fell substantially between December 2019 and 
April 2020  sometimes falling sharply on news of lockdowns. The FTSE All-
Share Index did not return to its December 2019 level until well into 2021. 
Even taking into account the loss of dividends, it is possible that Mr M and his 
family might have made a profit if they had sold shares in December 2019 
and then repurchased those same shares after March 2020.
Moving on to the issue of non-financial losses, I think the banks failures did cause Mr 
M and his fellow trustees to suffer both distress and inconvenience. Mr M had to 
submit paperwork again in March 2020, after his original paperwork went astray. I 
think he was also misled  apparently inadvertently  by RBSs Premier Banking 
Manager about the status of the application. However, given that RBS has stopped 
offering trust accounts of this type and Mr M would have had to move the account 
anyway, I dont think RBSs errors were the reason Mr M had to move the account to 
another bank  and so I dont think it would be appropriate for me to award 
compensation for the inconvenience of having to open an account elsewhere.
I know Mr M was unpleasantly surprised when our investigator suggested that if the 
bank had not made an offer, our investigator would have suggested an amount below 
the £600 the bank had already paid. But having considered all the available evidence, I think RBS has done enough  and I do not intend to order it to make an 
additional payment.
Mr M did not accept my provisional decision. Briefly, he said:
RBS has still not given a proper explanation of what went wrong. It has said that it 
made a commercial decision to stop issuing trust accounts from March 2020, but 
beyond that it has said very little by way of explanation.
He is not satisfied that our service has robustly questioned RBS about its actions, 
failures and inconsistencies. In particular, he does not understand why I said that I 
didnt think RBSs errors were the reason why he had to move the account to another 
bank.
If RBS had done what it should have done in early 2020, then none of the 
subsequent protracted dialogue with RBS and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
would have been necessary.
He acted in good faith throughout, but RBS continued to mislead him and his fellow 
trustees for many months after March 2020. His email exchanges with RBSs staff 
(which he provided as additional evidence) show that as late as August 2020, RBS 
was still telling him that the matter ought to be resolved soon. He therefore considers 
that RBS should be responsible for the trusts financial losses after the end of March 
2020.
Eventually, one of RBSs own staff told him that the only way he was likely to get any 
form of satisfactory update from RBS was to raise a complaint.
RBSs original £600 offer for distress and inconvenience was to him alone. He 
considers that all of the trustees should receive compensation for their time, travel 
costs, and the disruption and stress they experienced, and that £2,400 would be an 
appropriate total.
He is willing to enter into pragmatic dialogue to assess what would represent fair 
compensation for the trusts financial losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry that Mr M does not believe our investigation has been sufficiently robust, but there 
is very little more that I can say to reassure him.
I agree that RBS hasnt given a complete explanation of what went wrong. It accepts that it 
lost some of the documents Mr M provided, and that it failed to properly process other 
documents, but it has not fully explained how those errors occurred. 
It is possible that RBS simply cannot say how those errors happened, because it does not 
know. But in this case, I dont think I need to decide exactly what happened in order to fairly 
resolve this complaint. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that if 
RBS had made no errors, the account would have been operating as a trust account by the 
end of March 2020. I dont need to decide the precise nature of those errors in order to be 
satisfied that RBS has done something wrong.However, a conclusion that RBS has done something wrong does not automatically mean I 
should award compensation. I also need to consider the impact of its errors, and decide 
whether I think the errors were the cause of any losses suffered by the complainants in their 
capacity as trustees of the trust. Ive carefully considered Mr Ms further evidence, but for the 
reasons Ive already given I am not satisfied that RBSs errors caused the financial loss that 
Mr M claims. In addition, as Ive said I dont think RBS would necessarily have anticipated 
that delays in opening (or converting) a bank account would have prevented Mr and Mrs M 
from using their money to buy shares for the trust.
I have also carefully considered Mr Ms further comments about distress and inconvenience, 
but for the reasons Ive already given I remain satisfied that a total payment of £600 
represents a fair outcome here.
RBS told us that even if it had converted the account to a trust account in March 2020, it 
would subsequently have arranged to close that account due to its commercial decision to 
stop offering this type of account. Mr M would therefore have had to move the account to a 
new bank at some point in any event. I accept RBSs evidence on that point.
I want to be absolutely clear that I have no doubts about Mr Ms honesty or integrity. I 
disagree with him about the financial consequences of RBSs errors, but I dont want him or 
RBS to think that means I think he acted in bad faith. I consider that it is entirely 
understandable that he is keen to ensure that his sons trust does not lose out as a result of 
a bank error.
Overall, I have come to the same conclusions I did in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons as before:
If RBS had acted as it should have done in January 2020, the account would have 
operating as a trust account by the end of March 2020.
However, it would not be fair for me to make an award for financial losses suffered by 
the trust  because I dont think RBSs errors were the cause of any losses suffered 
by the trust.
RBSs errors caused the trustees to suffer both distress and inconvenience, but I 
think the amount it has already paid represents fair compensation for that.  
I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I do not require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman