DRN-1271015
The complaint
Miss T has complained that during a time of financial difficulty Santander UK Plc removed 
her overdraft facility and demanded the full balance to be repaid.
What happened
Miss T says she has had several road traffic accidents which impacted her health. As a 
result she was not able to work as frequently as she would have liked. This impacted her 
financial situation. And so she was unable to make payments to her overdraft facility.
Miss T said she discussed her financial situation with Santander, she explained when she 
could make a payment, she would. She also explained that she was owed compensation 
from her accident. And when she received that she would be able to make a payment. So 
Santander agreed to put her account on hold.
Santander removed Miss Ts overdraft facility on 31 May 2019 and sent a demand for the full 
balance of over £2,000. It also said it would be placing a default on Miss Ts credit file. 
Because of this Miss T feels Santander has not taken her financial hardship into 
consideration. She feels its unfair and has made her financial situation worse. Miss T would 
like Santander to remove the default from her credit file and arrange a temporary 
arrangement to clear the overdraft in 10 months.
Santander has said Miss T was made aware on at least three occasions that the overdraft 
facility would be removed if credits weren't received more regularly into the account. It also 
said it had tried to contact Miss T on several occasions (prior to removing the facility) to 
discuss the matter further but unfortunately Miss T wasnt available.
As Miss T remained unhappy she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint, but he didn't recommend that it be upheld. To summarise he said 
he didn't think Santander treated Miss T unfairly. Once it had been made aware of her 
circumstances it provided her with a contact to the customer assist team who tried to contact 
her on numerous occasions to discuss payments. All charges were stopped after Santander 
were informed of Miss Ts situation and charges were refunded that shouldn't of been 
applied.
He said in a year Ms T had only credited £127.00 into the account. And there was an 
outstanding overdraft in excess of £2,000. So, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, Santander withdrew the facility. 
Our investigator went on to explain that after Santander had assessed Ms Ts income and 
expenditure she didn't have any surplus income to offer. So while Miss T feels she was in a 
position to repay the debt in ten months time, there isnt any evidence provided to confirm 
this. She has also said Santander shouldve done more to assist her including a 
consolidation loan. Miss T didn't agree and asked for the case to be passed to me to 
consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators opinion for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account which says:
All overdrafts are subject to status. We may require you to repay the amount you owe in full 
on demand at any time. 
So with this in mind, I cant say that Santander has acted unfairly by removing the overdraft 
facility and asking Miss T to repay the balance. The terms and conditions of the account 
state it is able to do this. And as Miss T wouldve agreed to the terms and conditions when 
she opened the account, I think its reasonable to say she wouldve or ought to have been 
aware of this. 
Therefore, I have gone on to consider if Santander acted positively and sympathetically to 
Miss Ts circumstances once it was made aware of her financial difficulty. 
On 1 October 2018 it appears that Miss T made Santander aware she was unwell, so 
Santander blocked any charges being applied to the account. Later that month I can see that 
Santander issued a letter to Miss T advising that she was not making enough credits to the 
account. It explained that an overdraft limit is decided based on the credits which enter the 
account. Ms T was made aware that if payments were not made in the next two weeks the 
overdraft would be removed.
Having reviewed the contact notes, it appears between October and December 2018 there 
were conversations which took place via phone (with the customer assist team) and letters 
issued explaining that Miss T had not operated the account in line with the terms and 
conditions. In November 2018 Santander agreed to place Miss Ts account with the 
customer assist team. This was done to provide Miss T with some breathing space as she 
was unwell but it did make it clear that this wouldn't be indefinitely.
On 12 December 2018 Santander sent a further letter stating it tried to contact Miss T but 
was unable to get hold of her. Miss T sent an email confirming she was still in the same 
position but would able to make a payment to the account in February 2019. 
In March 2019 I can see a payment plan was agreed with Miss T. She said she would pay 
£20 per month into the account, but unfortunately Miss T didn't keep to the payment plan 
agreed. Again, I can see Santander tried to contact Miss T in April and May 2019 but was 
unable to reach her. 
So, as the payment plan had been broken, not enough credits had entered the account and 
Santander was unable to contact Miss T, it made the decision to remove her overdraft 
facility. And I dont think this was unreasonable considering Miss T had not kept to the 
payment plan she had agreed to. And I cant see any evidence to suggest Miss T had 
contacted Santander to make it aware she wouldn't be able to keep to that agreement. 
Overall Santander sent the account to the customer assist team temporarily, stopped 
applying charges and agreed a repayment plan, which I think demonstrates it has acted 
positively and sympathetically. I appreciate Miss T thinks more couldve been done by Santander in order to support her. 
But having considered the income and expenditure assessment she completed with 
Santander Miss T didn't have any surplus income to offer towards a further repayment or 
consolidation loan (which she has previously mentioned). So, I cant see how that wouldve 
improved Miss Ts circumstances. 
Miss T has also said that her account shouldn't have been defaulted. But under the terms 
and conditions it says if a customer fails to manage the account in accordance with the 
terms Santander may ask for the full balance to be repaid. If there is an outstanding balance 
the account may be defaulted. Santander tried to contact Miss T several times and was 
unable to get hold of her, so it issued a default notice. The account was defaulted later that 
year and Im satisfied it was applied correctly.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and after being made aware of Miss Ts circumstances acted positively and sympathetically. 
With that in mind I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman