DRN-4286057
The complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered for 
the total loss of his truck following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also 
unhappy with its level of service. Mr W is represented in this matter by Mrs W, a named 
driver on his policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ws truck was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. Admiral 
offered him £5,500 in settlement of his claim. The policy excess was waived as Admiral had 
received an admission of liability from the other drivers insurer. But Mr W was unhappy with 
this offer. He thought he couldnt replace his truck for this amount. Admiral later increased its 
offer to £5,730.60 as it realised it hadnt added VAT. 
Mr W remained unhappy with this, that Admiral deducted an amount for retained salvage 
when he hadnt said he wanted to keep the truck, and with its customer service. Admiral said 
its settlement offer was fair as the valuation was based on two of the motor trade guides we 
use. It said Mr W hadnt said he didnt want to retain the salvage. But it thought its customer 
service had been wanting and it offered Mr W £100 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had reasonably based its settlement for the cars market value on two of the motor trade 
guides we use. But she found a valuation in a third guide which she thought should also be 
considered. So she discounted the lowest of the three guides as it was out of step with the 
others and took an average of the two highest valuations.
She thought Admiral should increase its settlement offer to £6,656, recalculate the salvage 
deduction, and add interest on the difference. She thought Admiral had explained the 
retention process to Mr W and he hadnt said whether or not he wanted to retain the salvage. 
So she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in this. But she thought Admiral should 
increase its compensation for poor service to £200.  
Admiral replied that it thought it was fair to take an average of the three valuations and it said 
it would increase its settlement to this amount. It agreed to pay interest on the difference in 
payment. And it agreed to pay £200 compensation for service failings. Admiral asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W wants a fair settlement for the loss of his truck. He said hed 
seen similar trucks advertised for between £8,000 and £10,000 and so he was disappointed 
with Admirals offer. 
I can see that Mr Ws policy provides for the trucks market value in the case of its total loss. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mrs W has provided adverts for similar trucks advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Our Investigator thought Admirals settlement offer was fair as it had followed our approach 
in using two of the motor trade guides. But she thought it should also take into account a 
further valuation she found in a third motor trade guide. And I agree that it would be unfair to 
Mr W to discount this valuation as we look for valuations from four motor trade guides to 
ensure a fair outcome. So Ive checked how the valuations were made.  
I can see that the Investigator looked in the motor trade guides we use for trucks of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ws truck at the date of its loss. In keeping 
with our approach she discounted the lowest valuation as it was significantly different to the 
other two which were very similar. 
And Im satisfied that she then correctly took an average of these two valuations. The 
average of the valuations she found was £6,656. And so I agree that Admiral should fairly 
and reasonably increase its base settlement offer to this amount. 
Admiral had deducted the salvage as Mr W retained this. I can see that Mrs W was unhappy 
with this as they then had the trouble and stress of selling the salvage. But, as our 
Investigator explained, Mr W was given the opportunity to tell Admiral whether or not he 
wanted to retain the salvage, but he didnt answer the question he was repeatedly asked. 
So I cant say that it was unfair for Admiral to deduct the salvage value. It will now have to 
recalculate this due to the increase in the base valuation and, as it has agreed, pay interest 
on the difference in settlement. 
Admiral has also agreed to increase its compensation for its level of service to £200. I can 
see that Mrs W had to chase Admiral for updates and didnt receive promised calls back. 
This caused Mr W and Mrs W stress over several weeks. And I think, in keeping with our 
published guidance, £200 is reasonable compensation where there have been service 
issues lasting several weeks.
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
1. Increase the valuation for Mr Ws truck to £6,656, calculate the new salvage charge 
based on its internal criteria, deduct this, and then pay Mr W the difference.
2. Add interest on this difference at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
previous settlement (7 December 2022) until final payment.
3. Increase its offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level 
of service to £200 in total, as its agreed to do. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman