DRN-3221788
The complaint
A company who Ill refer to as L has complained that Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT) mis-
sold its motor trade insurance policy.
Mr A, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.  
What happened
Mr A bought a motor trade road risks policy through QMT to cover his valeting and detailing
business. Not long after hed taken out the policy a customers motorbike was stolen from Ls
premises.
Mr A tried to claim for the theft on Ls insurance policy. The insurer declined the claim as L 
didnt have the right type of cover. It said for customers vehicles to be covered at the
premises, Mr A would have needed to have bought stock of vehicles cover as well. And as
he hadnt the claim wasnt covered.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained to QMT. He said hed found out that a road 
risks policy wasnt right for him, as if he was to suffer a loss it would be at Ls premises. He 
said he only drives customers vehicles into and out of Ls premises so to not be covered for 
them within 400 meters of Ls premises was absurd.
QMT reviewed the complaint and turned it down. It said the policy had been sold correctly
and said that Mr A hadnt told them he needed stock of vehicles cover or that he also
valeted/detailed motorbikes, as the policy only covered him for cars. Mr A didnt agree and
referred his complaint here. He said he was new to the motor trade and didnt know he
needed stock of vehicles cover. He also said if hed been told this he would have bought it
and his claim therefore would have been covered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found that
QMT sold the policy in an advised sale and hadnt recommended a policy which adequately
matched Mr As needs. In particular, she found the statement of fact had questions around
stock of vehicles cover and whether Mr As business involved motorbikes, but these had
both been answered as no, and Mr A hadnt been asked them in the sales call. She thought
that if Mr A had been asked about them, he would have been recommended stock of
vehicles cover which also covered motorbikes, and therefore its likely his claim would have
been covered. Because of this she recommended QMT cover Ls claim, minus any excess
and additional premium he would have paid for the increased cover.
QMT didnt agree, it raised a number of points but in summary it disagreed the policy had
been mis-sold. In particular it said Mr A hadnt disclosed his needs properly and even if he
had motorbikes wouldnt have been covered as it wasnt normal business for him to
valet/detail them. It also said the value of the bike had been inflated and that Mr A hadnt
evidenced his loss and had also not properly declared the value of vehicles he works on. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2021 where I said:
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that a firm should specify its
customers demands and needs based on the information obtained from the customer and
propose a policy that is consistent with those demands and needs. Where a sale is on an
advised basis the firm should take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice and
it also has a general duty to provide information in a way that is clear, fair and not
misleading.
Mr A said his business involved valeting/detailing, and therefore he doesnt drive customers
cars on the road, he said he only drives them into and out of Ls premises to be worked on
and stored. For this reason, he doesnt think QMT sold him a suitable policy as it is whats
called a road risks policy. This type of policy would mean Mr A was insured to drive
customers vehicles on the road. Which Mr A said he doesnt do.
Ls policy was sold during an advised sale over the phone. As this was a commercial sale
there is also a requirement on Mr A to give a fair presentation of the risk. A fair and
reasonable way to do this is for him to be asked clear questions so QMT understood his
demands and needs.
Ive listened to the sales call and Mr A let QMT know he wanted a motor trade policy along
with the details of his business and what he does. He also asked for comprehensive cover.
While QMT sold Mr A a road risks policy, it didnt explain this to him or discuss other policies
he might need. QMT also hasnt provided a demand and needs for L. During the call though
QMT asked Do you own or deal with any high-performance vehicles?, Mr A responds and
said, there is going to be sports performance vehicles, yea. Ive also noted that the
Statement of Fact asks, What percentage of the business is involved with motorcycles?
and next to this its marked 0. However, QMT didnt ask Mr A whether his business also
worked on motorbikes. If QMT had asked this question I think its likely Mr A would have said
he does, because Mr A had a motorbike in to work on.
The Statement of Fact also asks whether stock of vehicles cover is needed, and this is
marked as no. However, I havent heard anything in the sales call to indicate that QMT
asked Mr A this question. Considering both of these questions are answered on the
Statement of Fact but not mentioned in the sales call, Im not persuaded QMT did enough to
understand Mr As needs.
I dont think QMT asked Mr A all the questions it should have done. However, I also dont
think it took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. I say that because as Mr
A told QMT Ls business involves valeting/detail and cleaning of customers vehicles I think
this should have prompted QMT to either let Mr A know his customers vehicles wouldnt be
insured while on site, and/or recommend him a policy which did provide this level of cover.
If QMT had done what it should have done, I think Mr A would have taken out a policy that
covered him for the circumstances of his claim.
Ive therefore looked at how its failure to do this this has impacted L. Mr A said L has had to
pay the value of the motorbike to the owner. I understand QMT raised some questions about
this and asked why the owner didnt claim on their own policy. QMT also said the motorbike
was valued at £9,650 and that Mr A paid over the odds for it. I asked Mr A to provide
evidence of what he paid the owner of the motorbike and hes shown that he paid him
£10,000. So, while that is slightly higher than the figure QMT valued the motorbike at using
the trade guides, Im not persuaded Mr A has paid an unreasonable amount for the
motorbike, as its close to the value QMT place on the motorbike. And as this is the loss L
has incurred due to QMTs error, it follows that the fair and reasonable outcome is for QMT
to reimburse L that money, as its a cost L shouldnt have had.
However, if Mr A had the right level of cover, he would have paid a higher premium for thebetter level of cover. Therefore, its only fair and reasonable for QMT to deduct the difference
between what Mr A paid for Ls policy, and what he should have paid for the right level of
cover. Ive seen an e-mail from QMT to Mr A to say it could provide stock of vehicle cover for
£1,905, so Im satisfied this is a fair amount to deduct from what it pays. Mr A would also
have had an excess applied to the claim, so its also only fair for QMT to deduct the excess
he had on the policy he did take out, £500. By deducting £1,905 and £500 from the £10,000
Mr A paid, it means L is out of pocket by £7,595, as L has not had this money QMT should
add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount, to compensate L for not having the
money.
I understand QMT has questioned whether Ls claim would have been successful if it had
the right level of cover. But as L didnt its unclear if an insurer would have paid the claim, as
this would depend on the terms of the policy. However, I think its likely that if Mr A had been
sold the right level of cover and it had been properly explained to him, he would have known
what conditions the policy had, and I think its likely he would have complied with them. Ive
also considered QMTs point about Mr As premium being higher in the following years if he
had a claim on his policy, however Im also aware many insurers dont just ask about claims,
but also ask about any losses or incidents. So, I think its also likely, depending on what his
future insurers want to know, that he may still have increased premiums. So, Im not
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to deduct that from what QMT needs to pay. 
Mr A responded and said he didnt think it was fair for QMT to deduct £1,905 for the 
additional cover. This was because L had needed to buy another policy elsewhere which 
included this cover and if this policy had been correctly sold it would have still been running. 
QMT also responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. It said its normal for its 
advisor to check a customers website when doing a quote and Ls website doesnt mention 
or imply it works on motorbikes. It also said that: Mr A knows the customer personally; he 
failed to disclose details of his other directorship during the quote; that Ls website doesnt 
comply with the Business Names Act; and doesnt appear to comply with the ICO 
requirements or say about vehicles being left overnight. QMT also raised concerns over: 
evidencing the loss; whether the motorbikes owner claimed on their own insurance; the 
premises; and the security at the premises which it says would have caused an issue with 
making a successful claim. Overall it raised doubts about L and its ability to make a 
successful claim.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both responses and Ive not been persuaded to depart from my provisional 
decision.
I will address Ls comments first. Ive considered the deduction for the additional cover for 
stock of vehicles and that it has also had to buy another policy to cover part of the same time 
period as this one. However, Im also aware L had a pro-rata refund of this policy when it 
was cancelled so has benefited from that. So, while L has bought another policy its possible 
it would have also had to pay more than the quote to cover stock of vehicles for a motorbike. 
And as L has already received a pro-rata refund for the cancelled policy, Im not persuaded it 
would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if QMT isnt allowed to deduct the amount it 
quoted for stock of vehicles cover for L.
Ill now turn to QMTs comments. Mr A has said he only knows the customer who had their 
motorbike stolen through his dealings with L. Im also not persuaded that if he knew them personally that would prevent a valid insurance claim for a stolen vehicle. My provisional 
decision also covered about Ls business working on motorbikes and Mr As other 
directorship, so I see no reason to repeat that. Furthermore, my role here isnt to assess Ls 
website and whether it complies with ICO requirements, so I see no reason to comment on 
that further either. 
Mr A has also provided evidence of Ls loss by paying its customer for the stolen motorbike 
and the legal agreement between them to say Ls customer hasnt claimed on their 
insurance. I havent seen anything from QMT to indicate that Ls customer did claim on their 
policy. So, Im not persuaded they have benefited twice. Overall, when considering all of 
QMTs points, Ive not seen enough to persuade me it sold the policy correctly and that its 
not fair and reasonable to compensate L for its loss because of this.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd to pay L £7,595 plus 8% simple 
interest per annum, calculated from the date L made payment to the motorbikes owner, to 
the date Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman