DRN-4154842
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays when completing a transfer from his Nationwide Building 
Society ISA account. 
What happened
Mr S had a fixed rate ISA with Nationwide but found an alternative account with higher 
returns from another business Ill refer to as C. On 17 November 2022 Nationwide received 
an ISA transfer request from C. But the ISA transfer form requested a transfer at the existing 
ISAs maturity date. As the maturity date was more than three months away, Nationwides 
systems rejected the ISA request. Mr S has confirmed that Nationwide didnt contact him 
about the failed ISA transfer. 
Nationwide says the next ISA transfer request was received from C on 15 December 2022 
and processed with funds being sent the following day. Nationwide says C confirmed the ISA 
transfer process was completed on 19 December 2022. 
Mr S has told us he visited a branch of Nationwide on 15 December and was told the ISA 
funds had been placed in a holding account but says he wasnt given clear guidance on the 
process or what would happen next. 
Mr S went on to raise a complaint with both Nationwide and C. Mr S has told us that Cs 
complaint was upheld and it agreed to compensate him for the lost interest and service 
provided. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr S complaint and said it had correctly processed the 
ISA transfer requests it received from C. In a follow up final response, Nationwide offered 
Mr S £25 for failing to contact him after receiving an email. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. The investigator didnt find evidence 
of delays or mistakes by Nationwide and didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S asked to appeal 
and said he remained unhappy with Nationwides actions. As Mr S asked to appeal his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S was frustrated by what appeared to be unexplained delays with 
his ISA transfer. There were two businesses involved, Nationwide and C. In this decision, Im 
only looking at Nationwides actions and how it handled the ISA transfer process. 
Ive looked at the first ISA transfer request form Nationwide received and it doesnt ask for 
an immediate transfer of funds. The transfer request was made on the basis that it should 
take place on maturity of the existing fixed rate. But Nationwides confirmed that when the 
maturity date is more than 90 days away it cant process a transfer on that basis. So the 
transfer request C made was rejected. I havent seen anything that shows this was a mistake 
by Nationwide. 
Mr S has asked why Nationwide didnt contact him to explain what had happened. But 
Nationwide wasnt the party that requested the ISA transfer. I think Nationwides view that C 
would update Mr S as required and take any additional steps required as his new ISA 
provider was reasonable. 
Mr S says another ISA transfer request was made by C on 28 November 2022 but 
Nationwide has no record of receiving that. The next transfer request received was on 15 
December 2022. Ive reviewed the request form and it includes directions to proceed 
immediately on this occasion. Nationwide processed the ISA transfer on 15 December 2022 
and it was sent to C the following day. Im satisfied that once Nationwide received a useable 
ISA transfer request, it proceeded without delay. 
Mr S has told us he visited a Nationwide branch on 15 December 2022 and was given 
unclear information. Mr S says he was told the funds had been placed in a holding account 
at that time. But thats likely to be broadly accurate as Nationwide has confirmed the funds 
were processed to be sent to C on 15 December 2022. I appreciate the member of staff may 
not have been as clear in their explanation as Mr S required. But I think they were trying to 
assist Mr S and provide an update. Whilst Ive taken Mr S comments into account, I havent 
found grounds to award compensation on the basis of his branch visit. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but as I havent seen any evidence of delays or problems 
caused by Nationwide during his ISA transfer Im not telling it to increase the award or do 
anything else. 
Nationwide offered Mr S £25 for failing to respond to an email earlier this year. Im satisfied 
£25 reflects the distress and inconvenience caused and is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve Mr S complaint. As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mr S complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to increase the award. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman