DRN-4372120
The complaint
Mr M and Miss V are unhappy Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy. In addition to this, Mr M and Miss V have said they 
received poor customer service from Admiral. 
What happened
Mr M and Miss V took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering them for 
various pre-departure and post-departure risks between 6 September 2020 and 
5 December 2021.
Mr M and Miss V were due to go on holiday during this insurance period  with them due to 
depart on their trip on 6 June 2021 and return on 13 June 2021. However, Mr M and Miss V 
said they couldnt go on their holiday as planned. They said this was because of a change in 
Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advice about the country they 
were intending to visit  in relation to Coronavirus. They said the country was put on the 
amber list by the FCDO, so they couldnt travel there.
Because they werent travelling any longer, Mr M and Miss V contacted the provider of their 
holiday accommodation and transfers and were able to get a refund for these elements of 
the trip. They also tried to contact the airline they had been due to fly with, to gain a refund 
for their flights. But the airline declined to provide Mr M and Miss V a refund, saying this was 
because the flights had still gone ahead without them. 
As Mr M and Miss V werent successful in gaining a refund from the airline, they raised a 
claim with their travel insurer, Admiral, in January 2022. They claimed for the lost cost of 
their flights, £400.94, minus any applicable excess. 
In March 2022 Admiral declined the claim. Admiral said that Mr M and Miss Vs policy didnt 
provide cover for a cancellation due to FCDO advice advising against travel, in relation to 
Coronavirus. So, it said it wouldnt be settling the loss.
The following day, Mr M and Miss V responded to Admiral, and asked to speak to a manager 
about the outcome of their claim. But theyve said this wasnt responded to. As they werent 
responded to, Mr M and Miss V referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Following this, on 27 April 2023, Admiral provided a final response letter to Mr M and Miss V. 
This letter noted that it had incorrectly paid a previous claim in 2020 when this wasnt 
covered. And it apologised for the confusion this caused when Mr M and Miss V came to 
make their most recent claim. Admiral offered £65 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mr M and Miss V.
Mr M and Miss V remained unhappy. They still considered their claim should be settled.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
Admiral had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr M and Miss Vs policy when 
they declined their claim. And our investigator said that although they couldnt consider the 
outcome of the previous claim that was paid out by Admiral, they considered £65 was fair 
compensation for the confusion Admiral had caused in this regard. 
Our investigator also noted that whilst Mr M and Miss V had spent some time chasing a 
response from Admiral following it declining their claim, they didnt think anything more 
needed to be done in respect of this  as the claim decline was clearly communicated on 
18 March 2023. And there wasnt much more Admiral could have said to explain why the 
loss wasnt covered  beyond what it had already done.
Mr M and Miss V responded and noted they understood the terms in the policy now, which 
excluded their claim, as it arose from Coronavirus. But they didnt agree with the overall 
outcome reached by our investigator. They highlighted their concerns with the customer 
service provided by Admiral, and its lack of reply to communications. They also said Admiral 
were wrong in noting that a previous claim Mr M and Miss V made was incorrectly paid out. 
They said they had a valid claim then. Mr M and Miss V felt Admiral may be saying this to 
influence the outcome of this complaint. 
As Mr M and Miss V didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on requiring Admiral to pay Mr M and Miss V £165 
compensation in total. But Im not intending on requiring Admiral to do anything differently in 
respect of the claim decision Admiral arrived at.
Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered all information submitted to me, when 
considering this complaint. However, when explaining my decision, Ive only referred to 
evidence I consider necessary to detail my reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy 
but reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Admiral acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr M and Miss Vs claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr M and Miss Vs policy documentation  to see what cover the policy 
provides. On doing so, Im aware Mr M and Miss Vs policy does provide cover for the 
cancellation of a trip  in certain circumstances. These circumstances include situations 
such as the death or illness of the policyholder or travelling companion, unemployment or 
FCDO advise against travel. 
But Im also aware of a general exclusion detailed within the policy, which applies to all 
sections of the policy, which explains:
We will not pay a claim which is in any way caused by or resulting from:
()
28. CoronavirusCoronavirus disease (COVID-19), severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS 
CoV-2) or any future mutation or variation of SARS-CoV-2. This includes claims arising from 
the fear or threat of these.
This is also made clear within the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). As the 
policy doesnt provide cover for a claim arising from Coronavirus, and Mr M and Miss Vs 
claim was for cancelling a trip due to the Coronavirus pandemic, Im satisfied Admiral acted 
fairly in declining their claim. It isnt covered by the policy.
Mr M and Miss V feel that Admirals comments about a previous claim, and that it was paid 
but shouldnt have been, may have been made to influence the outcome of this complaint. 
But I dont agree this influences the outcome of this complaint. I havent considered the 
outcome of the previous claim Mr M and Miss V made when reaching my decision. It isnt 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint, because the two claims are separate and 
standalone. Rather, Ive considered whether, on this particular claim, Admiral has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. And Im satisfied it did  for the reasons 
noted above.
I know Mr M and Miss V would like this service to comment on the previous claim. But Ive 
not done this. Thats because this complaint wasnt about a previous claim, but the one 
made by Mr M and Miss V in January 2022. So, it isnt for me to review the previous claim 
and comment on it. 
Ive considered Admirals handling of Mr M and Miss Vs claim. And in particular, their 
concern that after being told their claim was declined on 18 March 2023, they asked to 
speak to someone  and never received a response.
Ive looked at copies of this communication. And I can see that Mr M and Miss V emailed 
Admiral on 19 March 2023, asking to speak to a manager in respect of their claim, otherwise 
theyd raise a formal complaint. But Mr M and Miss V received no response. They chased 
the matter further  for example on 19 April 2023, and again following this. But, from the 
information provided to me, it doesnt seem a response was ever received.
I do think a better customer service could have been provided to Mr M and Miss V here. 
Whilst Admiral had explained why it was declining Mr M and Miss Vs claim, its not 
unreasonable for a policyholder to seek further communication at that stage. And its 
reasonable for a policyholder to expect a response. 
Ive thought about whether Admiral should do anything further in respect of this element of 
the complaint, thinking about the impact this lack of response had on Mr M and Miss V. Its 
clear the lack of response was troubling and upsetting  which is evidenced by the further 
emails they sent, chasing a reply. With this in mind, I think it would be reasonable for Admiral 
to pay Mr M and Miss V £100 compensation in this regard, as Im satisfied that fairly 
recognises the impact of the upset caused.
In addition to this, Im aware Admiral offered Mr M and Miss V £65, by way of an apology for 
accepting a previous claim, when it said it shouldnt have. As above, I havent considered 
that previous claim. So, I dont know whether that was correctly paid by Admiral or not. But it 
seems fair for Admiral to have offered compensation to Mr M and Miss V in this regard  as 
its clear confusion was caused here. So, if Admiral hasnt paid this to Mr M and Miss V 
already, it should pay this too.
This means a total compensation payment of £165.
Mr M and Miss V responded, accepting my provisional decision. Admiral didnt reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Admiral should pay Mr M and Miss V £165 in total. 
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr M and Miss V £165 compensation in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss V 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman