DRN-2499734
The complaint
Mr Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
In summary, the CMC said:
The investment wasnt diversified and 100% of Mr Bs investment was exposed to a 
single asset class. 
No alternative investment products were considered. 
The risk wasnt explained. 
He was advised to invest too much money. 
What happened
In February 2007, Mr B was advised to invest £5,000 into a Capital Protected Individual 
Savings Account, referred to as the ISA. 
The following was recorded on the fact find:
Mr B was in his mid-60s, single with no dependents. He was in good health. 
He was retired, with no debts and owned his own home mortgage free.  
He was in receipt of a fixed (private) pension in the sum of £10,500 a year and had a 
net monthly disposable income of £210. 
He had £9,000 invested in a guaranteed investment bond (GIB), 
He had savings of £16,800  including the investment.  
His attitude to risk was confirmed as cautious. 
His objective was to get a better return than was available with his savings account 
In October 2012, the ISA matured for £5,063. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Given Mr Bs financial circumstances, he had capacity to invest £5,000 in the 
medium to long term, without the need to access his money. 
After investing Mr B was still left with roughly 70% of his savings. 
If his savings didnt include the GIB  its unclear if it did  Mr B wouldve been left 
with roughly 81% of his money. 
In December 2007, Mr Bs income was due to increase as he was due to receive his 
state pension  in addition to his private pension  so had no affordability issues.    
The recommendation met his objective and was in line with his assessed risk 
appetite. 
Mr B was generally aware of the risks associated with capital protected investments 
and wanted to invest in the stockmarket, without the risks associated with it. 
According to the suitability letter, its likely that alternatives were discussed but Mr B 
wanted to invest in the ISA. 
Although the recommendation didnt do as well as other investments, its only with 
the benefit of hindsight that we know that other investments wouldve done better.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, it made the following key 
points:
The investigator hadnt taken into consideration the rules that applied in law and best 
industry practice. 
Hes failed to address the point that Mr Bs returns were entirely dependent on the 
performance of a single asset class. 
The recommendation wasnt suitable for a cautious risk investor. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said that without the benefit of hindsight the adviser wouldnt have known 
which investment wouldve done better.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr B. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr B wasnt able, and willing, to invest £5,000 in the 
medium to long term with a chance to achieving better returns than his savings account. I 
note it was recorded in the fact find that it was less than 25% of his investible assets and 
according to the suitability letter he still had £11,800 after investing. This would suggest that 
the £9,000 invested in the GIB was probably separate to his available cash. 
I note that it was recorded that Mr B was single, with no debts or dependents, and had a 
fixed monthly disposable income of £200 from his private pension, so he had no obvious 
affordability issues. I note that his income was enough for him to maintain his lifestyle and 
that he didnt need more money. 
Whilst I appreciate the point the CMC makes about the dependency on a single asset class, 
on balance in this instance I dont think this renders the recommendation unsuitable for Mr B. 
Im satisfied that he was happy to invest his money in the fund that offered capital protection. 
I note that other funds (likely to be available) didnt offer this protection, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest he was interested in alternatives either. I note Mr B had a tendency to 
keep his money in savings accounts.
Mr B was also retired and in receipt of a private pension  and due to receive his state 
pension at the end of 2007  so as a pensioner I dont think he was in a position to be able 
to replace any capital losses. In the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation 
was unsuitable for Mr B even though other options were available. 
Im conscious that he wanted to invest in the stock market without the usual risks associated 
with it, so I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable or contrary to his cautious 
attitude to risk. I note it was recorded in the fact find that Mr B tends to agree that maintaining the money he has is more important to him than making it grow and that he 
prefers investments with least risk to his money even if they offer lower growth.   
It also seems that Mr B chose to invest in the ISA, and that he had some experience of 
capital protected products having invested £9,000 in a GIB (in 2004)  which in 2007 was 
valued at £10,000. So, Mr B is more likely than not to have been aware of how these 
products generally operated. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman