DRN-2404929
The complaint
Mr B2 complains on Mr B1s behalf that MBNA Limited failed to identify him as vulnerable 
after a long term health condition impacted his ability to manage his finances. Mr B2 has 
asked MBNA to refund the interest Mr B1 has paid since 2015. 
What happened
Mr B1 had two credit cards with MBNA, one was opened in 1995 and the other in 2004. After 
the last increases, the credit limits for Mr B1s cards were £4,500 and £19,100. 
Mr B2 has explained that from around 2015 Mr B1 was unable to manage his finances and 
became vulnerable after he was diagnosed with a serious health condition. Mr B2 has 
complained on Mr B1s behalf that MBNA should have identified he was vulnerable during 
this period and shouldnt have increased the credit limits of his credit cards. Mr B2 has asked 
MBNA to refund interest and charges applied from 2015 onwards. 
MBNA issued two responses to Mr B1s complaint. It said the credit limit increases we in line 
with its lending criteria at the time and had taken Mr B1s account history into account as 
well as information from the credit reference agencies. MBNA didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly by increasing Mr B1s credit limit. MBNA later said that as soon as it became aware 
of Mr B1s health problems steps were taken to ensure stop interest and charges being 
added to the accounts. MBNA didnt offer to refund the interest and charges applied since 
2015. 
Mr B1s credit cards were closed and defaulted in early 2020. 
Mr B2 referred Mr B1s account to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They felt 
MBNA had dealt with Mr B1s complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. The 
investigator didnt agree that MBNA should have known Mr B1 was vulnerable based on how 
he handled his credit cards. Mr B2 asked to appeal Mr B1s complaint so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B2 for sharing details of Mr B1s medical condition with us when bringing 
the complaint. I understand Mr B1s condition means his capacity to manage his finances 
was impacted over time. And I understand why Mr B2 has complained to MBNA about Mr 
B1s accounts. 
Ive looked at both accounts to see whether MBNA shouldve picked up on Mr B1s 
vulnerability and done more to help. Ive also considered whether the decision to increase 
the credit limits was reasonable and had an impact on Mr B1s situation. 
MBNA increased both credit limits in 2018. One credit cards limit was increase from £3,000 
to £4,500 and the others went from £17,300 to £19,100. MBNA has explained it looked at 
Mr B1s credit file and took the history of both credit cards into account before deciding to 
increase the credit limits. MBNA has also pointed out it acted in line with the account terms. 
Whilst I understand Mr B1s health problems go back to 2015, I havent found MBNA acted 
unfairly before approving the credit limit increases. 
Lenders have to ensure they complete proportionate checks to ensure any new lending is 
sustainable for the borrower. Here, MBNA looked at what it knew about Mr B1, based on 
how he had handled his accounts, and information it obtained from the credit reference 
agencies. I think those checks were proportionate and that MBNAs decision to increase Mr 
B1s credit limits was reasonable based on what it knew about him. 
I also think its reasonable to note that Mr B1 didnt use the additional credit limits MBNA 
approved. During the period in question, Mr B1s balances appear to have reduced because 
of the contractual payments he was making, rather than gone up. 
Ive thought carefully about whether MBNA shouldve been aware that Mr B1 had become 
vulnerable based on his account activity. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B1 and Mr B2, but I 
havent found anything that would indicate to MBNA that his situation had changed. Mr B1s 
credit cards appear to have been well handled and maintained below the maximum limits of 
what he could borrow. There werent any missed or late payments and I havent found any 
clear signs that wouldve highlighted to MBNA there was a problem. 
When a business is made aware that a customer is vulnerable, I would expect them to treat 
them positively and sympathetically. MBNA was notified of Mr B1s condition in the summer 
of 2019 and I understand the credit cards have since been closed and defaulted. But, from 
that point, MBNA stopped applying interest and charges to the balances. MBNAs contact 
notes show it also referred Mr B1s accounts to a specialist team to assist. I think MBNAs 
actions were reasonable in the circumstances of Mr B1s case and I havent found he was 
treated unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B1 and Mr B2 but as Im satisfied MBNA has dealt with this 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr B1s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B2 to accept or 
reject my decision on behalf of Mr B1 before 26 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman