DRN-2209706
The complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  It 
credited her account with some of the transactions but then re-debited them again.
What happened
Mrs C says many transactions which occurred on her account between 2018 and 2019 were 
not made by her.  When she complained to Barclays, she did so gradually  so it re-credited 
her account with some of the transactions. 
Following a review of the transactions, Barclays decided to hold Mrs C liable for them.  It 
sent her a notice to close her account too.  It said the transactions occurred over three debit 
cards, so this meant Mrs C wasnt taking care of her cards.  It also said Mrs C had 
successfully logged onto her online banking during the relevant periods.   She would have 
seen the transactions leaving her account earlier than when she had complained about them 
 which was in March and April 2019.
On 2nd July 2019, Barclays closed Mrs Cs account.
Mrs C then came to this service.  In her first conversation with us, she told us the following:
-she had moved out of her property, but someone still had access to it and was able 
to access her post  including her card and PIN;
-no-one else could have logged onto her online banking and she was in hospital at 
this time;
-she had been in an abusive relationship and her husband could have manipulated 
her into giving him all her security information;
-he had subsequently been arrested for coercive and controlling behaviour;
-she had been and was still suffering from poor mental health;
In a subsequent conversation with us, she told the following:
-her husband had been arrested for an assault against her daughter;
-he had been her carer  looking after her whilst she was ill  and she had disclosed 
all her codes and secure information to him as he had taken responsibility for the 
finances.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Barclays to do anymore.  He explained this to Mrs 
C.  He explained the concept of apparent authority to her too.  But she disagreed with the 
investigator.
Mrs C said she would provide information from professionals she had been working with to 
show her mental health was poor at the time and effectively, she was not in a position to give 
her authority to her husband.  
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if it is more likely than not that Mrs C authorised these transactions, 
Barclays is entitled to hold her liable for them.  But authority is a two-stage test and consists 
of authentication and consent.
Authentication in this case involves the use of Mrs Cs genuine card and PIN or the entering 
of her card details online.  Im satisfied from what I have seen that the disputed transactions 
have been authenticated.  So, I then need to decide if I think the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that Mrs C consented to these payments.
From what I have seen and read, I think she did  albeit under a term which is called 
apparent authority. The relevant rules which allow for this form of authority are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
The rules say apparent authority is a process which allows for payment transactions to be 
initiated by someone acting on behalf of a customer  so in this case, Mrs Cs husband is 
said to be acting on her behalf.
There are some inconsistencies to the account Mrs C gives as to how her husband came to 
be in possession of her card and PIN - but I think the most likely scenario is that she 
provided him with these details just like she told this service when she first brought her 
complaint to us.  This may have been because he took care of the finances but by providing 
him with her card and PIN, Mrs C has provided him with her apparent authority.
And Im afraid if her husband then went on to make transactions in addition to those she 
asked him to make, these are still authorised.
Ive thought about whether there came a time when this apparent authority could have been 
said to have ended.  In other words, did there come a time when Mrs C did or said 
something which would annul this authority.  An example could be where she asks the bank 
to replace her card or she takes the card back from her husband who then takes it and uses 
it without her knowledge. 
Mrs Cs complaint covers a period over which three separate cards were ordered and used.  
I have already made a finding that she gave her cards to her husband.  So, although new 
cards were requested, I dont think this terminated the apparent authority.  And this cant be 
because Mrs C didnt know about the transactions because Barclays records show she 
logged onto her online banking during the time she is complaining about and must have 
seen them.
Ive also carefully thought about Mrs Cs submissions regarding her health difficulties at the 
time.  I remind myself that she engaged with this service during the lifetime of the complaint 
and told the investigator she needed more time to submit further evidence.  That was some 
months ago and Ive seen nothing further from Mrs C which I need to consider before 
making my findings.  My final decision is therefore based on the evidence which had been 
submitted up to this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman