DRN-1645507
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with their 
fire damage claim under their home insurance. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P had buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, I will refer only to Mrs P throughout my decision.
Mrs P made a claim under her home insurance for a fire which had damaged her home. The 
fire caused significant damage, meaning she and her family needed alternative 
accommodation (AA). However, Mrs P felt that Ageas didnt handle her claim well. 
In summary, Mrs P complained to Ageas about:
its failure to communicate a timetable of repairs from the outset;
the number of times she had to move into different AA; 
the delays getting work done to her home while waiting for reports;
its failure to keep her updated with progress;
the failure to consider health issues and the family dog when arranging AA, and 
incomplete repairs when she moved back in to her home.
Ageas looked into Mrs Ps complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought that there had been shortfalls in the way Ageas handled the claim, 
particularly in relation to the AA. He suggested that Ageas should pay compensation of 
£400, but Mrs P didnt agree. 
A lot of discussion between Mrs P, our investigator and Ageas followed, during which the 
amount of compensation was the key sticking point. Ageas agreed compensation of £1000 
to address the issues raised. Mrs P said she would settle for £2500.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint, but I dont think its fair to ask Ageas to pay any 
more than the compensation of £1000 it has already agreed. Ill explain why.
Its clear at this stage that the facts of the matter are no longer disputed so I will only 
summarise them here. What remained for me to consider was whether the compensation 
Ageas agreed to is enough to address the problems Mrs P experienced while it was handling 
her claim.
Give the damage caused by the fire, it was always going to be a long process and an 
upheaval for Mrs P and her family. It was over three months before she moved back into her 
home and, even then, all restorative work wasnt completed. The length of time before Mrs P 
could move back home wasnt necessarily unreasonable, but its clear that Ageas couldve 
handled things differently and in a way which mightve helped Mrs P better understand the 
whole process  for example, an explanation of what needed to be done before authorising 
work to go ahead, a timetable of events, and progress reports. 
The main issue, though, is that Ageas offered AA but failed to manage it properly during the 
three months Mrs P was unable to live at home. In summary:
Mrs P moved more than 10 times during the three month period.
She spent two nights in a tent.
She lived at a relatives home because AA wasnt available.
She moved out of a hotel and back in a few days later because of lack of availability.
Mrs P was offered AA which didnt take into consideration her mobility issues.
The AA offered didnt always provide space for the full family, including their dog.
It was always going to take a long time to restore Mrs Ps home to a satisfactory living 
condition, so I wouldve hoped Ageas would find more suitable and longer term AA. I realise 
that AA isnt always available, but I dont think its acceptable that the family had to move so 
often. So, while Ageas covered the cost of the AA when provided, the overall upheaval at an 
already distressing time wouldve been significant. 
After some discussion, Ageas agreed to pay £1000. I cant imagine how distressing the 
situation mustve been for Mrs P, but I must keep in mind that the compensation is for the 
upset and inconvenience caused by the way Ageas handled the claim up to the point the 
complaint was brought to us. It is not intended to compensate Mrs P for the impact of the fire 
itself on her and her family. 
When Mrs P brought the complaint to us, Ageas hadnt finalised the claim and she went on 
to experience further problems. I understand she is aware that I cant look at those issues 
because Ageas must first have an opportunity to put things right. So, I can understand why 
Mrs P might think the compensation doesnt adequately address her overall complaint, but I 
think £1000 is fair for the problems she experienced up to the point at which she brought her 
complaint to us. For clarity, Mrs P may complain to Ageas about any matters subsequent to 
these. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ageas 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs P and Mr P £1000 by way of apology and in recognition of the shortfalls 
experienced when trying to provide Alternative Accommodation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman