DRN-4314396
The complaint
Mr N complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) didnt give him advance notice 
the promotional rate on his credit card was due to come to an end.
What happened
Mr N took out a credit card with Capital One that had an introductory rate of 0% interest for 
twelve months.  Mr N says that at the twelve-month stage, he realised by chance that the 
rate would be due to come to an end and scrambled around to get the money together to 
pay off the outstanding balance so he could avoid having interest charges.
Mr N was upset that Capital One didnt give him any advance warning and complained to 
them. They didnt uphold his complaint, they said they didnt tell him as the account balance 
had already been cleared.
Mr N remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. In summary she said: Capital One didnt need to tell Mr N the rate 
was due to come to an end, as they had informed him of the term of the promotional offer at 
the start of the contract.
Mr N disagreed, he argued that the Finance and Lending Association (FLA) recommends 
that lenders tell their customers four to eight weeks before the offer is due to expire. But this 
didnt change things for the investigator and so the matter has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Capital One is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), they set out the rules that 
Capital One must follow, these are laid out in the Consumer Credit Source book (CONC). 
CONC is silent on the need for a credit card provider, to give advance warning of an expiry 
date of a promotional rate.
Mr N has quoted information from the lending code of the FLA, but this is a voluntary 
association which lenders can choose to sign up to if they wish. I have checked and cant 
see that Capital One have signed up to be a member of FLA, so their lending code wont 
apply here.
I have seen the credit agreement which Mr N signed in November 2021, this states under 
interest rate:
The standard rates of Interest that we will charge you are:
Standard purchases rate: an effective rate of 0.00% p.a fixed for any statement 
period beginning within the first 12 months of your account.
Capital One have provided copies of Mr Ns statements. The November 2022 one shows he 
still had an outstanding balance which was attracting 0% interest. The statement also states 
that the estimated interest for the following month is 0%. 
The December statement covered a period that began within the first twelve-months of the 
account and so was still covered by the promotional rate of 0% interest. This statement 
shows that Mr N had cleared the outstanding balance on 9 November 2022  prior to the 
promotional rate expiring. This means he incurred no interest charges on his balance prior to 
clearing it.
While I dont disagree with Mr N that it would have been good practice for Capital One to 
give warning that the rate was due to expire, there was no obligation under the rules for 
them to do so and so I cant fairly say they did anything wrong here. 
And while I accept that Mr N says he had to gather the money together quickly to be able to 
be able to pay the balance off in time, there has been no detriment here. I say this because 
Mr N suffered no financial loss because Capital One didnt give him warning. And he would 
always have needed to pay the balance off at this time to avoid attracting interest. While Mr 
N may have found it inconvenient to have to do this quickly, it was his responsibility to keep 
a track of his account so he could be prepared to do this. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Capital One doesnt need to do anything 
different here and so it follows, I wont be upholding Mr Ns complaint.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with this outcome, and I understand his strength of feeling 
around this issue. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with 
Capital One  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman