DRN-3815050
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
has unfairly declined their claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a timeshare from a business which Ill call Business E in July 2004. 
The benefits under the timeshare were actually provided by a second business, which Ill call 
Business S. The total cost was £7,995. Mr and Mrs J paid Business E by taking out a loan 
from First National Consumer Finance Limited, which later because GE Money. Under the 
timeshare, Mr and Mrs J were entitled to stay on a narrowboat every other year.
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs J, using a professional representative (PR), complained to 
GE Money about the loan.1 PR said that s.75 CCA applied to the loan, which meant that 
GE Money could be jointly liable for misrepresentations and breaches of contract by 
Business E and PR made a claim to GE Money in those terms. In particular, it was said: 
When Mr and Mrs J bought the timeshare, Business E were acting as agents for 
Business S.
Mr and Mrs J were told that Business S ran the timeshare and that the assets 
(presumably the narrowboats) were held by a trustee for the benefit of the members.
The managing director of Business S, Mr H, was convicted of a fraud relating to 
Business S activities.
Under relevant laws, GE Money are responsible for the representations of 
Business S.
There were misrepresentations that the timeshare was an investment, valuable 
and worth a lot of money on the re-sale market. Mr and Mrs J were also told that 
the timeshare would be bought back if they no longer wanted it.
The contract has been frustrated as Mr and Mrs J are not able to give the timeshare 
back as Business S no longer exists.
Later on Business E also said it would not repurchase timeshares.
GE Money didnt respond to this claim, and so PR referred a complaint about that to our 
service. When doing so, PR sent us a skeleton argument that further set out its basis of 
claim. It reiterated that Business E were acting as agents of Business S. PR also argued that 
as a fraud had occurred, any limitation periods should be set aside.
Initially GE Money said it was unable to find any record of Mr and Mrs Js loan and said it 
needed more information to locate it. After a copy of the loan application was sent, 
GE Money set out its position on the complaint. It said it was still unable to find any record of 
the loan, but it only kept records of closed accounts for around six years, so it was likely the 
loan had been repaid more than six years earlier. GE Money said that any claim that 
Mr and Mrs J had for a misrepresentation was made outside of the periods set out in the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA), and so had been made too late. It said other parts of the claim 
1 It appears that PR also complained to First National Consumer Finance Limited in October 2016, but 
that complaint was sent to an incorrect address
needed to be made against Business E directly. GE Money also offered £25 for the delays 
taken in setting out its position on the claims.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it was one that should be 
upheld. He looked at the arrangements and relationships between all of the parties and 
thought that GE Money could be legally liable under s.75 CCA for some things that 
Business E did, but not Business S. However, he thought that any potential claim for 
misrepresentation had been made too late under the provisions in the LA and he couldnt 
see any actionable breach of contract by Business E.
GE Money had nothing to say in response. But PR, on behalf of Mr and Mrs J, disagreed 
with our investigator. It argued that Business E acted as agents for Business S, as 
Business E sold Business S product, so both businesses were liable for the mis-sale of the 
product. PR also set out, in detail, the relationships between Business S and other, linked 
businesses, as well as details of the director of Business S conviction for fraud.
As the parties didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. Having considered everything, I came to the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator, but for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision and invited both 
parties to respond with any further evidence or arguments. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that under the rules that govern how I decide 
complaints, I must take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
I said I would l focus on what I found material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So, although I had read everything that had been supplied to me, I may not have 
addressed every point that had been raised.
In this complaint, I thought it was important to first set out what I found Mr and Mrs J agreed 
to, with which business and whether they had any cause of action against those businesses 
for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I would then look at whether that was 
something GE Money needed to consider given the legal relationships between the parties. 
Finally, if I found that GE Money had to consider any claim, I thought about whether it had 
properly done so.
Mr and Mrs Js agreements
I looked at the available documents to see what it was that Mr and Mrs J agreed and with 
what business.
I saw a Purchase Agreement, dated 31 July 2004, between Business E (described as the 
Marketer) and Mr and Mrs J (described as the Purchaser). The agreement states:
The Marketer agrees to sell and the Purchaser agrees to buy the benefit of 
Exclusive Rights or Occupation of the Type of Boat described herein upon and 
subject to the terms and conditions stated on the reverse of this document and in the 
attached schedules.
The agreement goes on to say the price was £7,995 and Mr and Mrs J would be entitled to 
holidays in alternate years and that the management fee in 2004 was £276.60 plus VAT. 
The Purchase Agreement Conditions were also attached and ran to one page. Extracts of 
that read:4. After receipt of the balance of the Purchase price, the Marketer shall register the 
Purchaser with the Trustee as a Holiday Owner, thereafter the Marketer shall cause 
to be issued a Holiday Certificate, which shall entitle the Holiday Owner to Exclusive 
Rights of Occupation each year, for the Weekly Period(s) in the Season and type of 
Boat referred to in Schedule A. Where the context so permits and requires the 
provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding 
completion of the issue of the Holiday Certificate to the Purchaser.
On the same day, a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs J on Business E headed paper. It said that 
Mr and Mrs J had become members of Business S.
On 7 September 2004, a Holiday Certificate was issued by the Trustee and signed on 
behalf of Business S. The certificate states:
[Business S] a company registered in England and Wales (the Vendor), in 
pursuance of the Rules of Occupation of the Resort HEREBY GRANTS to the 
Holiday Owner stated below, the Exclusive Rights of Occupation of the Boat 
describedand subject to the observance by the Holiday Owner of the said Rules of 
Occupation including but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the 
provisions relating to payment of the Management Charge.
Having considered everything, I thought Mr and Mrs J contracted with Business E and in 
exchange they were supplied rights of occupation of a boat as set out in the Purchase 
Agreement. But the actual way in which Mr and Mrs J were able to exercise their right was 
by becoming members of Business S holiday club. So the actual accommodation wasnt 
provided by Business E. Instead, it was provided by Business S. I noted that I hadnt been 
provided with anything to show Mr and Mrs J ever received any correspondence or services 
from Business E after the date of purchase.
But Mr and Mrs J did receive a service from Business S and, under the Holiday Certificate, 
they had a contractual relationship with Business S whereby they were able to use the boat, 
but had to pay management charges in exchange. But as Mr and Mrs J didnt enter into an 
agreement with Business S directly, I said that they must have contracted with Business S 
through an agent. Here I thought that agent was Business E.
Was GE Money jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the 
creditor. So here, Mr and Mrs J (the debtors) were asking GE Money (the creditor) to answer 
their claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract over the problems set out above.
But I also noted that this doesnt apply to every claim Mr and Mrs J may have. GE Money is  
only responsible for claims when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in 
place. This is set out more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be 
arrangements in place so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit 
advanced. In Mr and Mrs Js case, they contracted with Business E directly and the loan 
proceeds were used to pay for Mr and Mrs Js timeshare that Business E supplied (via 
GE Money paying the Trustee in the first instance).
GE Money had nothing further to add when our investigator thought there was a DCS 
agreement between it and Business E and, in setting out its position, it didnt argue that 
there wasnt a DCS agreement in place. I noted that answering the question whether the 
DCS agreement covers Business S too isnt straightforward. It requires an examination of 
the arrangements between all of the parties, a determination of whether Business E and Business S are associates under s.184 and 187 CCA and an examination of GE Moneys 
understanding of Business S involvement in the transaction before it agreed to lend money. 
But having considered everything, I didnt think I needed to make a finding on this issue. 
That was because I thought GE Money would have a defence to any claims under s.75 CCA 
no matter what part of the agreements fell under the scope of s.75 CCA. So, for the 
purposes of this decision, I explained that I was going to assume that GE Money could be 
responsible for breaches of the contract between Mr and Mrs J and Business S and for 
misrepresentations made on its behalf.
Was there an actionable misrepresentation?
Mr and Mrs J set out a number of things they say they were told that turned out to be untrue. 
Mr and Mrs J said that Business E misrepresented the nature of the membership to them 
when they bought it and that they had a claim for misrepresentation under the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). I said that under s.75 CCA, GE Money could be jointly 
liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by Business E. But GE Money argued that 
any claim brought by Mr and Mrs J for any alleged misrepresentations was made too late. 
Having considered everything, I agreed. For the avoidance of doubt, I said that it wasnt my 
role to decide whether the limitation period had expired, as that would be a matter for the 
courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, I considered whether GE Money had acted 
fairly in turning down the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) MA. It was 
held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under s.2(1) 
MA is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period 
expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA).
Here Mr and Mrs J brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that,
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, I thought the limitation period for the s.75 CCA claim expired six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued was the point at which Mr and Mrs J entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that they entered into an 
agreement based, they said, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and 
suffered a loss. They said, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have 
bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the 
loan agreement with GE Money that they were bound to and would have never taken out but 
for the misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued in 
July 2004, so Mr and Mrs J had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt make a 
claim against GE Money until January 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in 
the LA. So, I thought GE Money acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim.
Could limitation be extended?The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I didnt think the time limits set out above could be  
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. PR had specifically raised s.32 LA, so I 
considered that in more detail.
S.32 LA states that in cases in which an action is based on the fraud of the defendant or a 
fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately concealed from the claimant by the 
defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud or 
concealment (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). PR advanced two 
reasons why I thought s.32 applied, so I considered each in turn.
First, PR said that the director of Business S was convicted of fraud. I saw the news reports 
that PR referred to and they showed that the conviction happened around twelve years after 
Mr and Mrs J took out their timeshare and related to a different timeshare scheme. So, on 
the face of it, I couldnt see there was anything fraudulent about Mr and Mrs Js timeshare 
agreement or why the directors later conviction was even relevant to their claim. I noted 
that, in fact, Mr J said they used it for several years before they decided to give it up due to
increasing costs and him developing a serious medical condition.
Second, PR said the misrepresentations made were fraudulent. I thought that for there to be 
a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and therefore one which GE Money 
could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA, a number of things needed to be found. There 
would need to be a false representation by the fraudster, that representation would need to 
have been made knowing it was false (or being reckless as whether it was false), the 
fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in reliance of the representation and as a 
result of that, they suffered a loss. Having read the evidence, I didnt think Mr and Mrs J had 
set out the alleged misrepresentations in sufficient detail for me to be sure what it was they 
said they were told. So, I didnt think these elements were made out.
But even if I accepted Mr and Mrs J were told, fraudulently, something to suggest they would 
be able to resell their timeshare and do so at a profit (either to Business E, Business S or a 
third party), I still didnt think s.32 LA helped them. That provision postpones the limitation 
period to start on the date a claimant discovers the fraud or could with reasonable diligence 
have discovered it. But Mr J said that they first tried to sell the timeshare in 2008 and tried 
again in 2009 without success. So I thought by the end of 2009, at the latest, Mr and Mrs J 
would have been aware (or could have been aware using reasonable diligence) that the 
representations made that the timeshare could be sold at a profit were not true. But that 
would still only give six years from then to bring any claim, which didnt happen.
Was there an actionable breach of contract?
Mr and Mrs J said that they were told they could resell their timeshare to Business E (or 
Business S) and this had been frustrated by Business E no longer trading. An action for 
frustration falls outside s.75 CCA, but I thought they may have a claim if there was a term 
that Business E (or Business S) would have bought back the timeshare and they refused.
Having looked at the documentary evidence, I didnt see any such term in the written 
agreements. I said I would have expected such a promise to have been a written term of the 
agreement, so I thought it unlikely that it was a term that Business E would have bought 
back membership.
Further, Mr and Mrs J said that they contacted Business E about it buying back the 
timeshare in early 2015. But they also said they tried to sell the timeshare by other means in 
2008 and 2009. I thought it followed that by 2008 Mr and Mrs J wanted to get rid of their 
timeshare and tried to sell it privately. But once that didnt happen, I didnt find it plausible that they didnt try to sell it back to Business E in 2008, if theyd been given a promise that 
Business E would buy it back. I found it even more unlikely that they would not use the 
buyback promise in 2009 after they unsuccessfully tried again in that year to sell it privately. 
So, on balance, I didnt think Mr and Mrs Js actions fit with them being told that Business E 
would buy back the timeshare. It followed that I didnt think GE Money needed to answer any 
claim for a breach of contract.
GE Money responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Neither 
Mr and Mrs J, nor PR, responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no party has provided me anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman