DRN-3501758
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with the proceeds of the sale 
of her property.
What happened
Mrs T says she sold her property in June 2021 and the proceeds, £390,000, should have 
been paid into her Nationwide account. She says there were a number of problems caused 
by her solicitors using incorrect information which meant the money being returned. Mrs T 
says Nationwide didnt provide her with information about where her money was which 
resulted in her making about 50 telephone calls to it. She says in summary that Nationwides 
compensation offer is not sufficient for the significant distress she was caused and for the 
impact on her health.
Nationwide accepts it could have dealt more appropriately with Mrs T and explained the 
process as well as the timescales in more detail. It accepts it made a mistake and has 
apologised. Nationwide says it has paid £150 compensation and offered a further £100 but 
says it was Mrs Ts solicitor who was responsible for the original mistakes which led to the 
money being rejected.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and also says Nationwide sent a letter to her previous 
address. Our investigator summarised in detail the background and events and thought 
Nationwide had made an appropriate compensation offer. The investigator thought 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for the solicitors mistakes but accepted it ought to have 
explained matters to Mrs T more appropriately and told her where her money was.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation isnt sufficient for 
what took place and says Nationwide shouldnt have told her to check where the money was 
with an intermediary bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision. I also make 
clear that I dont intend to repeat the background in any more detail than I have or to repeat 
the sequence of events as its well known to the parties and the investigator has done so in 
his view.
There is no question here that Mrs Ts solicitor made a number of mistakes in sending the 
money. I can see from e-mail exchanges that the solicitor has paid Mrs T compensation and 
I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for those mistakes.
The key issue for me to consider is the level of compensation caused by Nationwides failure 
to appropriately deal with Mrs T following her requests to find out where her money was. I 
have no doubt Mrs T would have been worried about the whereabouts of what I accept was 
large amount of money. And whilst I appreciate Nationwide wasnt responsible for the 
original sending mistakes, there is no question here that it ought to have been able to help 
as well as reassure Mrs T.
I accept Mrs T was caused distress and inconvenience and have no doubt she spent a 
significant amount of time trying to speak to Nationwide. I also accept that Mrs T shouldnt 
have been told to contact the intermediary bank and that Nationwide could have asked its 
relevant department where the money was and why it had been returned. But Im satisfied 
that Mrs T didnt suffer any financial loss and that she received her money within days of the 
return.
I appreciate Mrs T says she was unable to eat and that the issue caused significant impact. 
But I have to consider fairly that Nationwide wasnt responsible for the original mistakes and 
think overall that its total compensation offer of £250 is fair and reasonable and 
proportionate to the compensation paid by the solicitor. I have made clear that I dont think 
Mrs T suffered any financial loss and the main impact on her was caused by the original 
mistakes.
It is not clear if Nationwide has paid a total of £250 compensation or if it has offered a further 
£100. I will of course leave it to Mrs T to decide if she wishes to accept the full amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of a further £100. Mrs Ts acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman