DRN-2864674
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was mis-sold a loan by AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as
AvantCredit. 
What happened
Miss M took out a loan with AvantCredit in December 2016 for £3,100 over 36 months with
an APR of 49.6%. She says she was told over the phone that the loan was her cheapest
option and would improve her credit score. However, she says this was an expensive loan
due to the level of interest and she said it made her credit score worse.
AvantCredit said it took into account Miss Ms income and expenses shed listed on her
application form along with the information showing on her credit file and based on this it
concluded the loan was affordable. It also pointed out that Miss M had made all her
payments on time and shed repaid the loan early.
Miss M has said her loan was expensive and made her credit score worse which links in to
whether or not the loan was affordable for her. Avant Credit also took this into account when
it issued the final response it did. So our investigator also considered this during his
investigation of the complaint. He felt the lending was affordable based on all the information
he had and couldnt see this loan had affected Miss Ms credit score in the way that she had
said. Our investigator found no evidence shed called up to take out the loan so he didnt
think shed been told over the phone that this was her cheapest option. So, he didnt uphold
Miss Ms complaint
Miss M disagreed. She said the loan had made her credit score worse. She provided a
screenshot showing her credit score was 358 in December 2016 and in July 2017 this had
decreased to 291. She said she was told the loan was the best way for her to consolidate
her debt but it was the most expensive option and she shouldve gone down another route.
As Miss M was unhappy, she asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision on 20 May 2021 upholding the complaint. Ive included an extract of that 
decision below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached a different
outcome to our investigator and my provisional decision sets out why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the lending was affordable, and that the loan payments could be sustainably repaid.
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the
lending decision was fair. But if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I
need to consider whether its more likely than not that the loan wouldve been approved if
sufficient checks had taken place.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application.
AvantCredit has provided us with the income and expenditure details they obtained along
with the information Miss M provided to them at the time of the application. AvantCredit also
provided us with their affordability report, all of which Ive taken into consideration along with
what Miss M has told our service and the information that she has provided.
AvantCredit have said Miss Ms income was approximately £1,650 and shed listed her
outgoings as around £500. They said her credit file showed she had a monthly credit
obligation of £449 so they were satisfied she could meet the monthly loan repayments which
were approximately £150.
However, Miss M had a number of debts which were outstanding prior to taking her loan with
AvantCredit. I think this should have prompted AvantCredit to review Miss Ms loan
application more carefully, and had it done so, they would have realised the lending they
were providing was unaffordable.
The overall summary showed her total indebtedness was over £27,000 which was in excess
of Miss Ms gross annual salary which was just over £24,000. The balance to limit ratio
(revolving credit/budget) was listed at 99%.
Having looked at the information from Miss Ms credit file I can see she had three credit
cards, the largest limit was £11,700. At the time of the application her balance was just
below the limit. She paid variable amounts towards this account, but between April 2016 and
October 2016 she paid approximately on average £580 per month.
She had a credit card with a limit of £4,000 and a balance of £3,915 which seems to have
received payments between £89 and £96 per month. The third credit card had a limit of
£1,100 and the balance was just below this. Miss M paid various amounts to for example in
September 2016 she paid £118 and in October 2016 she paid £16.
She also had an unsecured loan with a balance of just over £4,500 and the information on
the credit file states this account received a regular payment of £188 each month. Miss M
had a further loan which had a balance of just over £5,500. Her credit file says she made
regular payments of £222 towards this account. Lastly, she had a current account which had
a limit of £800 although the limit was reduced to £450 in November 2016.
Based on the credit file information AvantCredit had it ought to have been apparent that the
payments Miss M was making towards her accounts was in excess of the expenditure
AvantCredit used in the application. So it should have been apparent that Miss Ms
expenditure was significantly more than what had been declared. Miss M had listed her
outgoings as £500 and I note her monthly income was £1,650. So based on this information
it seems to me that she probably would have struggled to pay her loan in addition to all of
her other commitments.
The affordability report also flagged that as well as being at 99% of her combined limits on
her revolving credit accounts, Miss M had also opened seven accounts in the last six
months. It also shows five balance increases in the last three months which has been
flagged as red. Having looked at Miss Ms account history I can see in the run up to the loan
there were numerous other lending including advances against her income and unsecured
loans. And I also note the loan of £5,500 was taken out only one month prior to the lending
provided by AvantCredit. So I think this should have alerted AvantCredit that Miss M may
have been struggling and that she was in a cycle of debt.Even though Miss M had managed to keep her accounts in order and didnt have any
defaults on her file, I think the information showed Miss M was relying on short term credit
and utilising credit cards to meet her expenses which would suggest it was unlikely Miss M
would be able to sustainably repay the lending AvantCredit provided.
I also recognise the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation, and so Miss M may have
been due to repay some of her existing debts with this new loan. Although there isnt any
indication which of these debts shed be clearing and she wouldve still had a considerable
amount of debt outstanding despite this. Furthermore, the credit file information AvantCredit
had suggested Miss M had a history of taking further credit and increasing her indebtedness
and there was a significant risk of the funds not being used to consolidate existing credit.
In any event, even if Miss Ms existing credit obligation reduced slightly, I still dont think it
would have made the loan from AvantCredit affordable. Having looked at her current
account statements, it seems her payments plus her monthly outgoings were very close to 
or in excess of her monthly income.
Taking everything into account, I feel that the information available to AvantCredit at the time
of the loan application showed the loan wasnt affordable to Miss M and therefore they
shouldnt have agreed it. For this reason, I am upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M has also said the loan made her credit score worse and provided two screenshots to
evidence this. The screenshots show in December 2016 her credit score was 358 but in July
2017 this had dropped to 291.
Whilst I havent seen a full copy of Miss Ms credit file since the loan was taken, I can see
that on the July 2017 screenshot there are entries stating pay day or short term loan added
which suggests Miss M may have taken out other loans since the loan was provided by
AvantCredit in December 2016. And based on her credit file, it does seem Miss M was
already in a cycle of debt. So I dont have enough here to agree that the loan with
AvantCredit was the main reason Miss Ms credit score reduced.
Based on the customer notes, it seems Miss M contacted AvantCredit in May 2017 to
explain shed been in touch with a company who had drawn up an Individual Voluntary
Arrangement (IVA). She went on to explain shed overstretched herself financially and had to
borrow money from family each month. This was only five months after taking the loan with
AvantCredit and I believe it further evidences the difficulties that Miss M found herself in.
Miss M says she was told over the phone that this loan was the cheapest option. Having
looked at the internal notes provided by AvantCredit, I cant see that a telephone
conversation took place prior to or around the time of her application. AvantCredit has said
they no longer hold any telephone recordings between themselves and Miss M as its
beyond their retention. I dont think this is unreasonable given the loan was taken over three
years ago.
In addition to this AvantCredit has said they dont provide advice and I havent seen anything
to suggest that they did provide advice to Miss M prior to her loan application. AvantCredit
might have told Miss M this was the cheapest option it could provide. But I dont think that it
was in a position to say how much any lending Miss M might be able to get elsewhere might
cost. So I dont think that Miss M was told this was the best way to deal with her existing
indebtedness, although, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the loan was
affordable. Therefore I think AvantCredit need to put this right.
My provisional decisionTo put things right, AvantCredit Of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit should:
a) add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, fees and
charges on the loan.
b) calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Miss M which were
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Miss M originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. then refund the amounts calculated in
a) and b)
c) remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
Miss M replied to say that she accepted the provisional decision. AvantCredit replied to say 
they will be refunding all interest and charges plus an additional 8% statutory interest and 
removing all negative information from Miss Ms credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to submit, my final decision remains the same for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, AvantCredit Of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit should:
a) add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, fees and
charges on the loan.
b) calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Miss M which were
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Miss M originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. then refund the amounts calculated in
a) and b)
c) remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AvantCredit Of UK, LLC trading as 
AvantCredit should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman