DRN-4314821
The complaint
Mr S complains that performance data provided by Quilter Cheviot Limited (Quilter) since
2010 has been incorrect. Mr S said hed suffered a financial loss as his pension value was 
too low, based on Quilters performance figures.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 11 July 2023. In the main I didnt uphold the complaint. But 
I did agree there were some shortcomings on Quilters part, which had caused confusion 
and a loss of expectation, and some delay. I thought a payment of £750 for distress and 
inconvenience was appropriate. Ive recapped here the background and my provisional 
findings. 
In 2010, on advice from his independent financial adviser (IFA), Mr S transferred two 
existing pension arrangements into a SIPP (self invested personal pension). Of the total of
£1,045,161.37 paid into the SIPP, £1,035,000 was transferred to Quilter as a Discretionary
Fund Manager (DFM).
Statements and investment summaries were sent twice a year. These illustrated fund
movements, charges deducted, gave updated values and showed the performance of the
pension fund in comparison to various benchmarks. Mr Ss complaint centres on the
information given as to how his portfolio was doing  the total return  compared to the
benchmarks used.
In early 2020 Mr S raised some queries about charges. There were email exchanges
between Mr S and his investment manager. In an email sent on 3 March 2020 Mr S said the
way his funds were being invested was seriously disappointing. The investment manager
replied, saying, amongst other things, no inducements, commissions or other benefits were
paid and that Quilter only invested in the funds it felt offered the best performance. The
investment manager asked why Mr S was disappointed when the previous year the portfolio
had returned 20.7% gross and 19.6% net. In reply, Mr S referred to the charges for some of
the funds and asked for details of how his portfolio had performed since inception against
the agreed benchmark, the costs hed paid to Quilter and the total expense ratio.
The investment manager replied saying he didnt think the fund costs Mr S had quoted were
correct and he explained why. He also said portfolio performance to the last valuation point
was 135.5% versus the benchmark of 121.4%. Over the last ten years Mr S had paid
£136,577 to Quilter in fees and the value of his portfolio had increased by approximately
£1,100,000. Mr S replied the following day, suggesting maybe meeting next time he was in
the UK, probably the following month. Mr S also mentioned that he was looking to transfer
his fund to a QROPS (Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme). Further emails 
were exchanged on 4 March 2020 about how the figures the investment manager had
quoted were calculated. Mr S also queried if Quilter could offer a reduced fee arrangement
and if he shouldve been charged VAT. The investment manager said fees could be reduced
by about £1,100 pa and that VAT had been correctly charged.
Ive seen there was further email correspondence later in 2020. In an email sent on 22
October 2020 Mr S queried performance figures that had been given in an email on 4 March
2020 from the investment manager. In reply, the investment manager maintained that Mr Ss
portfolio had performed very well over the last ten or so years and querying if Mr Ss figures
took into account other fees paid  to his IFA, the SIPP provider and in connection with the
transfer to a QROPS which was by then I think underway. In reply Mr S said, taking other
fees into account, he still thought there was a gap between the returns Quilter said hed had
and the actual value of his fund.
Things culminated in Mr Ss email on 6 December 2020. He enclosed a spreadsheet
showing his portfolio had returned 99.22% against the benchmark return of 116.60%, a
difference of £179,967.12. He said the information hed received from Quilter had indicated
his portfolio had outperformed the benchmark which wasnt the case. Mr S asked how hed
be compensated for the £179,967.12 difference which he described as missing from his
portfolio. Mr Ss investment manager replied the following day, saying hed forwarded Mr Ss
email and spreadsheet to Quilters complaints department.
Quilter issued their first response on 11 December 2020. That didnt resolve Mr Ss concerns
and he replied to Quilter on 14 December 2020 saying, if the percentage returns Quilter had
stated were correct, his pension should be around £170,000 to £190,000 larger than it was.
Quilter issued a follow up response on 4 February 2021, repeating that the reporting was
accurate and not upholding the complaint. Mr S referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. In summary he
said:
No funds were missing from Mr Ss pension. The funds appeared to have been
managed in a way which was in line with the agreed mandate. There were no
underlying guarantees. So the value of Mr Ss pension was correct.
Mr S had produced and supplied to Quilter a detailed spreadsheet which collated
information from his statements and showed where Mr S thought Quilter had made
errors in reporting returns. Mr S believed thered been a mix up between net and
gross returns from 2020 to 2017.
Quilter had reiterated that the quoted returns were correct and taken from their main
client reporting system, used for all clients. And a time weighted return method of
calculating returns to account for money in and out flows was used. Mr S didnt
consider that satisfactory as thered been no such movements between 2020 and
2017.
It wasnt part of the investigators role to undertake some form of audit on Quilters IT
reporting systems. Quilter was required to provide statements and take reasonable
steps to ensure their accuracy.
The investigator accepted there was disagreement about the accuracy of the portfolio
return percentages quoted by Quilter. The investigator considered the hypothetical
scenario  that is if (and which Quilter hadnt accepted was the case) Quilters
performance percentages were incorrect and the percentages were as per Mr Ss
spreadsheet, that wouldve changed things.
Mr S had said, if hed been aware that the benchmark wasnt being beaten, hed
have made alternative investment decisions to try to seek better performance
elsewhere and limit Quilters fees. But, looking at the statements issued to Mr S from 
2010 to 2020 of the 28 updates, 14 highlighted the fact that Quilters management
had underperformed the benchmark. Statements as early as 2011 confirmed the
returns were below those of the benchmark.
It mightve been that the underperformance wouldve been more pronounced and a
greater gap may have prompted a different reaction from Mr S. The investigator
couldnt know exactly wouldve happened, had Mr S been given different informationover a ten year period. So hed need to decide, on the balance of probability in
conjunction with the evidence available, what was most likely to have happened.
There was documentary evidence showing Mr S had been told numerous times that
Quilters returns were below the benchmark. Mr S hadnt questioned that or chosen
to make alternative investments. The investigator didnt think it was reasonable to
conclude that Mr S wouldve made different investment decisions.
Mr S had said that individual statements didnt raise any concerns and it was only the
cumulative impact of the perceived errors over a ten year period which had
highlighted the issue. The investigator considered that supported the point, if Mr S
had been given marginally different percentages over time, he wouldnt have acted
differently. He still wouldnt have been able to see the cumulative impact, simply
marginally different percentages on each statement. And the actual value of his
pension wouldve remained the same.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said Quilter hadnt seen the detailed analysis
produced by Mr Ss adviser (who wasnt the IFA whod recommended Quilter as DFM). Mr S
had now forwarded that and raised some specific queries with Quilter. Mr S said he was
hopeful that might lead Quilter to come to a different conclusion and that hed be able to
resolve his dispute without this services further involvement.
Mr S requested Quilters further comments on 1 August 2022 and he chased several times.
Quilter said on 16 August 2022 that it was reviewing the information and on 2 September
2022, following further reminders from Mr S, that the calculations he required had been
requested. A similar answer was given on 22 September 2022. Quilter told Mr S on 12
October 2022 that he should get a response by the end of that week. Ive seen a letter dated
13 October 2022. Mr S says he didnt get it until 28 October 2022. That seems consistent
with the emails Ive seen - on 14 October 2022 Quilter said the calculations had been
received and were being reviewed. By 21 October 2022 the data hadnt been finalised. So I
think Quilters response, although dated 13 October 2022, wasnt sent until 28 October 2022.
Mr S didnt think Quilter had provided the details requested. He included in his reply on 2
November 2022 a schedule of questions with space for Quilters responses. After further
prompting by Mr S, Quilter emailed him on 9 November 2022. Quilter said it had previously
sought to address the requests for further information but as the complaint (a continuation of
the complaint which had already been made, not a new complaint) was now being reviewed
by an ombudsman, and as Quilter had already provided its final response, Quilter wouldnt
be responding to further requests for information. Quilter would continue to cooperate fully
with this service if any further information was required in order to reach a final decision.
Mr S asked us to contact Quilter for the information hed requested and we asked Quilter to
provide the information. In January 2023 Quilter told us that theyd explained to Mr S that, as
a final response had been issued, Quilter wasnt in a position to add anything. We explained
the position to Mr S and that it would be up to the ombudsman who reviewed the complaint
to decide if anything further was needed. Mr S said he was getting a solicitor to review his
case and he asked for more time to supply information.
Mr S then instructed a representative who has made extensive further comments. Ive read
and considered everything and the documents referred to carefully. But Im not going to
attempt to summarise all thats been said.
Mr Ss representative referred, amongst other things, to COBS (Conduct of Business
Sourcebook) rule 4.2 about fair, clear and not misleading communications; the Fraud Act
2006; information on the statements issued to Mr S between 2010 and 2016 and from 2016
onwards; what Quilter had said about the reporting system it had used up to 2016 and
changes introduced then; and how Quilter had dealt with Mr Ss complaint, including therequest for further information following the investigators view.
Mr Ss representative was also critical of the way wed handled Mr Ss complaint and said
that, based on what the investigator had said, Mr S had suffered losses caused by Quilters
breaches of duty over the years. Mr Ss representative highlighted some of the key points
made by the investigator and which werent accepted.
Mr Ss representative said a fair award would be in respect of charges levied by Quilter from
2010 to the date Mr S had transferred away from Quilter. Fees paid to Quilter from 1 April
2010 to 30 September 2020 totalled £176,096.17. Fees charged from 1 October 2020 to 31
December 2020 were a further £5,902.34 which made £181,998.51 in all. Interest of
£152,978.47 was also claimed the total was £334,976.98.
Mr Ss representative suggested that Mr Ss complaint be split into three with the award for
each capped at £160,000. Mr S had mitigated his losses  hed incurred other costs for
which he wasnt seeking an award and he was claiming interest only up to December 2020
(and not May 2023). And hed narrowed the complaints to three rather than up to ten
possible complaints (on the basis that each statement given to Mr S that was fraudulent
and/or unfair, unclear and misleading could be treated as an individual source of complaint).
Well share what was said with Quilter. A large number of appendices were attached. But I
think Quilter has seen those already so we wont forward them again. If theres anything
which is mentioned and which Quilter hasnt seen, Quilter should let us know in response to
this provisional decision so we can provide copies.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive concentrated on the submission from Mr Ss representative. Im not going to deal with
each and every point, just what I see as key.
Unfortunately Im unable to agree with most of the arguments put forward on Mr Ss behalf.
In particular Im not persuaded by the central allegation of fraud. Thats a very serious matter
that would usually be dealt with by a court and typically would involve detailed pleadings and
a large amount of evidence. Thats especially the case when the allegations span a ten year
period. I recognise that the burden of proof in civil fraud is the balance of probabilities and
not beyond reasonable doubt as for criminal fraud cases. But fraud by false representation
involves proving dishonesty. I dont think whats been said shows how the two limb test for
dishonesty has been met. I think it would require very significant further evidence, probably
including multiple individual testimonies as to actual knowledge and belief at various points
over a ten year period to establish what is essentially a mental state, albeit a corporate one.
But, in any event, I dont see that the allegation of fraud adds much, aside from perhaps to
underline the seriousness of the complaint. I think I can consider the complaint fairly and
fully on the central basis of COBS 4.2 and the duty to ensure communications are fair, clear
and not misleading and taking into account legal principles such as contractual duties and
mis representation and which are generally easier to establish than fraud.
Id also point out that we deal with individual complaints. Mr Ss representative suggests the
issues Mr S has raised will affect all of Quilters clients and points to what Quilter said on 4
February 2021  that the performance data being quoted was from its main client reporting
system and consistent with the performance reported on for all Quilters clients. I accept that
the matters Mr S has raised may affect Quilters other clients. But Ive just considered theissues raised in the context of Mr Ss case. And, in the main Im not upholding the complaint
or at least not on the basis put forward on behalf of Mr S. Its a matter for Mr S if he wishes
to raise any concerns with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I accept that Mr S was a retail client and Ive considered the complaint, including Mr Ss
reliance on information from Quilter and what hed have understood from what was provided,
from that perspective. And that under COBS 4.2.2R Quilter needed, in communicating with
Mr S, to take into account his status as a retail client. I further accept whats been said about
the basis on which Quilter was selected as the DFM and which included competitive charges
(1.25% pa) and Quilters monitoring and reporting services.
I note whats been said about the first statement that was issued being misleading as a loss
of £53,000 during the six month period wasnt shown prominently. But I dont think thats
representative of Mr Ss concerns and why hes brought this complaint which centre on the
total return figure for the portfolio shown on the statements and whats been said about how
thats been calculated. So Ive concentrated on that aspect.
Quilters reporting to Mr S took the form of bi annual statements. Mr Ss representative has
drawn a distinction between statements issued between 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2016
and those issued after that date when Quilter had merged with Cheviot Asset Management.
From what Quilter said in its letter of 13 October 2022, prior to the merger, Quilter had been
using the Fiscal/Quarrier system where performance reporting was calculated on a gross of
management fee basis. After the merger Quilter moved to a new system, Figaro, where
performance reporting was on a net of management fees basis. But in that letter Quilter also
said, although Mr Ss account migrated in July 2016 which meant performance figures after
then were reported on a net of fees basis, where migrated clients only had historic gross of
fee performance figures, Quilter ran a client report that covered a period including migrated
data and the new system would automatically produce a gross of fee return on the client
report.
And the letter also referred to the investment report for the period in question (31 March
2010 to 30 September 2020) and which confirmed that, saying, at the end:
Performance: Calculations are made on a daily basis adjusted for cash and asset
flows, then compounded as necessary to provide returns for longer periods. Figures are
presented on a capital and total return basis, net of Quilter Cheviot management fees
and other expenses or taxes (including underlying fund charges) subtracted from the
portfolio subject to the necessary data being available. For longer request periods (or
where the requested time frame includes dates prior to May 2017) the relevant
historic detail may not be held, in which case returns are quoted on a Total Return
basis only, and gross of Quilter Cheviot management fees. Further information can
be provided by your investment manager on request.
Mr Ss representatives point is that Quilter has confirmed (after the event) that the total
return performance figures for Mr Ss portfolio were calculated gross of management fees.
But Mr Ss representative says the statements Mr S got over the years indicated otherwise 
that the total return shown was net of management fees. That would mean the portfolio
performance figures against the benchmark were over inflated. So, from the only information 
Mr S had about performance, hed have thought his portfolio was doing better than was
actually the case.
As I understand it, Mr Ss representatives point rests on the inclusion in the pre 2016
statements (see, for example, the investment summary for the period 1 July 2013 to 31
December 2013) of the following explanation: Total Return is calculated on a daily basis andequals capital movement plus income receivable in the portfolios based currency. All
transactions plus cash/stock additions and withdrawals are taken into account. And from
that Mr S wouldve understood that the total return was calculated net of Quilters fees, which
Quilter is now saying wasnt the case.
But I dont think the statement quoted must mean the total return is calculated after
deduction of management fees. I think its somewhat unclear. On the one hand, saying that
all transactions and withdrawals are taken into account, could be construed as meaning that
fees had been deducted so the total return shown is on a net of charges basis. But, on the
other hand, Im not sure that charges would necessarily be termed a transaction or a
withdrawal as such. I think charges might be considered as something separate and outside
what would normally be termed a transaction (such as the sale and purchase of stock
although that might include units cancelled to meet charges) or a withdrawal (such as the
payment of funds to the investor). In my view, what was said isnt entirely clear.
I know thats Mr Ss point  that the information he was given had to be fair, clear and not
misleading. But much of whats been argued is on the basis that the statements Mr S got
said that the total return was calculated net of charges and which Quilter is now saying
wasnt the case and so Mr S was misled. But as Ive explained, I dont agree the statements
definitely said that. I also note that Quilters fees were shown on the statements in money
terms. And, if Mr S had been in any doubt as to the precise basis on which the total return
for his portfolio had been calculated, he couldve queried it and specifically if it was net or
gross of management fees. On balance, although I think clearer information couldve been
given as to exactly how the total return had been calculated and if fees had been taken into
account, I dont think the allegation that the statements said something which is necessarily
inconsistent with what Quilter is now saying has been made out.
Turning now to the statements issued after the new reporting system had been introduced,
Mr Ss representative says there was no mention of how growth is calculated. And, as Mr S
had been told during the previous six years that the total return was net of management
fees, he had no reason, especially as a retail client, to continue construing the information
other than as hed done previously. But, and as Ive explained, I dont think the position up
until then had been as obvious as has been suggested. So Im not persuaded that going
forwards Mr Ss belief that the total return was after deduction of Quilters management fees
was necessarily justified. But, if as has been claimed, the statements didnt indicate how the
total return had actually been calculated, then again I think Quilter couldve given clearer
information.
Mr Ss representative has suggested that the reason for the change to the reporting system
in 2016 was because following the amalgamation it was recognised that the previous
reporting had been flawed. And that, going forwards and commencing with the statement for
the period 1 July 2016 to 31 December 2016, a new disclaimer was included:
We shall not be liable to you, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), for breach of
statutory duty, or otherwise, in provision of our tax information and valuations for (a) loss of
profits (b) loss of sales or business (c) loss of agreements and contracts (d) loss of
anticipated savings (e) loss of or damage to goodwill; or (f) any indirect or consequential
loss. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this paragraph shall limit or exclude: (1) any 
liability for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; or (2) any duties or liabilities imposed on us
under the FSMA 2000 or any other applicable regulatory system.
I havent investigated what may have been behind the change to the reporting system and/or
the inclusion of the disclaimer. I dont think anything turns on it. The issue remains whether if
the statements provided to Mr S, whether when the original reporting system was being used
or the new system introduced following the merger, were fair, clear and not misleading. Ifthey werent I dont think Quilter can escape liability by pointing to a disclaimer. And one
which doesnt seek to limit or exclude liability for Quilters regulatory responsibilities (which
Quilter would be unable to do in any event). Ive already explained why I think the
statements both before and after the merger couldve been clearer. Ive dealt below with
what I think the consequences of that was for Mr S.
Mr Ss representative has also referred to alleged failings by Quilter in dealing with Mr Ss
complaint. Including that Mr S had made a written expression of dissatisfaction in March
2020 but he didnt receive a final response until December 2020.
The Handbook glossary definition of a complaint is:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims
management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress
or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom
that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or
products or claims management services, which comes under the jurisdiction of
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In his email sent on 3 March 2020 Mr S said the way his funds were being invested was
seriously disappointing. I agree thats an expression of dissatisfaction. But, although the
fact that Mr S had suffered (and was continuing to suffer) a financial loss may have been
implicit, that allegation wasnt expressly made. So I dont think the email amounted to a
complaint as defined. On that basis I dont think Quilter was obliged to treat is as such,
including issuing a final response within the eight week period specified by the regulations.
In saying that Ive considered the email not just in isolation but as part of the overall
exchanges that followed on 4 March 2020 and later that month. It appears that Mr S may
have been, for the time being at least, satisfied by the investment managers responses. The
possibility of a meeting to discuss things further was mentioned but it seems that didnt go
ahead. The discussions seem to have finished with Mr Ss email thanking the investment
manager for the clarification and moving on to a query about which QROPS Quilter had
dealings with and how Mr Ss fees could be reduced. I think the discussions fall in to the
area where a customer raises a query or concern without it amounting to a complaint as
such.
From what Ive seen Mr S raised performance again in October 2020 when he revisited what
the investment manager had said in March 2020. I dont think its the case that Quilter failed
to treat Mr Ss earlier expressed concerns as a complaint. Once Quilter knew Mr Ss
dissatisfaction had resurfaced and that he was alleging a financial loss and so making a
complaint as defined, Quilter treated it as such.
When Mr Ss complaint was rejected by the investigator Mr S then sought further information
from Quilter. That included sharing with Quilter the report Mr Ss adviser had prepared about
Quilter reporting a gross return as a net return from 2020 to 2017. I think our investigator 
wrongly thought that report had already been shared. I note the number of reminders
(according to Mr Ss representative there were eight) which Mr S sent to Quilter. And that it
took three months for Quilter to reply  its letter of 13 October 2022 (which Mr S didnt
receive until 28 October 2022). And that Quilter didnt respond to the questions Mr S had
raised. Quilter then replied again on 9 November 2022 requesting that any specific questions
be directed to this service.I think the situation was relatively unusual. A complainant wont usually contact a business
direct once a complaint is with this service to request further information, particularly after
the investigators view has been issued. Im not saying Mr S shouldnt have done that. It
seems at that stage he was hoping that by sharing his advisers report he might be able to
get Quilter to change its stance and be prepared to settle the matter with him without this
services further involvement. But I can understand if there was perhaps some uncertainty on
Quilters part as how to deal with the request. But, that said, I think Quilter did delay in
dealing with Mr Ss request  Im not sure why it took some three months to respond and
despite Mr Ss frequent prompts. And, if Quilter didnt want to provide the information
because it concerned Mr Ss existing complaint and the request hadnt come from this
service, Quilter couldve said that straight away.
As things were, the complaint was awaiting an ombudsmans decision, so we didnt evaluate
whether the further information was required or not. We said when the complaint was
considered by the ombudsman theyd request any further information needed. That meant
that we didnt say that Quilter should provide the details Mr S had requested. So I dont
agree the situation is similar to a court case where the judge has ordered further information
to be produced and that a failure to do so would be contempt of court.
Turning now to the view issued by our investigator, Mr Ss representative has said that there
was a failure to take into account a number of factors. Ive come to my conclusions bearing
in mind those matters, including that Quilter was the only source of reporting for Mr S;
Quilters reputation for monitoring was a key prerequisite for selecting Quilter as the DFM;
that Mr S had to instruct an expert to identify that there were issues in how Quilter was
reporting to Mr S, on the statements issued to him, performance of his portfolio against the
benchmarks indicated.
Mr Ss representative takes issue with a number of key points made by the investigator. I
dont propose to comment on everything but I agree that the fact that Quilter used a
computerised reporting system for performance data isnt particularly relevant  the
complaint turns on what information was given to Mr S and if  regardless of how it was
generated  it was accurate, fair, clear and not misleading. But, on the other hand, a large
number of performance statistics have been quoted, both by Quilter and Mr S. It isnt
possible for us to assess or attempt to reconcile those figures. But Ive looked into what I
consider is the key aspect  that is the basis on which performance was reported to Mr S.
I think the point made by the investigator about the 28 updates given and that 14 of them
highlighted that Mr Ss portfolio under Quilters management had underperformed the
benchmark is relevant. Even if there was some deficiency in the information provided by
Quilter which meant it wasnt easy for Mr S to ascertain by exactly how much the portfolios
returns may have been below the benchmark, that still suggests that for Mr S exceeding or
even matching the benchmark wasnt conclusive in terms of how he viewed how his portfolio
was performing. So it seems that data wasnt instrumental in Mr Ss decisions about whether
he made any changes to his portfolio. He had the actual values for his portfolio and that
seems to me to have been what hed have considered and relied on in deciding whether to
instruct any changes to his investments. 
That brings me to Mr Ss representatives point about the investigator having said he needed
to know exactly what Mr S wouldve done had he been given different information. I dont
agree thats the approach the investigator took. He acknowledged he couldnt say exactly
what Mr S wouldve done. But he went on to say hed need to decide, on the balance of
probability and in conjunction with the evidence available, what was most likely to have
happened. I think thats correct. Ive said that the performance data was unclear as to
whether the total return was net or gross of charges. But, even if that impacted on how Mr S
viewed how his portfolio was doing, I dont think, if things had been made clearer, it wouldlikely have prompted him to make changes to his portfolio and the underlying investments.
Nor is redress now being claimed on that basis. As Mr Ss representative has said, Mr S isnt
asserting that the portfolio was unsuitable. And theres no glaringly obvious point when, if
Mr S had been given correct information over the ten year period, a change in the portfolio
wouldve been triggered. Mr S is instead seeking redress based on the fees hes paid. His
position is that throughout and from the outset he didnt get the service he was paying for.
He couldnt mitigate his position as to fees as it wasnt until 2022 when Quilter admitted that
the reporting information hed been given had been inaccurate. So Mr S couldnt move away
to a DFM which was delivering the service for which Mr Ss IFA had recommended Quilter in
2010. Nor could Mr S move to a QROPS earlier, which is exactly what he did when he
discovered the true position.
Ive borne all that in mind but I dont agree that Mr Ss claim for a return of all the fees hes
paid Quilter over the ten year period is justified. Particularly as I wasnt able to agree with the
key point and on which much of Mr Ss claim is based. And Quilter was managing Mr Ss
portfolio and undertaking other services as DFM. Although reporting to Mr S was an
important part of the service Quilter was providing, it wasnt the only aspect.
I also bear in mind that the returns for Mr Ss portfolio appear to have been relatively healthy
even if Mr S now thinks it shouldve been more based on what he considers wouldve been a
proper comparison with the benchmark. But I dont see that as a financial loss as such. I
think its more disappointment or a loss of expectation. Throughout the period Mr S has
known exactly how his portfolio has been performing and what costs hes paid to Quilter in
money terms. As Ive indicated, I agree with the investigator that, given the instances of
underperformance, its difficult to see that Mr S wouldve acted differently if hed thought the
position was worse in that there was more of a gap between the portfolio and the
benchmark.
I note what Mr Ss representative has said about the complaint being split into three (a
reduction from the ten or so that was also suggested) but I dont agree. Mr S complains that
Quilter failed to report accurately the performance of his portfolio over a ten year period.
Thats one complaint and weve treated it as such. I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable and other than an attempt to circumvent our awards limit to split the complaint at
this stage. But, in any event, much of that falls away given the view Ive taken of the
complaint and the award for compensation I consider is appropriate.
To sum up, I agree there were some shortcomings on Quilters part. Specifically I think how
the total return figures for the portfolio had been calculated couldve been made clearer
throughout. I think thats caused confusion and some loss of expectation. And there was
some delay on Quilters part in dealing with Mr Ss further enquiries after the investigator had
issued his view. I recognise the position was somewhat unusual but I think Quilter couldve
got back to Mr S quicker and saved him the inconvenience of having to chase for responses,
especially if Quilters eventual view was that any further information requests should be
made via this service.
I think a payment in respect of distress and inconvenience is warranted. Ive taken into
account the overall time period  some ten years or so  over which the position as to how
the total return figure had been calculated wasnt as clear as it couldve been and the
confusion thats resulted. I think a payment of £750 would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
I know thats way short of what Mr S has claimed. I can see that hes expended much time,
effort and incurred expense in trying to get Quilter to accept that his portfolio hasnt
performed as he was led to expect and that he should be paid very substantialcompensation. But I hope Ive been able to explain why I dont consider I can uphold his
complaint to the extent and on the basis thats been suggested.
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint in part only. Quilter Cheviot Limited must pay Mr S £750 for the
distress and inconvenience caused by the service failings Ive identified above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Quilter agreed with what Id said about the serious allegations (of fraud and misleading 
clients) not being substantiated but was disappointed Id partially upheld the complaint and 
proposed an award. But Quilter was prepared to accept my provisional decision in the 
interests of bringing matters to a close for both parties. 
Mr Ss representatives response to my provisional decision focused on what Id said about 
the pre and post 2016 reporting  essentially that it couldve been clearer  and what 
conclusions should flow from that, taking into account the legal and regulatory position and 
in particular COBS 4.2.1R. In summary: 
The regulators Principles for Businesses (Principles 7 (Communications with clients) 
and 9 (Customer relationship of trust) are particularly relevant) are enshrined in rules 
in the FCA Handbook and create binding obligations on firms, the contravention of 
which may lead to enforcement action and a claim for damages. Under COBS Sch 5 
(Rights of action for damages) a breach of a rule against a private person (such as 
Mr S) is actionable under section 138D of FSMA 2000. GEN (General Provisions) 
2.2.1R says that every provision in the Handbook must be interpreted in the light of 
its purpose. 
COBS 4.2.1R says a firm must ensure that a communication or financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading. COBS 4.5.2R (4) says a firm must ensure that 
information does not disguise, diminish or obscure important items, statements or 
warnings. Id agreed thered been several breaches of COBS 4.2.1R. And that the 
lack of clarity had caused confusion. Id been unable to say a specific loss flowed 
from the breaches so the only remedy was a payment for distress and 
inconvenience. But Id said Mr S had suffered some loss, albeit of expectation. It was 
because he wasnt complaining about the performance of his portfolio or its suitability 
that the remedy he was seeking was appropriate. 
Id referred to two core strands of duties that Quilter were supposed to deliver from 
2010 to 2021  investment management of Mr Ss entire and only pension portfolio 
and reporting to him about the investment of that portfolio. Thered been a lack of 
reporting clarity for over a decade. During that time 32 investment reports had been 
issued, none of which included cumulative performance. Once that information was 
issued, Mr S was able to see that the reporting was at best confusing and therefore, 
as Id agreed, misleading. He shouldnt have had to instruct two experts to analyse 
the information and make a complaint. 
Mr S had paid to have his pension portfolio managed in one place and for accurate 
and timely reporting on that portfolio. He received one service but not the other. 
Following my own reasoning, his losses can fairly and reasonably be identified as an 
appropriate percentage of the fees that were paid for the services Quilter was 
supposed to provide and didnt. It was fair to deprive Quilter of 50% of the charges 
that Mr S had paid, for failing to provide that service properly or at all. 
Quilters shortcomings extended to the absence of cumulative reporting over the 
period, without which Mr S was essentially blind to the scale of the issue and it wasnt 
possible for his case to have been pleaded with sufficient clarity for any of his claims to be upheld. That information wasnt given until 2022 by which time Mr S had 
already instructed his IFA and thereafter his current representative. It was fair and 
reasonable for Mr S to recover those fees. His total claim was £175,000 made up of 
fees paid to Quilter, interest and his IFAs and representatives fees.  
Mr S also provided a statement setting out his key allegations of misstatement by reference 
to what Quilter had said in various communications: the final response dated 11 December 
2020; the subsequent response dated 4 February 2021; Quilters letter of 13 October 2022; 
and the investment report for the period 1 April 2010 to 30 September 2020. Mr S said there 
were further instances where the information given wasnt fair, clear and not misleading.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S and his representative have said in response to my 
provisional decision. But I havent been persuaded to depart from the views I reached 
earlier. Ive set those out in full above and they form part of this decision. Ive made some 
additional comments on the main points raised. 
Mr S is seeking confirmation that well raise an issue under the Wider Implications 
Framework on the basis that Ive recognised the statements issued by Quilter (both pre and 
post 2016) couldve been, in some respects, clearer. So theres a possibility that other clients 
may have found that too. 
But I dont think that of itself brings the issue within the scope of the Wider Implications 
Framework. We often deal with complaints which raise issues which might potentially affect 
other clients of the respondent business. That might be where, as here, theres a dispute as 
to whether information provided has been accurate. Or we might have to interpret 
contractual terms and conditions which apply to other customers too. If we received several 
similar complaints wed consider if there was a Wider Implications issue. And, in some 
cases, a single complaint might be sufficient to trigger that. But I dont think thats the 
situation here and so I dont propose raising the matter under the Wider Implications 
Framework. 
Mr Ss representative agrees that the complaint can fairly and reasonably be dealt with on 
the basis of COBS and legal principles, including contractual duties and misrepresentation. I 
agree that Mr S was a retail client and that under COBS 4.2R Quilter owed him a duty to 
ensure that all communications issued to him about the funds Quilter managed on his behalf 
(and which were Mr Ss only pension provision) were fair, clear and not misleading. At the 
time, Mr S had no IFA in place to assist him in analysing the information which Quilter 
provided direct to him. I also acknowledge that Quilter had been selected, not only for its 
competitive charges, but for its monitoring and reporting services. 
Mr Ss representative says that certain conclusions must flow from my findings about 
breaches of COBS 4.2.1R. Under COBS Sch 5, theres a right of action for damages for 
breaches of certain COBS rules including the fair, clear and not misleading rule (but subject 
to the proviso in COBS 4.2.6R that if, in relation to a particular communication or financial 
promotion, a firm takes reasonable steps to ensure it complies with the fair, clear and not 
misleading rule, a contravention of that rule does not give rise to a cause of action under 
section 138D of FSMA).  Although I can see the analogy, I dont think its directly relevant 
here. Were an alternative to the courts. We dont award damages as such. I can make a 
money award for such amount as I consider to be fair compensation for, amongst other 
things, financial loss and whether or not a court would award compensation. Further, the basis on which we decide complaints isnt the same as the courts. I determine a 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. In considering that Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice, and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr Ss representative says Ive agreed there were several breaches of COBS 4.2.1R which 
caused Mr S confusion and loss of expectation. Generally, in my provisional decision, I 
referred to the information (both pre and post 2016) as not being entirely clear and I said that 
clearer information couldve been given. But I also said, in connection with the pre 2016 
statements, that although I thought clearer information couldve been given as to exactly how 
the total return had been calculated and if fees had been taken into account, I didnt think the 
allegation that the statements said something which was necessarily inconsistent with what 
Quilter was now saying had been made out. And, in view of that I said, about the later 
statements, that I wasnt persuaded, going forwards, that Mr Ss belief that the total return 
was after deduction of Quilters management fees was necessarily justified. 
But if there were breaches of COBS 4.2.1R and Principle 7, which reiterates the requirement 
to communicate information to clients in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, there 
are three criteria. What I said equates to a finding that there were breaches in terms of the 
requirement to provide clear information. Although Mr Ss representative suggests I said the 
information given was misleading, I dont think I went that far. It isnt a matter of semantics. 
More that its important to put any breaches in context. 
COBS 4.5.2R (4) has also been cited. Im not sure Id agree there was any breach of that 
more specific provision. But in any event I dont think it adds much as COBS 4.2.1R is the 
central obligation. And I agree that it was, to some extent at least, breached. But I think the 
important question, whether the situation is approached on the basis that theres been a 
breach of the rules and/or Principles or otherwise (such as from a contractual or service 
failing perspective) is whether Mr S has suffered any financial loss. 
Mr Ss representative has been clear that Mr S isnt now seeking compensation on the basis 
that his portfolio was unsuitable or based on its performance. Instead hes seeking a refund 
of 50% of the charges hes paid to Quilter, plus interest, and other fees. I can of course see 
the argument that theres been a service failing on Quilters part and, as Mr S was paying for 
that service, a refund of fees would be appropriate. Its a basic tenet of consumer law that a 
service must be carried out with reasonable care and skill and any service failing might 
mean a refund is due. But it will all depend on the circumstances. 
Mr S is seeking a refund because there was an issue with how Quilter reported performance 
of his fund. I say an issue because, although Mr S points to statements received over a ten 
year period, the concern has been the same throughout  how performance compared to the 
benchmark has been reported and if its on a net or gross of management fees basis. As Ive 
said, Mr S could see in money terms how his portfolio was performing even if how it was 
doing against the benchmark couldve been clearer. And he could see that often the 
benchmark wasnt beaten. I think thats an important point in considering if any refund is due 
 the extent and effect of the service failing is a factor to take into account. 
Mr Ss representative says a 50% refund is due on the basis that Quilters responsibilities 
were managing the fund and reporting on it. But there may be arguments that each element 
doesnt carry the same weight or involve the same level of work and so a 50/50 split isnt 
appropriate. And that apportionment would ignore other activities that Quilter undertook as 
DFM and which might include, for example, research, due diligence and analysis. And, even if it was fair to attribute 50% of the fees Mr S paid to reporting, a refund of the full 
amount allocated to that aspect of Quilters service would, in my view, imply a total failure to 
deliver that service. That might sometimes be the case. For example, if a firm undertakes to 
carry out annual reviews which dont, through no fault of the clients, take place and where 
the firm hasnt done anything else to justify an ongoing service fee, we might say that fee 
should be refunded. 
But where theres not been a total service failing the position isnt so clear. Especially if the 
issue relates to the adequacy or otherwise of just one aspect of that part of the service the 
client is unhappy with. Here, even if the statements couldve been clearer in terms of 
comparison with the benchmark, Quilter still produced detailed half yearly investment 
summaries (which ran to about twenty pages or so) and which included, as well as the 
performance summary, a market commentary, asset allocation breakdown, transaction and 
capital and income statements and valuations for each holding. 
I also think Mr S wouldve been willing to pay for his portfolio to be managed. I dont see that 
hed have been happy to undertake that himself. The charges of any other firm he employed 
might have been lower or higher or around the same as Quilters. And the actual 
performance might have been better or worse. 
All in all Im not persuaded that a refund of 50% (or any other percentage) of the fees Mr S 
paid Quilter is proportionate or fair and reasonable. I think in the main Quilter delivered the 
service Mr S was paying for, even if Mr S is unhappy with an aspect of the way in which 
Quilter reported on the performance of the portfolio. 
Mr S has incurred fees in researching whats happened and in bringing his complaint. But I 
dont think an award in respect of those fees is justified. Our service is free and its generally 
only in exceptional circumstances that well make an award for fees incurred in connection 
with bringing the complaint. Although Mr S says that it wasnt until he sought professional 
assistance that his complaint was to some extent at least upheld, Id point out that ours is a 
two stage process. In many cases the investigators and the ombudsmans views will be 
aligned. But, if an investigator doesnt uphold the complaint that doesnt mean, even if no 
further evidence is provided, that an ombudsman will also reject the complaint. And, 
although I did in part uphold the complaint, I was unable to agree with many of the 
arguments made. 
Ive also considered the misstatements Mr S has pointed to. A lot of what he says is to do 
with the figure of 116.24% given in Quilters final response letter dated 11 December 2020 
for net cumulative performance whereas Mr Ss own figure is 97.45%. It isnt the case that I 
dont consider the disparity to be significant. But Mr S points out that Quilter later accepted 
that its figure was in fact gross of management fees. In those circumstances and where it 
seems the figures arent on a like for like basis I dont think any comparison is really relevant. 
But I recognise that, when queries have been raised or a complaint made, its disappointing 
if further confusion results from any unclear, contradictory or inaccurate explanations. That 
wont restore a consumers confidence and will likely cause further frustration which seems 
to have been the case here.  
Overall there were some failures on Quilters part in reporting performance to Mr S. But, as 
Ive indicated before, I dont think its for us to undertake what would amount to a full analysis 
of Mr Ss pension fund and how performance has been reported over a ten year period and 
try to reconcile figures which may or may not be entirely accurate. Although I recognise how 
strongly Mr S feels, and the investment hes made both in terms of his own time and in 
instructing experts to assist him, Im not going to say that Quilter needs to refund any of its 
charges or meet fees incurred by Mr S in connection with the complaint. Mr S has suffered some distress and inconvenience (including loss of expectation or 
disappointment). I think the amount Ive suggested, £750, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances Ive outlined and taking into account the impact on Mr S of Quilters service 
failings. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part only. Quilter Cheviot Limited must pay Mr S £750 for the
distress and inconvenience caused by the service failings Ive identified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman