DRN-3811655
The complaint
Mr C complains Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited [GPI] has unfairly declined a claim 
hes made on his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
References to Mr C and GPI include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr C owned a caravan insured by a caravan insurance policy underwritten by GPI.
He decided to sell the caravan and some potential purchasers visited to undertake an 
inspection. The inspection took several hours and while it was going on the 
purchasers tested connecting the caravan to their car to ensure the caravan electrics 
worked. The caravan was parked on the drive of Mr Cs house at the time and wasnt 
attached to Mr Cs vehicle.
The purchasers confirmed they wanted to proceed and said they were transferring 
the money to Mr Cs account. While this was happening, Mr C went inside his 
property to get the paperwork and when he returned the purchasers had driven off 
with the caravan and the promised funds didnt arrive.
He contacted the police to report the theft and obtained a crime reference number. 
He then contacted GPI to make a claim on the policy. Having filled in claim forms 
with the details of the circumstances, GPI declined the claim as it said it wasnt an 
insured peril.
Mr C complained to GPI but it said Mr C hadnt met the terms of the policy and it 
maintained the decline of the claim. So, Mr C raised a complaint with this Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied the security 
exclusion applied and the removal of the security measures made the theft more 
feasible. Mr C asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying, Im sorry to hear Mr C was the victim of a crime and I empathise 
with his position following the theft of his caravan. The nature of my role means I need to 
consider the evidence from an unbiased and dispassionate perspective, so at times, my 
decision may sound a little matter of fact. I mean no offence by this, its just the nature of my 
role.
When making a claim on a policy, the onus is on the consumer to show the claim is 
covered by the policy.
GPI has accepted the caravan was stolen. But its said Mr C didnt meet the terms of 
the policy relating to security. It referred to the following wording in the policy 
schedule: If the Caravan is detached from the towing vehicle and Unattended the 
Caravan must be secured by a hitch lock and either a wheel or axle lock. 
Within the policy terms Unattended is defined as Any time the occupier/s (You or 
Your Family) are more than 2 metres from the Caravan.
This security requirement is detailed on the second page of Mr Cs policy schedule 
and Im satisfied the wording is clear and unambiguous. Mr C also hasnt argued he 
was unaware of the requirement. 
While waiting for the money to be received, Mr C explains he went into the house to 
collect the paperwork. He hasnt argued he was able to do this while less than two 
metres from the caravan. Im satisfied its more likely than not he would have been 
further away, and this meets the policys definition of unattended which means the 
security devices should have been in place. 
I note from the original notification of the theft, Mr C stated the security was in place 
at the time but in the subsequent claim form, he stated all the security had been 
removed. He said this was because he thought the sale had been agreed and the 
money was being transferred. So, its accepted there were no security devices in 
place at the time of the theft. It follows Mr C hadnt met the security requirements 
detailed in the policy.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) explains insurers should 
only reject claims for breaches of condition if the breach is connected to the loss.
So, Ive gone on to think about whether the caravan would still likely have been 
stolen if the security requirements had been met. It is of course possible the thieves 
might have had the equipment required to disable and remove the security devices. 
But this would have involved more time, additional effort and the risk of noise alerting 
Mr C to what was happening and giving him the chance to intervene. 
On balance, it seems likely to me if the security requirements had been adhered to, 
this would have made the theft less likely or prevented it entirely. So, Im persuaded 
the breach was connected to the loss and Im satisfied its more likely than not the 
theft was facilitated by, or at least made significantly easier, by the removal of the 
security equipment.  
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think GPI has acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms in declining this claim. I wont be upholding this complaint or asking GPI 
to take any further action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman