DRN-2713911
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that NewDay Ltd didnt provide him with information about an outstanding 
balance on his account and that they passed this debt to third party agencies and reported 
adverse information to his credit file and didnt provide him with appropriate support.
What happened
Mr S had a credit account which was administered by NewDay. In 2019, Mr S began 
receiving demands from debt collection agencies for an outstanding balance on the account. 
Mr S was suspicious about these demands as he didnt think that he had an outstanding 
balance. So, he made a complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they felt that the outstanding balance on the 
account was legitimate and they noted that Mr S hadnt made payment on the account 
following their attempts to contact him about this prior to them passing the account to a debt 
collection agency. So, theyd didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy about this, especially as he felt that NewDay hadnt taken due 
consideration of his health and medical issues, and he didnt feel that it was fair that his 
credit file had been affected by this, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that NewDay had been able to 
demonstrate that the outstanding balance was legitimate, and that they had taken 
reasonable steps to try to contact Mr S about it. 
However, NewDay confirmed to our investigator that they had re-reviewed Mr Ss complaint 
and felt that they hadnt recognised Mr S as being a vulnerable customer as quickly as they 
should have done, and so they offered to reimburse charges and interest back to the 
account for the period of time that they hadnt considered Mr S as being vulnerable when 
they should have done, as well as make a payment of £75 to Mr S by way of compensation.
Our investigator felt that this represented a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint, 
and confirmed that he didnt feel that Mr Ss credit file should be amended, because Mr S 
had stopped making payments to NewDay before the account had been passed to a debt 
collection agency, and so he felt that Mr Ss credit file would have been affected whether the 
outstanding balance had remained with NewDay or not.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with NewDays offer, or the view put forward by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at how this account was opened and considered any features or restrictions of 
the account that might be relevant to this complaint. In this instance, I can see that it was a 
feature of the account that it had to be managed online, and NewDay have provided this 
service with product literature which explains to the customer that once they activate the 
account they should register for the Online Account Manager to view their monthly 
statements and other account notices. 
Mr S has explained that his health and medical conditions means that its unsuitable for him 
to be contacted by telephone and that all correspondence should be in writing. However, 
NewDay have confirmed that they have no record of Mr S registering for the Online Account 
Manager subsequent to the credit account being activated. And it must be noted that Mr S 
did correspond with NewDay electronically, via email, when inquiring with them why he 
hadnt received paper statements for the account.
Mr S has explained that he wasnt aware what the outstanding balance on his account was 
for. Having reviewed the statements on the account, its evident that the account had a zero 
balance but that a purchase was made using the account in February 2019, but that no 
payment was subsequently received from Mr S to bring the account back to a zero balance, 
which led to late payments fees being applied.
The statement and communication record that NewDay have provided to this service provide 
a clear timeline of how the balance on the account accrued, and include notices sent to Mr S 
about the missed payment advising him that his account was in arrears. And this information 
would have been available to Mr S, had he registered for the Online Account Manager, as he 
was directed to do by the account product literature.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that NewDay didnt provide Mr S with 
ongoing information about the status and balance of his account, but rather that Mr S didnt 
access the information about his account that was provided for him by NewDay.
Its evident from the contact notes on the account that Mr S contacted NewDay in June 2019 
to ask about the outstanding balance on his account, and Mr S informed NewDay of his 
medical and health conditions at that time. 
NewDay have acknowledged to this service that they didnt take appropriate notice of Mr Ss 
issues at that time, and that had they done so they would have recognised Mr S as being a 
vulnerable customer and wouldnt have subsequently passed his account to a debt collection 
agency, which they did in October 2019.
Because of this, NewDay offered to reimburse to Mr Ss account all the interest and charges 
that had been applied to the account between June 2019, when NewDay should have 
recognised that Mr S was a vulnerable customer, and October 2019, when the account was 
passed to the debt collection agency, and after which time no further interest and charges 
were applied to the account. NewDay have also offered to make a payment of £75 to Mr S 
by way of compensation for not recognising him as being a vulnerable customer when they 
first should have done.
This offer from NewDay feels fair to me, and I consider that it represents a reasonable 
resolution to this complaint.
Mr S has expressed his dissatisfaction that adverse information has been recorded on his 
credit file because of this outstanding balance, and he would like NewDays offer to extend 
to the removal of this adverse information from his credit file.
Its understandable that Mr S would want the record of the late payment of his account 
removed from his credit file, but as a credit provider, NewDay have a responsibility to make 
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and Im not convinced that it would be appropriate for me to instruct NewDay to amend Mr Ss credit file in the way that he wants 
here.
For me to consider making such an instruction, I would need to be satisfied that NewDay 
had made an error that had directly led to Mr Ss credit file incurring adverse reporting, which 
would not have occurred otherwise, had the error not been made.
I dont feel that this is the case in this instance, and I say this because Mr Ss account was 
already in arrears when he contacted NewDay in June 2019 and first made them aware of 
his health and medical issues. And while NewDay didnt recognise Mr S as being a 
vulnerable customer at that time, Im satisfied that even if they had done so, the adverse 
information would still have been recorded on Mr Ss credit file. And this is because, 
ultimately, Mr S didnt make the payment on the account that needed to be made for the 
reporting of this adverse information on his credit file to be avoided.
All of which means that I wont be asking NewDay to update Mr Ss credit file in this 
instance, as Im satisfied that the information currently reported to Mr Ss credit file is a fair 
and accurate reflection of what took place on the account.
It follows that I feel that the offer already made by NewDay to Mr S, as described previously, 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and because of this I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking NewDay to take any further action here - beyond the offer 
that they have made to which they have already agreed.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, considering everything I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman