DRN-4065382
The complaint
Mr C says Revolut Ltd (Revolut), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to an 
investment scam. He says Revolut should reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
In summary, Mr C fell victim to an investment scam. Mr C spotted an online investment 
opportunity which was advertised on a popular social media platform. Mr C filled out an 
online form and was then contacted by someone. Then, at the request of the scammers, 
Mr C set up a Revolut account. He also set up a cryptocurrency account / and downloaded 
an app on his phone to be able to convert GBP into cryptocurrency to be able to send on.
Mr C made a transfer of £1,000 on 28 June 2022 and then a further £3,000 the following 
day. Mr C subsequently had difficulty obtaining any funds / profits and was asked to pay 
additional fees to withdraw his profits. Ultimately, Mr C realised he had fallen victim to a 
scam. 
In September 2022, Mr C reported the matter to Revolut through its live chat to see if his 
funds could be reimbursed or recovered. Revolut asked some questions of Mr C regarding 
the scam and after not receiving a response closed the chat. Mr C picked this up again on 
4 October 2022. Ultimately Revolut didnt consider it was liable for the losses Mr C incurred.
 
Unhappy, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They were satisfied Mr C had authorised the 
transfers and they didnt think Revolut ought to have done more to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They didnt consider Revolut ought to have had a 
cause for concern that Mr C was potentially at risk of financial harm, or that he was falling 
victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned him further 
about the transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as Revolut explained that it had received a 
response from the beneficiary bank advising that no funds remained, the Investigator 
considered there wasnt anything further that Revolut could do to recover the funds.
Mr C disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have been done by 
Revolut to prevent his losses. 
As Mr C disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr Cs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Revoluts actions, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr C was a victim to a cruel scam. But 
in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should reimburse him. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is agreed by all parties that Mr C made the bank transfers himself from his Revolut 
account. So it is the case that Mr C authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And under 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) 
that means Mr C is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr C was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a Firm to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, Firms like Revolut have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr C when he made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say that any of the transfers 
Mr C made in relation to the scam would (or should) have alerted Revolut that Mr C was at 
risk of financial harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional 
checks before processing the transfers. So I dont consider Revolut are liable for the losses 
Mr C incurred. Ill explain why.
The Revolut account was opened around four days before Mr C made the first transfer of 
£1,000 on 28 June 2022. I have to be mindful that banks / payment service providers 
process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And Firms have to strike a 
balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or 
delaying its customers requests. 
I dont consider there is anything unusual or remarkable about the first transfer or the 
amount that ought to have alerted Revolut to the possibility Mr C was being scammed or 
was at risk of financial harm. Mr C then sent a further £3,000 the next day. Again, there isnt 
anything remarkable about this transfer or the amount that reasonably should have given 
Revolut any cause for concern.So, here, Mr C made two transfers over two days. I dont find this to be unusual or a pattern 
of activity that would have given Revolut cause for concern. Had Mr C made multiple 
transfers in a very short space of time, it may have been arguable to suggest that Revolut 
might have had a concern  as making multiple payments in a short space of time can be an 
indicator that someone may be at risk of financial harm. But when I consider the value of 
these transfers, alongside the time period in which they were made, to my mind, it wouldnt 
have been an indicator to Revolut that Mr C was at risk to an extent whereby it ought to have 
questioned him further about the transfers.
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Mr C may be a victim 
of fraud when he made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to 
intervene and carry out some additional checks or question him further about the transfers. 
So I cant fairly say Revolut could have prevented his losses or is liable in some way.
 
Recovery of the funds
I note Revolut advised that the beneficiary bank responded on 24 October 2022 explaining 
that no funds remained that could be recovered. However from its submissions to this 
service, Revolut also advised that it didnt receive a response. So, to me, it seems most 
likely that Revolut, as it didnt receive a response from the beneficiary bank, treated the non-
response as an indication that no funds remained. While this isnt helpful and confused 
matters, I am mindful that the scam was unfortunately reported some months after Mr C had 
made the transfers. And I am also mindful that Mr C was sending the funds to a 
cryptocurrency account with the money being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  
so it was always likely that there wasnt anything further Revolut could have done to help 
Mr C recover his funds. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mr Cs been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Revoluts decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Revolut followed Mr Cs instructions to make the transfers 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Unfortunately, given the 
funds Mr C transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, there wasnt 
anything further Revolut could do to help Mr C recover his funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman