DRN-3904309
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc incorrectly downgraded his account 
without him being notified and this had an impact on him paying for home improvements.
What happened
Mr P says that on 24 October 2022, the NatWest banking application (app), displayed his 
usual cash transfer limit, yet they failed to make a transfer of £13,070 even though his 
transfer limit was higher than this. He said that when he rang NatWests Premier customer 
helpline, he was informed he was not a Premier customer. He says he was then told that he 
would need to re-register for online banking. As Mr P was unable to transfer the funds before 
the close of business that day, this resulted in the third party company being unable to 
attend his property the following day to make the home improvements. Mr P made a 
complaint to NatWest.
NatWest upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. They said that he was removed from the Premier 
service as they believed this was due to his income for a few months being under the criteria 
for Premier. They said if Mr P did not have regular contact with his Premier banking 
manager, it can be difficult for their automatic system to know if he met the Premier criteria, 
as the system assesses income month by month. They apologised for not notifying him of 
the change of his account. NatWest credited £50 to his account to apologise. Mr P brought 
his complaint to our service. He said he wanted £500 compensation to resolve his complaint. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. She said NatWest has since confirmed that Mr Ps 
account was downgraded in error as he had met the criteria for the Premier account. She 
said the downgrade meant he was unable to make his payment to the third party during his 
original call with NatWest as he was told he would need to re-register for online banking and 
make the payment himself. Our investigator said that the payment was made by Mr P shortly 
after 5pm using his online banking, however, Mr P needed to ensure the third party he was 
paying received the funds by close of business to secure his appointment. As the third party 
confirmed they hadnt received his funds by the close of business, then they reallocated his 
appointment to another customer.
Our investigator said that the third party company has a website that shows they operate 
until 6pm and the timescales for faster payments can take anywhere up to two hours to be 
received. She said that if Mr P was able to make his transfer during the original call with 
NatWest at 16:46pm, its not possible to definitively confirm whether the third party would 
have received, but also processed this in time and by the close of business. She said 
NatWest should pay Mr P a further £100, totalling £150 compensation as they incorrectly 
downgraded his account to begin with, failed to assign him a relationship manager and 
provided him with a poor service. Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
said that the third party would confirm that their specific requirement was that he provided 
evidence to them of the payment by 5pm in order to secure the appointment and if NatWest 
had not incorrectly downgraded his account, then he would have easily been able to make 
the payment on the app and send the required evidence to them by 5pm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has said regarding the third party confirming that their specific 
requirement would be him providing evidence to them of the payment by 5pm. But on the 
email he provided to us from the third party, which they sent him on the following day, this 
says when payment was not received by close of business yesterday and goes onto say 
that they allocated his appointment to another customer. So I am persuaded that by their 
own wording on the email that the funds needed to be received by the close of business and 
not evidence of them being sent. This is further evidenced by the email saying If we receive 
your payment tomorrow, we will aim to be with you on Thursday  although the reality is 
they should have already received Mr Ps payment when they emailed him on 25 October 
2022. 
Although the email doesnt state what time the close of their business day is, Mr P has said 
that he needed to send the payment by 5pm. Based on the method of payment being a 
faster payment and the time that Mr P rang NatWest, there would have been no guarantee 
that the third party would have received the funds and reconciled this was Mr Ps payment 
by the close of business if he had been able to make the payment over the phone. I say this 
as although faster payments can be instant, they can also take up to two hours to be 
received. And for this reason, Im not persuaded that NatWest were at fault for the third party 
allocating Mr Ps appointment to another customer. 
But I am persuaded that NatWest let Mr P down on a number of occasions. I say this as not 
only was he not allocated a Premier manager, which he should have been, this meant that 
due to him not receiving a financial health check, that the system incorrectly downgraded 
his account, despite him meeting the criteria for the Premier account. In addition, he was not 
informed of their decision to do so. My understanding is that it is usually the Premier 
manager would be the one to inform him of the downgrade, but because there wasnt one 
allocated to him, this appears to be the reason he wasnt informed. So I would have 
expected NatWest to have other controls in place to inform Mr P of this, but this didnt 
happen. And he only found out about this when he was faced with a time critical situation.
So not only would this be distressing for Mr P given the circumstances he was in at the time, 
but this would also have been compounded by the app not allowing him to make the transfer 
due to his account being downgraded. This meant Mr P was inconvenienced by having to 
speak to NatWest on the phone, at a time when he needed to make the transfer as quickly 
as possible to give him the best chance of the third party receiving the money by their close 
of business. He was further inconvenienced as the call handler was unable to make the 
payment over the phone and he had to re-register for internet banking before he was finally 
able to make the payment shortly after 5pm.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. NatWest have reinstated the 
Premier account and assigned him a Premier manager. But this only puts him back in the 
position that he would have been had they not made any errors. Ive considered that Mr P 
wants £500 to resolve his complaint. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
So Im satisfied that the extra £100 compensation our investigator recommended, to total 
£150 is fair for what happened here. Im persuaded that it reflects the impact that NatWests errors would have had on Mr P. So it follows I require NatWest to put things right for Mr P
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that NatWest pays Mr P an extra £100 compensation which I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr P an extra £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to total £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman