DRN-2504850
The complaint
Mr M complains that his mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC had the wrong term and 
expired sooner that hed expected. Mr M says Barclays was unfair not to extend the term. He 
asks that Barclays refunds additional interest, legal costs and pays compensation for his 
stress.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2013, most of it on interest only terms. The term 
expired in 2018. Mr M says he didnt know the mortgage only had a five-year term. He says 
Barclays should have extended the term when he took out a new product in 2016 and told it 
he didnt intend to sell the property for seven years.
Barclays didnt agree to extend the mortgage. Mr M re-mortgaged with another lender about 
18 months after the term expired, incurring interest at Barclays standard variable rate (SVR) 
in the meantime. Mr M says Barclays caused stress and worry by taking court action, which 
it billed him for. 
Our investigator said the mortgage was recommended by a broker, not Barclays. The broker 
would have given Mr M advice about the suitability of the term and repayment method. Mr M 
didnt apply for a term extension in 2016, and the mortgage offer sent to him in 2016 said the 
remaining term was two years. The investigator said Barclays wasnt unfair to decline to 
extend the mortgage, or to apply interest at the SVR until Mr M repaid the mortgage. 
Mr M didnt agree, saying Barclays should have been clearer. He said he wouldnt have 
accepted the five-year term if hed known. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the five-year mortgage term made clear?
A broker recommended the mortgage to Mr M in 2013. The broker would have given Mr M 
advice about the suitability of the term and made the application to Barclays on his behalf. 
The mortgage offer sent by Barclays to Mr M in 2013 says the mortgage term was five years. 
Mr M took out a new product in 2016. The mortgage offer says the term was two years and 
one month. 
Barclays wrote to Mr M in 2017 saying the mortgage had a scheduled maturity date in June 
2018, and Mr M should make plans to repay it. 
I think Barclays was clear about the mortgage term and when it would expire. 
Should Barclays have extended the term in 2016?
Mr M took out a new product in 2016, on an advised basis. The application form says the 
mortgage term is two years. Barclays records say a two-year tracker product was 
recommended to Mr M because:
Your main priority was to be able to redeem the mortgage at any time with no cost 
whilst also providing the lowest monthly repayment available. You want to have a 
mortgage product to match the mortgage term
This mortgage has no ERC's.
You want to keep the mortgage term the same as it is currently as this still fits with 
your preferences and priorities. Maximum term available on rate switch application. I 
have recommended a mortgage term of 2 years.
The application form said Mr Ms repayment strategy was the sale of mortgaged property. 
The application form asked how long Mr M intended to keep the property, and he said 
seven. Mr M says this was seven years. The subject access report Barclays sent says this 
was zero years and seven months. 
I dont think it changes matters if Mr M did say seven years. I dont think its reasonable to 
say that on the basis of this Barclays should have varied the terms of the mortgage. Mr M 
didnt request an extension. The application information says Mr M wanted to keep the 
mortgage term the same and be able to sell the property during the product term without 
paying an ERC. And the mortgage offer  which Mr M accepted  was clear about the 
remaining term.
Did Barclays treat Mr M fairly when the term expired in 2018?
I need to be fair to both parties here. Mr M borrowed the money and he did have to repay it. 
Fairness suggests as a starting point that this happened when the term expired in mid-2018. 
Barclays considered Mr Ms request for an extension or new mortgage. It declined this due 
to adverse information on his credit file. Mr M says this was incorrectly recorded and it took 
some months for his credit file to be corrected. He couldnt get a mortgage with another 
provider until his credit file was corrected. Mr M repaid the mortgage in December 2019. 
Barclays records say Mr M told it he had enough funds in his business and an overseas 
property to repay the mortgage, but preferred to re-mortgage. Barclays records also say that 
payments werent maintained and Mr M didnt provide information about his income and 
expenditure, which Barclays asks for when it agrees to hold legal action.
I do understand that Mr M found legal action by Barclays upsetting. I must also take into 
account that Barclays was entitled to expect its money to be repaid  and Mr M had said he 
was able to do this, but preferred to re-mortgage. I appreciate that problems with Mr Ms 
credit file delayed re-mortgaging. But if hed provided information to Barclays it could have 
agreed payments and put action on hold for agreed periods. As this didnt happen, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to write to Mr M about possible legal action and then 
proceed with legal action. 
The interest rate product Mr M took out in 2016 ended in March 2018. Barclays expected 
him to repay the mortgage, and so I dont think it had to offer him a new product. I dont think 
its reasonable to say that Barclays should have waived interest, or applied a lower interest 
rate until Mr M repaid his mortgage. I dont think Barclays would have known if Mr M thought the mortgage had a longer term. I 
think the information it sent to him was clear about the term and the expiry date. I dont think 
Barclays treated Mr M unfairly when it didnt extend the mortgage term, or in applying 
interest to the debt. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to 
refund interest or costs or pay compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman