DRN-1753282
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Zenith Insurance plc. He isnt happy that it avoided (treated it as 
if it never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M took out his motorbike insurance policy with Zenith through a broker. When his 
motorbike was stolen from the rear of his house, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Zenith looked into things for him but declined his claim. It also avoided his policy and 
returned the premiums hed paid. When Mr M complained, it said hed answered a question 
about his occupation incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think 
that Zenith had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed there had 
been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was careless. But as Zenith has shown that 
had Mr M have answered the question about his occupation correctly at renewal, it wouldnt 
have insured him, it was entitled to decline the claim.  
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. The relevant law in this 
case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation - as in this 
instance. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.  
Zenith thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
was asked by his broker at renewal about his occupation. And Ive looked at the question he 
was asked when he renewed his policy and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is 
because he was asked, in his own language as English isnt his first language, whether he 
still worked as a process operator and he said he did. When in fact Mr M had started a new 
job as a scaffolder a few weeks before and that isnt in dispute. Ultimately, Im satisfied that 
this was a clear question.
Mr M moved jobs about a month before the renewal of his policy and a a few weeks before 
he renewed his policy with his broker over the phone. I agree that Mr M was careless in his 
answer but, as Ive said, the question was pretty clear in asking whether he still worked as a 
process operator and it was asked in his own language. So, I think this means Mr M failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he didnt say that he had 
changed jobs.  
Zenith has provided clear evidence which shows that if Mr M hadnt made this 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have insured him. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I also think Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless, 
so Im pleased to see that Zenith has refunded his premium in full.
Therefore, Im satisfied Zenith was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Zenith doesnt have to deal 
with his claim following the theft of his motorbike. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Zenith to rely on it to avoid 
Mr Ms policy is fair in the particular circumstances of this case.
Finally, I can see that Zenith has offered Mr M £200 compensation in recognition of some of 
the delays he faced while it looked into his claim. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for reasons given above, that Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman