DRN-3280079
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat them fairly by continuing 
to apply charges when their account was showing signs of financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A complained to HSBC about the charges applied to their account from 2015 
onwards. They said they had been struggling financially throughout this period and that the 
charges HSBC applied had made their financial situation worse.
HSBC looked at Mr and Mrs As complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong, so 
Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, she felt that HSBC should have identified 
that Mr and Mrs A were struggling with their finances by August 2016, and so recommended 
that it refund the charges and interest applied to the overdraft from that point onwards. 
HSBC didnt agree, it said that it had offered help to Mr and Mrs A during the periods when 
they were struggling. But as a gesture of goodwill HSBC nonetheless offered to refund 
another £500 of charges to Mr and Mrs A, it did though say that it would then be removing 
their £500 overdraft facility although they could apply for a new facility if they wanted to.
Mr and Mrs A were not happy with this offer, they didnt feel the refund offered was enough 
to recognise the charges they had paid over the years, and the want to keep their overdraft 
facility.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 12 January 2022. HSBC agreed with my 
findings, Mr and Mrs A didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Ive looked closely at Mr and Mrs As bank statements going back to when their £500 
overdraft limit was agreed in August 2015. I can see that over the following year they did 
regularly exceed their overdraft limit, and by August 2016 they were spending extended 
periods of time over their arranged limit. However, I can also see that HSBC refunded 
charges to them in September 2016, October 2016 and December 2016  apparently in an 
effort to help stop the cycle of charges they appeared to be in. And after this time, there was 
a clear improvement in the operation of the account. There were still occasions when the 
account went over its limit, but these were for short periods of time. And the account was 
receiving regular credits and seeing a significant credit balance each month. 
In 2019 the account began to deteriorate once again, with more periods where it was in an 
unarranged overdraft and hence more charges being incurred. But in June 2020 HSBC once 
again refunded charges incurred in late 2019 and early 2020 in an effort to assist Mr and 
Mrs A. 
Its arguable that HSBC could have stepped in to assist them earlier, as there were clear 
signs that they might have been struggling throughout most of 2019. However, HSBC has 
now offered to refund a further £500 of charges as a gesture of goodwill, and this represents 
most of the charges and interest incurred throughout 2019, so I think this is a fair resolution 
to Mr and Mrs As complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A say they would like to keep their overdraft limit, but whether 
HSBC is prepared to offer an overdraft facility is a commercial decision. And given that this 
complaint is about the overdraft charges Mr and Mrs A have been incurring it seems 
sensible for HSBC to review whether the overdraft facility is appropriate. So removing the 
facility  once it has been repaid with the offered refund  and then suggesting that Mr and 
Mrs A re-apply for a new facility if they still want it seems like a sensible step to take. This 
will ensure that the affordability of any facility HSBC is willing to offer them can be fully 
assessed taking into account their current financial circumstances.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs A, but Im satisfied that HSBCs offer to pay 
them £500 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint, and I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more.
As HSBC has accepted my findings, and Mr and Mrs A havent responded with any further 
comment, I see no reason to depart form my provisional decision, so my findings are 
unchanged.
Putting things right
HSBC should refund to Mr and Mrs A the £500 of charges it has offered to refund, if it hasnt 
done so already.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman