DRN-2350617
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Mrs T says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In June 1997 Mrs T took out PPI during a phone call. The policy protected the repayments 
on a store card shed taken out a few months earlier. 
Amongst other things, Mrs T said she had some long term medical conditions when she took 
out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ts complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Mrs T 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for a particular lifelong condition Mrs T had when she 
bought it. 
AXA didnt respond to our adjudicators view.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im still thinking of upholding Mrs Ts complaint, but not for the same reason as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Mrs T had a lifelong condition she was born with that our adjudicator thought made the 
policy unsuitable for her. 
But I dont think I've seen enough information to be able to agree. I say this because Mrs T 
has told us that this condition hasnt ever led to her needing to take time off work. 
So, even if AXA didnt do enough to draw to Mrs Ts attention a policy restriction that 
wouldve made it difficult for her to claim for this condition, I dont think it wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Ts decision to take the policy out. Thats because I dont think its likely, 
when she took out the PPI, that Mrs T wouldve had any reason to expect shed need to 
claim for absence from work due to her lifelong condition.
But Mrs T also had a different and serious long term health condition that our adjudicator 
didnt mention. So I've thought carefully about the impact that condition had on Mrs Ts day 
to day life and her ability to work.
AXA needed to give Mrs T enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
Theres no call recording and I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to 
Mrs T.
It looks like the policy Mrs T bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which Mrs T knew, or ought to have known about or which she asked 
about or received advice, treatment or counselling for from any doctor during the 12 months 
immediately before the policy start date.
So it looks like the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and sickness claims 
resulting from an ongoing medical condition that Mrs Ts doctor diagnosed in 1994. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mrs T. I say 
this because I think that her condition is relatively serious. It has the potential to impact 
significantly on her day to day life and affect her ability to work. Mrs T told us she manages 
her condition daily with prescribed medication but this doesnt always stop her symptoms. 
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this policy limitation to her attention, as it shouldve done, 
when it sold her the PPI. Given her medical condition was ongoing, I think Mrs T wouldve 
wanted to know it would be covered by taking out this type of cover. And if AXA had 
explained the policy limitation as it shouldve done, I dont think its likely that Mrs T wouldve 
thought the policy was right for her.  
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mrs T has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has commented on what Ive said in my provisional decision by the due date 
for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that the account has already been closed so: 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs T would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs T would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs T would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs T 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs T 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs T that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman