DRN-1158585
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account. He says this caused him 
trouble and upset and he wants HSBC to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with HSBC. 
In May 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr M to let him know that due to his conduct in branch it had 
decided to close his account. HSBC gave him 60 days notice and told him that he needed to 
make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr M says he has been very upset by HSBCs decision to close his account and that he has 
been put to a great deal of inconvenience trying to sort out a new bank account. He has said 
because of HSBCs actions he had to return to the UK from overseas to try and sort out a 
new bank account and had to stay in a hotel. Mr M says HSBC should cover the costs he 
incurred for the hotel. Mr M has explained that he has health problems and that HSBCs 
actions have had a detrimental impact on his health. 
Mr M has also said that he feels HSBC have discriminated against him on the grounds of his 
religion. And that is the real reason HSBC closed his account. He wants HSBC to pay 
£5,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the closure of his 
account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr M complaint. He was satisfied HSBC had acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr M disagreed. Hes still upset that 
HSBC closed the account. He says HSBC has discriminated against him and treated him 
unfairly. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is upset. Im sorry this experience has made him feel unwell. 
And that this has been a stressful situation. I can also appreciate why Mr M is unhappy with 
HSBCs decision and that the impact this had on him may have been greater due to his 
health problems. But for me to uphold his complaint I have to think the bank has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. I will explain why. 
HSBC has provided evidence to show that it decided to close Mr Ms accounts due to his 
racist and abusive conduct towards staff at a branch on more than one occasion. 
HSBCs terms and conditions, under section 27, say that they can close an account when 
the customer has acted abusively, offensively or violently towards staff.  Ive looked at the information HSBC has provided our service and having done so, Im satisfied that Mr Ms 
behaviour was abusive at times when he visited a branch. It follows that I think HSBC has 
acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions, when deciding to close the account. 
I acknowledge that Mr M has said that the bank is discriminating against him on the grounds 
of his religion. And believe that this is the rationale for the account closure. Whilst 
I recognise the strength of his feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any 
discrimination on the part of HSBC.
In summary, I appreciate that my decision will come as a great frustration and 
disappointment to Mr M. But overall, having looked at whats happened here I dont think 
HSBC treated Mr M unfairly when it closed his account. So, for this reason I wont be asking 
HSBC to pay Mr M compensation for any trouble and upset hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman