DRN-2364519
The complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR Limited gave him five loans that he couldnt afford. The 
complaint is brought to this service by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall 
refer below to all actions being taken by Mr S.
What happened
Mr S took out five loans with MYJAR. Loans 1 and 3 were repayable by one monthly 
repayment, Loan 2 by three monthly repayments and Loans 4 and 5 were repayable by 12 
monthly repayments. All the loans have been repaid. Mr Ss loan history is as follows:-
Loan 
number Date of 
LoanLoan amount Repayment date 
1. 15/8/2015 £100 17/9/2015
2. 31/12/2015 £125 31/3/2016
3. 9/4/2016 £100 21/4/2016
4. 7/1/2017 £250 22/12/2017
5. 7/3/2018 £450 8/12/2018
Mr S said that MYJAR failed to carry out effective affordability assessments prior to the 
issuing of borrowing. If an effective assessment had been carried out, the borrowing would 
not have been provided.
In its final response letter MYJAR said it undertook a number of checks, which included 
information provided by Mr S in his application, up-to-date credit reference agency 
information, searches on public databases, fraud checks, credit scoring and information 
about Mr S from its own records, such as past borrowing and repayment behaviour. But it 
concluded that lending Loan 1 to Mr S may not have been appropriate. And it proposed to 
refund the interest and charges that were paid on Loan 1 and pay simple interest at 8% on 
the refunds and remove adverse information about the loan from Mr Ss credit file. MYJAR 
said its offer was in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr S sent his complaint to this service shortly after receiving the final response letter. He 
said that he was in financial difficulties and that his rent was in arrears.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator noted that MYJAR had offered to settle Loan 1. So, he said that his 
assessment was in relation to Loans 2 to 5. He also said that there were two chains of 
borrowing as there was a considerable gap between Loans 3 and 4. The adjudicator didnt 
uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loans 2 to 5.
Mr S disagreed. He said that considering the other loans he had, he wasnt sure the 
adjudicators view was correct. 
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to MYJAR on 17 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
As MYJAR had offered to settle Loan 1, I didnt think I needed to make a decision about that 
loan. But Id kept that loan in mind when considering Loans 2 to 5 and included the offered 
redress for Loan 1 in my redress. 
Id noted that for all of Mr Ss loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I said that it was important for me to say that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr S 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. Id noted from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Mr Ss income as well as details about his housing costs, other 
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. 
Id also noted that MYJAR had carried out credit checks. Id seen a summary of its credit 
checks. These showed that Mr S wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement
Wed also received a credit report from Mr S. I could see that this showed that Mr S had 
taken out numerous loans. 
Id thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loan 2, Mr S needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £64 to repay the 
loan over three months. It seemed on the face of it that the repayments would have looked 
relatively modest compared to Mr Ss declared income. However, I thought the information 
MYJAR gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks. 
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 2 to Mr S. It had asked for 
his income which Mr S had declared as £700 and for his outgoings. MYJAR had asked for 
details of three categories for Mr Ss outgoings: his housing, his credit commitments and 
other. Id noted that Mr Ss loan application showed that his housing costs were £100, that 
he had credit repayments of £50 but no other expenses. MYJAR had then made 
adjustments to these figures using its own internal affordability calculations. I could see on 
MYJARs records that they showed Mr Ss other expenses as £436. 
Id also noted that MYJAR had carried out a credit check before Loan 2 and had seen a 
summary of that check. This showed that Mr S had an overdue credit account. It also 
showed that Mr S had opened two new accounts in the previous three months.
Id thought the results of MYJARs credit checks ought to have given it concerns that Mr S 
already had an adverse credit record and that his finances might be under pressure. 
I could also see that MYJAR had adjusted Mr Ss expenses to reflect statistical expenditure 
and what it had seen in its credit checks. It had determined a monthly affordable amount 
(MAA) and had explained the data used for this calculation. In its loan information table, 
MYJAR showed that the MAA was £114.80. As the highest monthly loan repayment was 
around £64 for three months, this would have left Mr S with around £50 a month for three 
months to meet any unexpected or seasonal costs. Id thought leaving Mr S with this margin 
for each of those months meant it would be highly likely he would have difficulty meeting his 
loan repayments without borrowing further. Given this, Id thought that MYJAR should have 
been concerned that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr S. So altogether, Id 
thought this should have alerted MYJAR to have made much more thorough checks and to 
have looked into Mr Ss financial situation in more detail before lending Loan 2 to him. So far 
as I could see MYJAR didnt verify Mr Ss income or his expenses  for example by asking to 
see payslips or bills.
 
Id carefully looked at Mr Ss credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 2 
to see what better checks would have shown MYJAR. I wasnt suggesting that MYJAR ought 
to have done so. But I thought looking at this information gave me the best picture of what 
the lender was likely to have seen. I could see from the credit report and bank statements that Mr S had at least four short term 
loans from other lenders which were to be repaid at the same time as Loan 2 including a 
loan of £95 taken around two weeks earlier, a loan of £312 taken out the previous month 
and another short term loan which was in arrears. So, had MYJAR sought to verify Mr Ss 
financial position, I thought it would have seen that Mr S was having difficulty managing his 
money and unlikely to be in a position to sustainably repay further credit. So, I didnt think 
MYJAR should have agreed to lend Loan 2 to Mr S.
 
Id noted from MYJARs records that Mr S had two failed payment attempts on Loan 2. We 
hadnt received a loan statement from MYJAR to show the dates when Mr Ss repayments 
on Loan 2 were due and when they were repaid.  So, Id asked the adjudicator to obtain this 
from the lender. The statement MYJAR had supplied to this service only showed the dates of 
the repayments that Mr S had made. It wasnt clear from this when the repayments were 
missed although I could see that no payments were made in January 2016.
Id taken the failed payment attempts into account when looking at whether MYJAR should 
have given Loan 3 to Mr S. Hed applied for Loan 3 just nine days after hed repaid Loan 2. 
And although the loan amount of £100 was lower than Loan 2, it was to be repaid over a 
month. So, the monthly repayment was higher than his previous loan when he apparently 
had repayment problems repaying much smaller amounts. 
Id seen a summary of MYJARs credit checks before Loan 3. These appeared to show that 
Mr Ss financial situation had worsened. He had opened five new accounts in the previous 
three months and balances on four accounts had increased in that time. In view of the two 
failed payment attempts on Mr Ss previous loan, his need for more credit shortly after 
repaying Loan 2 and his worsening credit situation, Id thought MYJAR ought to have again 
sought a more comprehensive picture of Mr Ss finances when hed applied for Loan 3. I 
couldnt see that it had done this.
Id again looked at Mr Ss credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 3 to 
see what better checks would have shown MYJAR. I could see that Mr S was unemployed at 
the time hed applied for Loan 3 and in receipt of benefit income. So, his income was around 
half of the amount hed declared before Loan 3 and only around the level of the minimum 
income standard amount calculated by MYJAR. So, Id thought if MYJAR had sought to 
verify Mr Ss financial position, it would have seen that Mr S wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay further credit. So, I didnt think MYJAR should have agreed to lend Loan 3 
to Mr S.
 
Id noted that Mr S had made three loan applications to MYJAR in September and    
November 2016. But these three applications were declined. The September 2016 
application was made around five months after Loan 3 was repaid. I didnt think the gap 
between the repayment of Loan 3 and Mr Ss loan application in September 2016 was long 
enough for MYJAR to conclude that Mr S had successfully overcome whatever financial 
problems had led to him taking out previous loans. So, I didnt think MYJAR was entitled to 
treat Mr S as a new customer when hed applied for loans in September and          
November 2016.
Mr S had taken out Loan 4 around seven weeks after his last loan application had been 
declined.  I didnt think the gap between Mr Ss last loan application in November 2016 and 
his application for Loan 4 was anywhere near long enough to give MYJAR any confidence 
that Mr Ss finances had stabilised. 
The loan amount on Loan 4 was double Mr Ss previous highest loan amount. By the time of 
Loan 4, Id thought the higher loan amount and Mr Ss previous application history might have suggested to MYJAR that Mr S might have some longer term financial problems rather 
than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
In addition, Mr S was committing to repay Loan 4 over 12 months. That was a substantial 
commitment that he was entering into, and so I thought MYJAR should have taken great 
care to ensure that he was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So, Id thought 
MYJAR should again have become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ss 
true financial situation. And again, looking at the checks it did, I didnt think MYJAR had done  
enough to find out whether Mr S could sustainably afford the repayments for Loan 4.
Id carefully looked at Mr Ss credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 4 
to see what better checks would have shown MYJAR. I could see that Mr S had at least 
another four outstanding short term loans from other lenders which would have been 
repayable at the same time as Loan 4. I thought this might again have suggested to MYJAR 
that Mr S was facing problems managing his money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 4 
in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt think MYJAR should have given Loan 4 to Mr S. 
Id noted that the loan amount for Loan 5 was almost double that of Mr Ss previous loan and 
his highest yet.  And again, Mr S was committing to repay Loan 5 over 12 months. This was 
again a substantial commitment and Id thought that MYJAR should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information Mr S was providing about his finances. So, Id thought 
it should have taken steps again to independently verify Mr Ss true financial position. 
Id carefully looked at Mr Ss credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 5 
to see what better checks would have shown MYJAR.
I could see that Mr S had at least three short term loans including one for £367 taken out just 
a week before his application for Loan 5. He also owed a mail order business nearly £800. 
So, Id thought that MYJAR would have seen that Mr S was still facing problems managing 
his money had it carried out a proportionate check here and as a responsible lender, would 
have declined Loan 5.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order SL to put things right as follows. 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on Loans 1 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file with regard to 
Loans 1 to 5;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
MYJAR responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr S is happy with my provisional decision and MYJAR has accepted it, and that 
they have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the complaint and 
require MYJAR to pay Mr S compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
MYJAR Limited to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on Loans 1 to 5;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file with regard to 
      Loans 1 to 5;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman