DRN-2926654
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in May 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Hitachi pay £100 compensation for Mr Rs 
trouble.
Hitachi didnt agree, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that Mr R was not given sufficiently clear information to demonstrate that the 
solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an additional cost for him.
I have noted that the performance estimate he was given said that the benefit in the first year 
would be around £723 (and it actually transpired to be a little more than that), while the 
finance agreement clearly stated that he would have to pay around £116 a month, which in 
the course of a year would add up to more than the benefit figure. But the handwriting on the 
performance estimate is barely legible. Even if that were not the case, I think that the benefit 
and the cost needed to be set out in a clear way so that they could be easily compared by 
Mr R without having to refer to multiple documents.
I therefore accept Mr Rs evidence that a misrepresentation took place. So I think that 
Hitachi didnt treat Mr R fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Hitachi need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Rs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr R has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Hitachi, and then Hitachi must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi must 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman