DRN-3836679
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont pay him the increased incentive 
payment of £200 for switching his current account.
What happened
On 3 September 2022, Mr J applied to switch his current account to Nationwide. At the time, 
Nationwide were offering new customers an incentive payment of £100 to switch current 
accounts. Mr Js switch was successfully completed on 16 September 2022 and Nationwide 
paid him the incentive of £100. 
Mr J visited Nationwides website around a month later and noticed that the incentive 
payment had increased to £200. Unhappy with this, Mr J raised a complaint. Nationwide said 
they hadnt made a bank error as the new incentive was introduced on 3 October 2022 
which was a month after Mr J started his switch on 3 September 2022. 
Nationwide explained their staff arent advised before new offers go live and they dont often 
find out until the same day as their members do, so they arent able to hold new applications 
to ensure they benefit from new offers. And this applied to all their savings products and 
mortgage rates too. They said they try to regularly increase rates or offer new products to 
keep up with the market, but they cant delay applications in anticipation of potential new 
offers and rates. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. He explained the switch offer had a guarantee to 
cover him if the offer changed. He believes he was well within the timescales of the 
guarantee and Nationwide didnt take this into consideration. 
Our investigator said that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly as Mr Js current account switch 
was completed before the new incentive was announced and came into effect. He also didnt 
think there was a guarantee which ensured Mr Js award would be raised if the offer was 
increased at a later date. Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the Current Account Online Switch Offer at the time of Mr Js 
application (3 September 2022) explains that Nationwide would pay him £100 for switching 
his current account, providing he met the all the requirements set out.
Mr Js current account switch to Nationwide was successfully completed on 16 September 
2022. And Nationwide paid the incentive of £100 on 20 September 2022. This is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the current account online switch offer Mr J had signed up to.
I can understand Mr Js disappointment that Nationwide launched a higher incentive 
payment shortly after his switch was completed. And I dont doubt Mr J when he says that 
hed have waited to switch his account if he was aware of the new increased incentive offer. 
However, I dont think this means Nationwide have treated Mr J unfairly. Nationwide as a 
business are entitled to introduce new offers and incentives at any time. And on 3 October 
2022, they decided to increase the incentive for the current account online switch offer from 
£100 to £200. 
This is a legitimate business decision that Nationwide can make to attract new customers. 
And they werent obliged to extend this offer to Mr J, given that it wasnt available to him at 
the time of his application which was a month prior to them launching the increased offer.
Ive also looked at the term which Mr J has pointed out to, that he believes provides him a 
guarantee to cover him if the offer changed:
Will the offer be withdrawn?
We may change, replace or withdraw this offer at any time. If we do this and youve 
already requested a switch, youll still be eligible for the offer so long as:
 The switch completes within 30 days of you requesting it;
 You meet all of the requirements set out in these terms and conditions, and none of 
the exclusions apply.
Mr J accepts that this means that if the offer had reduced, he would still have been eligible 
for £100. But he feels the wording reasonably means that if the offer increased during the 30 
day period, then the increase would also apply to him.
Im afraid I dont agree. As explained above, the incentive Mr J signed up to was for 
Nationwide to pay him £100 for completing a current account switch. I think the term Mr J 
has referred to clearly explains that if Nationwide changes, replaces or withdraws the offer, 
then he will still be eligible to receive the offer, i.e. the £100 incentive, which he signed up for 
as long as he met the two conditions set out above. 
I dont think the term implies or can reasonably be interpreted that Mr J had a 30 day 
guarantee to cover him if the offer increased. Instead, the conditions reference to 30 days is 
the timescale that Mr J had for the switch to be completed from the date of requesting it to 
be eligible for the offer hed signed up for  not for a different offer  whether favourable or 
not.
While I appreciate Mr J feels strongly about his complaint, Im satisfied Nationwide havent 
done anything wrong here. They paid Mr J the incentive of £100 in line with the terms and 
conditions of the offer hed signed up for. So, I wont be asking them to do anything to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 Ash Weedon
Ombudsman