DRN-2539655
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with PSA Finance 
UK Limited (PSA) has not been of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PSA, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here 
was around three years old and had completed about 30,550 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if the engine failed after only about seven months.
Ive considered the detailed independent inspection report that has been provided and I 
understand the expert inspector has explained that he doesnt think there is evidence the 
engine was faulty when the car was supplied to Mr P.
But the relevant legislation also asks me to consider whether the car has been suitably 
durable, and I dont think that can be the case here. I think a reasonable person would 
expect an engine to last much longer than 39,000 miles. 
I understand the inspectors view that cold starts may have made things worse when the car 
was driven to a repairer, but I dont think its fair to suggest Mr P would have known that and 
was therefore negligent when driving the car. The inspectors explanation, of why cold starts 
make the problem worse, is complex, and not information I would expect most drivers are 
aware of.
I dont think there is sufficient evidence that Mr P continued to drive a vehicle he knew had a 
fault and that he therefore made things worse and I can see the car has been fully serviced 
so, again, it seems the reason for the failure was not because Mr P hadnt looked after the 
vehicle. 
Overall, Im persuaded that the cars engine has not been suitably durable, and that PSA 
need to take some further action.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives a business an opportunity to repair a fault, so PSA should now 
do that. 
Mr P has been unable to drive the car since it failed on 9 May 2019. Its not fair for him to be 
paying for a car that he hasnt been able to drive, so PSA should refund any instalments hes 
made towards his finance agreement from that date. They should add interest to those 
repayments as Mr P has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to:
repair the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund any finance instalments Mr P has made since the car failed on 9 May 2019 
and add 8% interest to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman