DRN-2238280
The complaint
Mrs F, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was given 
unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mrs F took investment advice from Lloyds a number of times over the years. In 2003 she 
met with an adviser who assessed her as having a low attitude to risk (ATR). He advised her 
to invest £50 per month in the Corporate Bond Fund held within a Regular Savings OEIC 
Mini ISA. She decided to accept the recommendation but increased the amount invested to 
£150 per month. 
In 2005 she took further advice from Lloyds as she was looking to increase her monthly ISA 
contributions. She was assessed as having a cautious ATR and was advised to invest a 
further £50 per month in the Balanced Growth Fund. She decided to accept the 
recommendation but increased the amount invested to £100 per month and chose to invest 
in the Momentum Income Portfolio  which was recorded as being a cautious fund.
In 2009 she received some money from her pension and sought further advice from Lloyds. 
They assessed her ATR as still being cautious and advised her to invest a further £50 per 
month in a regular saving OIEC and a lump sum of £8750 in a Lump Sum OEIC ISA. Both 
amounts were invested in the same fund - the Momentum Income Portfolio. She decided to 
accept the recommendation, but again decided to increase the amount invested, this time to 
£250 per month.
In 2019 the CMC complained to Lloyds about the advice Mrs F had been given. They said, in 
summary, that around 80% of Mrs Fs contributions were invested in corporate bonds. And 
she shouldnt have had such a high proportion of her investment exposed to a single asset 
class. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators. The investigator thought the sales in 2003 and 2005 were 
broadly suitable for Mrs F but he had concerns about the 2009 sale.
He thought that given her circumstances at the time, the advice to invest £8,750 was 
unsuitable because it would have exposed too much of her capital to risk. He thought she 
should have been advised to invest in a product which didnt pose any risk to her capital and 
awarded redress accordingly. 
Lloyds accepted his findings but the CMC didnt. They reiterated that the key aspect of the 
complaint was about the advice to invest such a high proportion of Mrs F's money in a single 
asset class - corporate bonds. The investigator considered what theyd said but thought that 
the holdings within the ISA were held between many different companies and therefore 
suitably diversified. 
The CMC still didnt accept his findings and pointed to an index that this service uses as a 
benchmark for investors with a higher risk profile than Mrs F. They said that within this index 
only 71% of its holdings were in a single asset class yet around 80% of Mrs Fs portfolio was 
concentrated in corporate bonds.
As theres been no agreement the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the outcome that the investigator has come to. I will now 
explain why. 
The 2003 sale
In 2003 Mrs F was aged 54, owned her own home with no mortgage, was employed full time 
with a net monthly income of around £1,200 and a monthly disposable income of around 
£625. She had savings of around £16,000 and investments worth around £12,000 (£5,500 in 
a maxi equity ISA, £6,000 in an investment bond and £750 in a PEP). I think the advice to 
invest £50 per month was suitable for her circumstances at the time given her holdings, 
monthly disposable income and previous investment experience.
The 2005 sale
In 2005 Mrs F is recorded as still having the same employment and homeowner status, 
having a net monthly income of £862 and a disposable income of around £550. She had 
around £2,300 on deposit and £12,000 in an OEIC which was invested in an adventurous 
fund. Whilst she had less capital than 2003 and less income, she still had a healthy 
disposable income each month. Therefore, I think the advice to invest £50 per month into a 
cautious fund was suitable for her circumstances at the time.
The 2009 sale
In 2009 Mrs Fs circumstances had changed. She was now retired and was receiving income 
of around £1,470 per month with a monthly disposable income of around £400. She had 
around £15,000 on deposit and around £17,600 in investments (£13,000 in adventurous 
investments and approximately £4,600 in cautious investments).
Given her considerable investment experience by this point, I think a recommendation to 
invest a further £50 per month into a cautious fund was suitable. But I agree with the 
investigator that the lump sum investment of £8,750 was unsuitable. I say this because she 
had a very limited capacity to make up any losses given that she was now retired. It must 
also be taken into account that she held a large proportion of her available capital  around 
40% - in adventurous investments. Therefore, she shouldnt have been advised to expose 
another £8,750 to investment risk. 
Lack of diversification 
The CMC has made the argument that too much of Mrs Fs capital was held in one asset 
class. I appreciate their point, but in my opinion, the Corporate Bond Fund and Momentum 
Income Fund were in line with Mrs Fs ATR and overall investment objectives.There isnt much information available about the Corporate Bond Fund but from what Ive 
seen it was mainly invested in UK and European corporate bonds and fixed interest 
securities. The Momentum Income Fund was made up of 15% equity funds and 85% bond 
finds  a mixture of corporate and international bonds. I think a key factor I need to consider 
is Mrs Fs other investments. 
At each point of advice she held at least £12,000 in investments - a PEP, Investment Bond 
and Maxi Equity ISA in 2003, and what were classed as adventurous investments in 2005 
and 2009. She also had savings of £12,000 in 2003, £2,300 in 2005 and £15,000 in 2009.
Taking everything into account, advice to invest an affordable monthly contribution into funds 
which were made up of a wide range of different corporate bonds and other fixed interest 
securities doesnt seem unsuitable. Given Mrs Fs circumstances, and in particular the sums 
invested, Im satisfied the recommendations provided sufficient diversification to her existing 
holdings. This is, of course, with the exception of the lump sum investment of £8,750 for the 
reasons Ive previously explained.
Putting things right
  Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs F 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs F's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Lloyds do?
To compensate Mrs F fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mrs F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Momentum 
Income 
Fund - 
2009 lump 
sum 
investmenttransferredaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Lloyds totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mrs F wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs F's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs F would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. My decision is that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay the amount calculated as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman