DRN-3019546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building Society did not inform them that their large
Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS) payment had been delayed.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs G attempted to make a seven figure payment to their son to help him buy a
house. They attempted to make this payment on Friday 13 November 2020 at 13:41 to reach
his account that day. Mr and Mrs G received a call from their son on Monday 16 November,
who informed them that he hadnt received the funds.
Mrs G says she contacted Nationwide and spoke to three people before finding out that the
payment had been delayed due to checks by Nationwides fraud team. The call handler
explained to Mrs G that the payment had been authorised by the fraud department just
before 5pm but they didnt have time to process the payment before they closed.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Nationwide. They said that they had incurred costs of £240
because they werent informed that the funds were delayed, so they had to contact the
solicitor to change the date that they would receive the funds for the property purchase.
They also said they were told incorrect information on the phone calls.
Nationwide partially upheld Mr and Mrs G complaint. They said that while they hadnt made
an error with the CHAPS payment, the service on the calls wasnt as they expected, so they
awarded Mr and Mrs G £80 compensation. They also said they would refund the £20
CHAPS fee as the payment wasnt made on the same day. Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied
with the outcome, so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that the fraud department had
allowed the payment to be processed at 16:58 but it was unable to be processed by the
17:00 deadline. This meant the payment was processed the next working day  Monday 16
November. Our investigator said that Nationwide did not breach their terms and conditions
as they explain they may need to carry out additional checks which could delay a payment
being made.
Mr and Mrs G asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of
points including that Nationwide had breached their terms and conditions as they didnt
inform them of a delay and that an internet search states that CHAPS payments are
guaranteed to be made on the same day.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have made a number of points to both Nationwide and this service and Ive
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role
as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats
fair and reasonable here.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions in great detail. The condition which Mr and Mrs G feel
that Nationwide breached is the following: To meet legal and regulatory requirements, we
(and any financial institutions we may use to help us make the payment) may carry out
checks before payments are made or incoming payments are applied to your account with a
view to preventing financial crime. Occasionally this may lead to a delay in a payment being
sent or applied to your account. In some circumstances we may not be able to make the
payment or apply an incoming payment to your account. We will always tell you if this is the
case unless it would be unlawful to do so. We will not be responsible for any loss that results
from this.
Im satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to make extra checks to make sure the payment
wasnt fraudulent. And this is what I would expect them to do for a seven figure payment,
regardless of if this was a payment to another Nationwide account or not. But the terms and
conditions above does state that they will always tell the member if there is a delay in the
payment being sent unless it is unlawful to do so. So Ive considered whether it would have
been unlawful for them to do so. But Im not persuaded it would have been unlawful and Ill
explain why.
The fraud department had cleared the payment as a legitimate payment at 16:58. So, as
they allowed the payment to be processed, Im not persuaded it would have been unlawful to
inform Mr and Mrs G that their payment would be delayed until Monday as there simply
wasnt enough time to process the payment within the two minute window they had to do so.
I queried this with Nationwide who consulted with their legal department. Nationwide said
that a message shouldve been sent about the delay, but there were extenuating
circumstances why it was not, namely the time constraints. They also highlighted that the
delay in terms of business time was not a long delay. They say this as they were able to
process the payment at 16:58 on 13 November, but as the weekends dont count as working
days, then the payment was actually processed on 16 November at 09:08  10 working
minutes after they were allowed to process the payment by the fraud department.
While Im persuaded that in business time, there wasnt a long delay of processing the
payment, Im also satisfied that the terms and conditions are clear that they would inform a
member if there was a delay in processing the payment. So although there was only a ten
minute business delay, Mr and Mrs G had not been alerted to the fact this payment had
been delayed.
I know Mr and Mrs G feel that Nationwide should pay them £240 for the costs that they
incurred. But the same condition of the account is clear that Nationwide will not be
responsible for any loss that results from this. So I am unable to ask Nationwide to pay any
losses that Mr and Mrs G have suffered due to them not being informed of the delay. But as
Nationwide did not follow their procedure here then Im persuaded that this will have caused
a level of inconvenience and distress for Mr and Mrs G. I say this as although Nationwide
processed the payment on Monday morning, Mr and Mrs G had no message from
Nationwide to explain that there had been a delay in payment. And when Mr and Mrs Gs
son informed them that he hadnt received the funds this will have unnecessarily distressed
Mr and Mrs G. They had to contact Nationwide and speak to a number of people to see what
had happened. This would have been avoided if they were told that there payment had been
delayed on Friday (or possibly even first thing Monday morning).
Im aware that Nationwide have already paid Mr and Mrs G £80 for poor service that Mrs G
received on the calls. But Im persuaded that further compensation should be awarded to Mrand Mrs G. I say this as the previous compensation was paid in relation to what Mrs G was
told on the calls, not for the fact that she had to ring up and query where the funds were or to
compensate Mr and Mrs G for Nationwide not following their procedure of informing a
member of a delay to a payment. Nationwide have said to me that they should have received
a message regarding the delay. Given the size of the payment, this would have been very
worrying for Mr and Mrs G.
I know Mr and Mrs G feel that the payment shouldve been made on the same day and have
provided us with an internet search with this information. But Nationwide are very clear that
there are instances which would prevent this from happening.
So I must stress that the only error Ive seen here (apart from the incorrect information on
the phone calls which Mr and Mrs G have already been compensated for) is Nationwide not
informing Mr and Mrs G that the payment was delayed. And although the message wouldnt
have ensured the payment was made any quicker, Nationwide had a duty, based on their
terms and conditions to ensure that they sent this message to Mr and Mrs G, regardless of
any extenuating circumstances. So Im persuaded that it would be fair Nationwide to pay Mr
and Mrs G £75 for the inconvenience and distress of failing to follow their procedure for the
reasons Ive already given.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs G said they were 
pleased that their complaint had been provisionally upheld. They also made a number of 
points regarding Nationwide including a clause in their terms and conditions that they wont 
be held responsible for any costs of any delay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs G have said regarding the terms and conditions of the 
account stating Nationwide will not be responsible for any loss as a result of a delay in 
informing them the payment is delayed. But as they will have accepted the terms and 
conditions when submitting the CHAPS payment, I am unable to ask Nationwide to pay any
losses that Mr and Mrs G have suffered due to them not being informed of the delay. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision Nationwide had a duty, based on their terms and 
conditions to ensure that they sent this message to Mr and Mrs G, regardless of any 
extenuating circumstances. So I am persuaded that they should pay Mr and Mrs G 
compensation here. But my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs G £75 for 
the inconvenience and distress of Nationwide failing to follow their procedure. Im still 
satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs G £75.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman