DRN-3870481
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss W opened a shopping account with Studio in March 2019. Her account had an initial 
limit of £150 which was increased on five later occasions, eventually reaching £700 in 
November 2021.
 
Miss W says that Studio shouldnt have lent to her. She says that she was in financial 
difficulty and Studio should have done more to find out if the credit was affordable for her. 
Studio says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss W  and when it increased 
her credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Miss W was in an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) when she took out the credit which indicates that she 
wasnt able to sustainably repay her existing credit. 
Our investigator said that Studio should pay back interest and charges it made as a result of 
the credit that was unfairly extended to Miss W. 
Miss W agreed with this outcome. Studio didnt agree. It said that Miss W met its lending 
criteria and none of her account activity indicated any financial pressure or material financial 
difficulty.
As Studio didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ws complaint.
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include Miss 
Ws income, her existing borrowing, the frequency of borrowing and the length of time Miss 
W had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Studio has provided a copy of the checks it did at the time it opened Miss Ws account. The 
data showed that Miss W didnt have any credit accounts in arrears and that there was no 
negative publicly recorded information, such as bankruptcy or an IVA. The checks were 
unable to verify Miss Ws declared income of £12,000 but Studio used Office of National 
Statistics data to model Miss Ws disposable income and concluded that she would have 
had £250 a month.
Studio submitted that Miss Ws application was automatically accepted. The implication by 
Studio was that if Miss Ws application was automatically accepted there was nothing in its 
automatic checks which caused concern and therefore its checks were proportionate. Studio 
says it balanced the negative information against the positive information it held.
However, Studio wasnt able to verify Miss Ws address with its checks. And there were 
other concerning indicators; Miss W was relatively highly indebted and seemed to have at 
least a month of arrears on another credit account. Miss W had five other revolving credit 
accounts, which I think on her relatively low income ought to have given Studio pause for 
thought. And as Studio hadnt been able to locate Miss W on the electoral roll at her 
declared address it couldnt have confidence that it had all publicly available information to 
hand when it made its decision to lend to her.
 
I think Studio ought to have done more to establish that Miss W could repay the borrowing 
sustainably. I dont think it conducted reasonable and proportionate checks. While I cant 
know for certain what further checks would have shown in practice, I am satisfied that Miss 
Ws absence from the electoral roll was something it could query relatively easily and quickly 
by asking Miss W about previous addresses. Had it done so, it would have become aware of 
an IVA registered at another address which was still active at the point of her application. 
And I can see that two months after account opening, Studio had more complete information 
which it didnt have at the point Miss W applied for the account and this indicated she was at 
risk of financial difficulties. I think if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks at 
the time of account opening this same information would have been available to it (although 
it did not prevent Studio providing a credit limit increase of £50 the following month). 
An IVA is an arrangement used as a last resort for someone in financial difficulties. To enter 
into such an arrangement Miss W would have had a full assessment of her income and 
expenditure to work out how much she could pay to creditors and over what period. Any 
additional borrowing during the IVA is unlikely to have been affordable without a significant 
change in circumstances and I havent seen anything to suggest this was the case with Miss 
W.
I think reasonable and proportionate checks would have revealed Miss Ws IVA and would 
have demonstrated to Studio that Miss W was unlikely to be able to make sustainable 
repayments on any additional credit. I think Miss W lost out as a result  by paying interest 
and charges on the lending. So, I think Studio acted unfairly when it lent to Miss W. 
In relation to Miss Ws subsequent credit limit increases, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Miss Ws financial circumstances improved significantly in the intervening periods. I am 
not satisfied that the credit limit increases were affordable or the repayments sustainable 
either.  Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Studio to refund any interest and charges incurred by Miss 
W as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. Therefore, Studio should rework the 
account and:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Miss W has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Studio should reduce the capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Studio should ensure 
that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if step 2 leads 
to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Miss W and 
8% simple interest * should be added to the surplus. 
4. Studio should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Studio Retail Limited acted unfairly when it extended credit to Miss W. To put this right 
I direct Studio Limited to pay compensation as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman