DRN-1065362
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) hasnt let her withdraw the 
funds noted in the passbook that is connected to her savings account. 
What happened
Miss Bs savings account was opened by her father and on 4 April 1979 £100 was 
deposited. The £100 deposit is noted in the passbook. 
Last year, the passbook was found and Miss B contacted NS&I and asked for her money. 
After the necessary forms were completed NS&I paid Miss B £58.54 as a closing balance. 
Miss B complained and NS&I responded on 16 July 2019. NS&I apologised because it didnt 
call Miss B back as promised. NS&I also said the passbook wasnt up to date and that the 
closing balance it had paid her was correct. Miss B referred her complaint to our service and 
it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought NS&I had dealt with Miss Bs 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss B didnt agree with the investigator 
so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss B has some concerns. She has a printed passbook that says 
NS&I has held £100 for her in an interest paying account for around 30 years. I appreciate 
Miss B doesnt recall withdrawing funds, but  I have to take the evidence provided by both 
sides into account when making a decision. 
The evidence provided by NS&I is strong. It contains systems information showing the 
account movement and history going back to the start of 1997. At that point there was a 
balance of £524.04. Interest payments were added which increased the balance to £581.43 
on 23 April 1998. 
The information provided shows that between 23 April 1998 and 10 June 1998 a total of 
£550 was withdrawn from the account leaving a balance of £29.14. Over years that followed 
the account balance increased when interest was added, taking the final amount to £58.54. 
I note that NS&Is evidence shows it sent out another passbook for this account on 28 
January 1997. So whilst I understand Miss B has located a passbook from 1979 that says 
£100 was deposited for her, Im satisfied a new passbook was issued in 1997. The new 
passbook took the place of the existing passbook. So I wouldnt expect the passbook Miss B 
has found to contain details of the transactions that took place after the replacement was 
issued. 
NS&I also says that the funds were withdrawn as cash in a Post Office branch. 
Unfortunately, its not now possible to say what branch was used. But NS&I has confirmed 
that for a withdrawal to take place identification had to be provided. I know Miss B has concerns that NS&I may not have followed the right approach. But Im satisfied that its 
unlikely NS&I would have approved four separate withdrawals without being satisfied they 
were correctly authorised. 
Its clear the account was used in the period after that shown in Miss Bs passbook. I 
appreciate Miss B is disappointed that there is less money in her savings account than 
expected. But Im satisfied NS&I hasnt made any mistakes in this case and that the closing 
balance it paid Miss B was correct. 
NS&I apologised for not calling Miss B back as promised and paid her £30. I think that fairly 
reflects the impact of not being called back and is a reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent found anything to show NS&I has made a 
mistake when calculating the closing balance of her account. Im satisfied the £30 NS&I has 
paid Miss B is fair in all the circumstances, so Im not telling it to take any further action to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman