DRN-3854547
The complaint
Miss C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include call-
handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2010. Miss C acquired it in or before October 2019. In early February 2022, the vehicle 
passed an MOT test, with a recorded mileage of about 130,000.
Through a broker, Miss C had a comprehensive policy to cover the car for the year from 
early March 2022.
There was a bank holiday weekend in late April and early May 2022. On the Saturday 
evening, Miss C reported that an unknown driver had caused damage to the car in an 
incident on a roundabout. 
After contacting the broker and Aviva and having conversations that she found 
unsatisfactory, Miss C arranged some repairs to make the car roadworthy.
Miss C complained to the broker and brought that complaint to us.
Through us, Miss C also complained to Aviva that it had told her the car was a write-off so it 
wouldnt provide a courtesy car. She also complained that Aviva couldnt even verify that she 
had a policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Aviva had made any errors in the way it had handled the claim.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Aviva said that due to the system declaring her car a write off without inspection, 
Aviva wouldnt provide a courtesy car.
The different companies involved blamed each other and didnt even document 
things correctly. They made it impossible for her to claim on her policy. 
The broker caused all of this by not confirming her policy until 2 weeks later when 
she had already been forced to complete repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Aviva has said, it had given the broker authority to issue policies in Avivas name, 
without giving Aviva details unless and until a policyholder made a claim.
Avivas policy terms included the following: 
Courtesy cars
The courtesy or hire carcannot be provided until your claim has been accepted and 
cover has been confirmed
If your car cannot be repaired or it is stolen, a hire car will be provided for up to 14 
days, or until you receive your settlement (whichever is earliest)
If your car is immobile or unroadworthy , we aim to provide a courtesy or hire car 
within one working day. If an incident occurs during a weekend or on a bank/public 
holiday, it may not be possible to provide a courtesy or hire car until the following 
normal working day
I consider that this meant that Aviva would provide a hire car if it accepted the claim and 
decided that the car was beyond economic repair (a total loss).
From Avivas file, I see that any claim would be subject to an excess of £200.00.
Also, Miss C had about 12 years no-claims discount (NCD). As her NCD was 
unprotected, any claim would result in the discount being stepped back (and her premium 
increased for following years).
Aviva has said that it has a tool to assess whether a vehicle is likely to be written off as a 
total loss. Avivas note of Miss Cs call on the Saturday said that her vehicle was a potential 
total loss, subject to an inspection. Aviva hasnt provided a call recoding and it was dealing 
with a vehicle with an age over ten years and a mileage over 100,000. So I prefer Miss Cs 
recollection that Aviva said the vehicle would be a write-off.
Ive seen many motor policies that dont provide a courtesy car in the event of a total loss. 
And Miss C reported the incident out of normal working hours. So I accept her statement that 
Aviva told her that it wouldnt provide a courtesy car or hire car because her car was a total 
loss. That was incorrect.
However, I keep in mind the policy term about courtesy cars, which Ive quoted above. I 
dont find it likely that Aviva couldve accepted the claim and provided a hire car until after 
the bank holiday. And on Tuesday 3 May 2022 Miss C contacted Aviva again.
From Avivas file note dated that day, I find that the broker couldnt confirm that Miss C had a 
policy. Also, Miss C asked about her NCD. So Aviva had to refer her back to the broker. 
Between Miss C and Aviva, matters were left on the basis that she might not wish to claim 
but would get in touch if she did. 
Miss C says that it had become impossible for her to make a claim. However, I dont find that 
Aviva was waiting for the broker to confirm cover. Rather, I find that Miss C was concerned 
about the consequences of making a claim, including the excess, the writing-off of her car 
and the stepping-back of her NCD. 
On 9 May 2022, the broker emailed Miss C confirming cover. She replied the same 
afternoon including the following: Aviva also called you themselves on 3rd May to verify my policy, as they were going 
to arrange the repairs because you had not called me back (as arranged from my call 
to you on 30th April ) and you informed THEM TOO that I do not have a policy with 
you. I have now had to resort to paying for the repairs myself as it has taken you over 
a week to even respond to me and my car was off the road.
So Miss C was saying that Aviva had been going to arrange repairs. I dont think Miss C was 
correct. I consider that she knew that Aviva would write her car off rather than repair it. So, 
without contacting Aviva again, she had already arranged some repairs by 9 May 2022. 
Miss C contacted Aviva again on about 10 May 2022. She told us the following:
It was at this point I told them I would not continue with a claim that I had already 
part paid for and that I would raise a complaint.
Avivas note of that call also says that Miss C wasnt pursuing a claim.
The investigators opinion said that Miss C could still make a claim  but she has been 
reluctant to do so. Therefore I conclude that it was Miss Cs decision not to pursue a claim. 
So I dont find Aviva responsible for paying for repairs of the vehicle as Miss C asks (or by 
paying the pre-accident value of the vehicle).
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman