DRN-2209663
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, blocked and then closed his account. Hes also 
unhappy that Lloyds didnt tell him it intended to log information about him with CIFAS, the 
UKs fraud alert service. And didnt tell him about payments which debited his account after it 
had closed his account. Mr D also complains about how Lloyds handled things. 
What happened
Mr D had an account with Lloyds. In May 2019, £500 was paid into Mr Ds account.  Mr D 
withdrew the funds the same day at a cash machine.
Lloyds later received notification from another bank that the money had been obtained 
fraudulently and paid into Mr Ds account. Lloyds reviewed Mr Ds account and blocked the 
account whilst it carried out the review. Mr D says the block to his account caused him a 
great deal of inconvenience as he was unable to pay for everyday expenses.
Following its review Lloyds decided to close Mr Ds account and gave him 60 days notice. 
Mr D withdrew his balance on 31 July 2019.  After it had closed several transactions that Mr 
D had made prior to closure, debited his account. Lloyds asked Mr D to repay the debt. Mr D 
says Lloyds never explained to him how he came to owe the bank money after his account 
had been closed, which he found upsetting and stressful. Mr D says Lloyds didnt explain 
things to him until after he repaid the money in November 2019.
Mr D told Lloyds that the £500 had paid into his account by someone who was repaying 
money hed lent to them. He gave evidence to support what hed said which included text 
and social media messages between him and the person whod paid the money into his 
account. Mr D maintained that he hadnt known the money was fraudulent. Lloyds said it had 
intended to apply a CIFAS marker against Mr Ds name. Mr D says Lloyds should have told 
him about its intention to load him to CIFAS. And its not fair that banks should be able to 
record information with CIFAS without telling people.
Mr D also says Lloyd didnt respond to complaints he made in July and August 2019 about 
what had happened with his account. Mr D says this all caused him a great deal of distress 
and inconvenience. Hes said he had to take days off work to try and sort things out with the 
bank. He wants Lloyds to pay him £500 compensation. 
Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ds account. It also 
said it had explained to Mr D about the money he owed long before November 2019. And 
had dealt with his complaint properly. Mr D disagreed. So, he brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr D unfairly. Her said Lloyds werent 
obliged to tell Mr D about the CIFAS marker and hadnt done anything wrong when it 
blocked and closed his account. He also said Mr D hadnt disputed making the transactions 
that had debited his account after it had closed. And that Lloyds had clearly explained to him 
why hed owed the money. He also said Lloyds had addressed his complaint and issued a 
final response letter to him in October 2019. Mr D disagreed. He says Lloyds treated him 
unfairly, so he wants compensation
.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with Lloyds decision to block Mr Ds account. All banks in the UK are strictly 
regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. 
Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. 
That sometimes means banks need to review and sometimes block customers accounts. 
Lloyds blocked Mr Ds access to his account while it investigated the concerns expressed to 
it by the other bank. Having looked at all the available information I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Lloyds to have acted in the way it did. Lloyds 
explained that this was its standard procedure and its in line with what most banks would do 
in the same situation. It enabled Lloyds to consider how best to react to the report it had 
received. The terms and conditions of Mr Ds accounts also permit Lloyds to review an 
account. Lloyds was also within its rights to close Mr Ds account and did so in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say it has treated Mr D unfairly.
Mr D says he doesnt understand how transactions were made on his account after it had 
closed. And that Lloyds didnt explain anything to him about how he came to owe the bank 
money. Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statements and can see that Mr D made several 
transactions between 21 and 23 July 2019 totalling £47.33, which put Mr Ds account 
overdrawn because Mr D had withdrawn his remaining balance on 31 July 2019. Mr D 
doesnt dispute making these transactions. So, the bank didnt do anything wrong when it 
asked him to repay the debt  this was money he owed the bank.  
I can understand why Mr D may have been confused that transactions were still debiting his 
account after it had been closed by Lloyds. But at the time Mr Ds account closed the 
transactions were still pending and didnt debit Mr Ds account until 7 August 2019, so after it 
had closed. From looking at the banks contact notes, I can see that Lloyds explained this to 
Mr D in phone calls on 18 and 30 September 2019. And on 5 October 2019. So, I dont 
agree he wasnt made aware why he owed the bank money until November 2019. Im 
satisfied that he knew much earlier. And that Lloyds explained how this had happened.
As Mr D had received fraudulent funds into his account, Lloyds initially intended to record 
information about Mr D with CIFAS. Mr D says Lloyds should have told him about its 
intentions. But as the investigator has explained, Lloyds wasnt obliged to notify Mr D if it 
recorded information about him with CIFAS. So, I cant say Lloyds have done anything 
wrong by not informing Mr D of its intentions. 
Finally, Mr D is unhappy about the way Lloyds handled his complaint. I appreciate Mr D feels 
that Lloyds werent listening to him and should have wrote to him each time he raised a 
complaint point, but our service only has the power to consider a complaint if it falls within 
certain criteria set out in our case-handling rules. These can be found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. And complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So, I cant look into this further. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient and upsetting for Mr D when Lloyds 
blocked and closed his account. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe 
Lloyds acted inappropriately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman