DRN-1426964
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains about incorrect information she was given by Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(trading as Tesco Bank) about her account.
What happened
Mrs L contacted Tesco Bank by telephone in June 2019 to pay off her statement balance of 
around £450. She wanted to repay this amount to avoid paying interest. 
Tescos telephone representative gave Mrs L incorrect information saying her balance was 
around £800, which was the balance of the account on the day she called, rather than the 
statement balance. Mrs L called back the same day and was given the correct information. 
At that time, Tesco Bank also refunded the £800 payment to Mrs L.
Tesco Bank received another payment from Mrs L a few days later for the statement 
balance. However, it was received the day after her payment was due. This meant that a 
charge and interest were automatically applied to the account and a letter was automatically 
generated to inform Mrs L of the charge.
Tesco Bank has acknowledged it made a mistake. It waived the charge and interest that was 
added to the account. And it paid her a total of £80 compensation for the upset and 
confusion it had caused her along with a bunch of flowers and apology card.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that Tesco Bank increase its 
compensation to £150. She said that Tesco Bank had put Mrs L back in the position she 
would have been in by refunding the charge and interest. But she believed the compensation 
should be increased to reflect the level of upset the incident caused Mrs L.
Both parties disagreed with our investigator. Tesco Bank said it believed £80 was enough 
compensation and Mrs L didnt think £150 was enough compensation for the upset the 
situation had caused her. As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Neither party disagrees about whats happened. And Tesco Bank has refunded the interest 
and charges Mrs L incurred as a result of this mistake, so she hasnt lost out on any money 
because of this mistake. So, the only issue left for me to decide is whether the compensation 
Tesco Bank has offered is enough. Mrs L hasnt told us what she would like Tesco Bank to 
do to put things right, but Ive considered what I think is fair and reasonable in this case.Its clear from Mrs Ls conversations with both Tesco Bank and this service that this issue 
caused her a great deal of upset. Mrs L says she has never defaulted on payments and was 
particularly upset to receive a letter saying she had, as many customers would be. Tesco 
Bank has also acknowledged to this service that its agent didnt handle the call well and 
caused confusion. Tesco has acknowledged to this service that Mrs L became very upset 
and distressed on the call.
Tesco Bank has recognised that it made a mistake and ensured that it put things right. I can 
see Tesco Bank also sent Mrs L flowers as a gesture of goodwill. But overall, and given how 
upset Mrs L was at the situation, I think compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs L has told us that she believes the compensation should be higher. But I should explain 
that our role isnt to punish Tesco Bank for the mistake it made  rather to compensate her 
for the upset and inconvenience that was caused.
I can see Tesco Bank acknowledged its mistake and rectified it quickly. It let Mrs L know the 
outcome of its investigation promptly, so she was clear on what was happening with her 
account and appears to have placed a marker on the account to ensure no further charges 
or interest were added mistakenly after realising what had happened. So, while I do think 
Mrs L was caused upset by this mistake, I also think Tesco has attempted to put things right 
quickly. So overall, I think £150 is enough to recognise the impact of Tesco Banks mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should pay Mrs L a total of £150 
compensation which should include the £80 it has already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman