DRN-3615583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property. 
To settle the complaint they would like Santander to reimburse the early repayment charge 
(ERC) of £25,847.30 they paid on redeeming the mortgage. 
Mr F has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of both parties.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in the investigators 
letter dated 20 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to 
repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In 
addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs F being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
In 2006, on the advice of their mortgage broker, Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with 
Santander for £485,000. A further £100,000 was taken out on a non-advised basis in 2007. 
Over the years the mortgage has been re-arranged onto new interest rate products, with a 
five-year product switch having been taken out in August 2015.
On 24 August 2020, when the mortgage was about to revert to Santanders standard 
variable rate, Mr F spoke to Santander about additional lending but was told this was outside 
Santanders lending criteria due to the number of buy-to-let (BTL) properties Mr F owned. 
Santander said it would take into account rental income from commercial property, but that it 
would only permit new lending where the borrowers owned five other properties or fewer, 
with total mortgage borrowing on those properties not exceeding£150,000. Mr F said he 
would speak to his mortgage broker, but wanted to secure a new deal and was keen to avoid 
any that might come with an ERC. Mr F was told what products were available at that date, 
but Santander said this was subject to change.
A few days later, on 1 September 2020, after taking advice from their mortgage broker, 
Mr and Mrs F took out a new fixed-rate product. This was for a total of £521,946 on an 
interest-only basis, over a term of 5 years 7 months, at a fixed rate of 1.39% until 
2 November 2025. If the mortgage was repaid in full or in part (other than permitted 
overpayments of up to 10% of the balance per year), an ERC of 5% of the amount repaid 
would be charged.
The mortgage offer also said:
You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. You must meet 
conditions set out in the mortgage conditions under Transferring your loan to a new 
mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability 
assessment at the time.
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs F decided to move house and wanted to port their mortgage 
interest rate product onto another Santander mortgage on their new property. However, 
because Mr and Mrs F owned more than five BTL properties with mortgages exceeding 
£150,000, the application couldnt proceed because it was outside Santanders lending 
criteria.
Mr and Mrs F complained but Santander didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response 
letter Santander explained that it had been established that Mr and Mrs F owned twelve 
rental properties, nine of which were mortgaged, and three of which had been purchased 
within the previous year. As a result, the application didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs F went ahead with their sale and purchase, taking out a mortgage with a new 
lender and redeeming their Santander mortgage on 28 June 2021. They paid an ERC of 
£25,847.30.
A complaint was raised with the Financial Ombudsman Service, but our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She was satisfied that Santander hadnt declined the application on an affordability 
basis, but because there were other criteria  the number of other properties Mr and Mrs F 
owned  which meant the application fell outside of its lending criteria.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some further points, 
which I summarise below:
Given that he had already asked Santander about increasing the borrowing and fixing a 
rate with no ERC, he thinks Santander had an absolute duty of care to explain that, if 
they should move, the ERC on a fixed rate would be payable because they wouldnt be 
able to port the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F do not recall receiving the product switch offer dated 1 September 2020.
Mr F wants to know when Santanders lending criteria changed from the criteria that was 
in place when the mortgage was originally taken out in 2006.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr F and Santander on 24 August 2020, 
and, as I said at the outset, the investigator set out the chronology of events in her letter 
dated 20 May 2022, so I dont need to repeat that here.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. 
Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So 
although Ive noted the questions which Mr F would like answered, its not my role to put 
those questions to Santander or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
I think it is unlikely that Santanders 2006 lending criteria was the same as it was in 2020. 
The financial crash of 2008 resulted in lenders adopting a more stringent approach to risk, which they were required to put in place by the regulator. So although Ive noted what Mr F 
has said about the lending criteria when he and Mrs F took the mortgage out in 2006, this 
isnt relevant to the criteria Santander had in place in 2020, because market conditions and 
attitude to risk were had changed from what they had been 14 years earlier.
Its important to explain here that a product switch on an existing mortgage isnt a new 
mortgage application. It doesnt require an assessment of affordability nor an application of 
lending criteria; thats only relevant when there is an application for a new mortgage. 
But where an existing mortgage interest rate product is ported, it requires a new application. 
When the old mortgage is redeemed, the ERC is paid, and the interest rate product will be 
applied to the new mortgage secured on the new property, with any ERC refunded, either in 
whole or in part, depending on whether amount of the new mortgage is the same or less 
than the previous mortgage. 
Mr F has told us that he never received the product switch offer dated 1 September 2020. I 
see that this was addressed to him and Mrs F at their (then) home address and so it is 
reasonable to assume that it was delivered. But in any event, the broker would (or should) 
also have provided Mr and Mrs F with a product illustration setting out full details of the new 
product before they went ahead with it. Santander is not to blame if the broker failed to do 
so. Thats something Mr F will need to take up with that party. 
Mr F suggests Santander owed him a duty of care when he spoke to the bank on 24 August 
2020 to explain that, if he took out a new interest rate product with no additional borrowing, 
he wouldnt be able to have a like-for-like port onto a new property. I disagree, for the 
following reasons. 
During the call with Santander on 24 August 2020, Mr F only discussed borrowing an 
additional £100,000 in order to build an extension and a new kitchen on the property he and 
Mrs F already lived in. There was never any mention that he was considering moving home. 
In addition, Mr F said, after discussing the only products Santander had with no ERC (two 
tracker rates and Santanders follow-on rate) that he would need to speak to a broker, 
because he thought we could probably process with another lender.
Santander wasnt asked to provide Mr and Mrs F with advice on the product switch they took 
out in September 2020, and it didnt do so. I dont know what Mr and Mrs F discussed with 
their broker. Therefore, I dont know why, when Mr F had asked Santander on 24 August 
2020 about products with no ERC, the new Santander product taken out on the advice of the 
broker a week later was for a five-year fixed rate with a substantial ERC. Presumably the 
broker thought that this was the most suitable product for them; otherwise Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have been advised to take it out.
I also dont know if Mr and Mrs F discussed moving house and/or porting the mortgage 
product with their broker at the time of the product switch in September 2020. By this point 
Mr F already knew from his phone conversation with Santander a few days earlier that 
owning five or more additional properties with total mortgages exceeding £150,000 was 
outside Santanders lending criteria. 
If this had been mentioned, it would have been up to the broker to explain that a future port 
of the mortgage product wouldnt be possible, as this would involve a new application that 
would need to meet Santanders lending criteria  and that Mr and Mrs F didnt meet those 
criteria in relation to eligibility. 
As I say, I dont know if Mr and Mrs F discussed moving or porting with the broker. If they 
did, but were still advised to take out the five-year fixed-rate when the broker knew (or should have known) it wouldnt be portable, then thats something theyll need to raise with 
the broker. If Mr and Mrs F believe they were given unsuitable advice by their broker, thats 
not something for which Santander is responsible.
Mr Fs argument is that, where there is an application for a like-for-like port of the mortgage, 
with no additional borrowing, Santander isnt required to carry out any affordability checks 
and so the porting request should have been allowed. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) says a lender 
doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace 
an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other than for product fees) and 
no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
I agree that if there are no changes material to affordability, because of the transitional 
provisions introduced in the MCOB relating to changes to existing mortgage contracts, an 
affordability assessment wouldnt have been necessary on an application for a like-for-like 
port. I completely agree, and if that had been the only factor to be taken into consideration, I 
would be saying that Santander had acted unreasonably.
However, any application to port a mortgage product also depends on the application 
meeting other criteria in place at the time, including eligibility for a new mortgage. Santander 
is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in respect of what 
those criteria are and its appetite for exposure to risk involved in setting its lending criteria 
are clearly discretionary matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I have no 
power to interfere with.Santander has provided information about its lending and eligibility criteria. This is 
information that is also available to the broker via Santanders intermediaries portal  and is 
also accessible publicly on the internet. After considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Santander acted fairly in declining to port the mortgage product, as it fell outside Santanders 
lending criteria in relation to eligibility for a mortgage. I dont think Santander was required to 
allow a port of the mortgage product on the best interests argument, where Mr and Mrs F 
were so far outside the eligibility requirement in respect of the number of other properties 
they owned.
Overall, I find that Santander was entitled to apply the ERC in line with the contract terms 
when the mortgage was repaid. There is therefore no basis on which I can uphold this 
complaint or order Santander to reimburse the ERC. I know this isnt the outcome 
Mr and Mrs F were hoping for, and I do appreciate that the ERC was a substantial sum of 
money. But Im unable to find Santander has done anything wrong here.
I understand Mr F has now raised another complaint about whether or not the amount 
charged by Santander for the ERC was fair. That is being dealt with as a separate, new, 
complaint and I will therefore make no comment on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman