DRN-3570416
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him a 
loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr D complained to this service about two separate loans provided to him by Lloyds; both 
loans were addressed in our investigators initial view. Mr D accepted the outcome in relation 
to the first loan, taken in September 2019, so my decision only considers the second loan, 
taken in September 2020.
In addition, Mr D made a separate complaint  which was informally resolved by this 
service about his overdraft with Lloyds. Lloyds have paid compensation to Mr D in relation 
to some of this borrowing, but it is relevant to this complaint for reasons I will explain later.
Mr D took out the loan that I am considering in this decision to consolidate that overdraft with 
Lloyds. He says that if reasonable checks had been completed that Lloyds wouldnt have 
lent to him. Mr D says that he has a gambling addiction and he has used credit to support 
this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint about this loan. Mr D disagrees. He says that 
his separate complaint about the affordability and management of his overdraft was resolved 
in his favour that this logically should mean that this complaint should be upheld too  on the 
basis that if he hadnt had the unaffordable overdraft he wouldnt have taken the loan to pay 
it off.
Our investigator reviewed the points Mr D made but concluded it didnt make a difference to 
their view. As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
While this service deals with cases on their individual merits I find that the outcome of this 
case is inextricably linked with the outcome of Mr Ds other complaint about the affordability 
and continued management of his overdraft. I say this because Mr Ds loan was solely 
provided by Lloyds during Covid to help customers with large overdrafts consolidate that 
debt in a more manageable way. 
In that case Lloyds accepted that it acted unfairly when it continued charging Mr D overdraft 
fees when Mr D hadnt maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. The 
investigator thought that Lloyds should have realised that Mr D wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms from December 2019. 
Lloyds agreed to rework Mr Ds account to remove all of the interest and charges applied 
from 1 December 2019.
Mr D argues that as the loan he complains about here was taken specifically to manage his 
overdraft situation that it should effectively be dealt with in the same way as the overdraft 
and his complaint upheld about the loan.
Our investigator didnt agree with this position. They considered that as the loan was less 
expensive and would have been paid off by a set date (rather than a continuing revolving 
credit facility) that his meant the lending was not irresponsible or unaffordable. I agree with 
this position. The absence of thorough checks in this case is understandable, given that 
Lloyds were swapping a more expensive type of existing revolving credit for a cheaper type 
of borrowing which would be paid off by a set date.
The investigator also noted that Lloyds couldnt have known about other problems Mr D had 
that made the lending inadvisable  that is, his compulsive gambling. The nature of the 
consolidation loan  specifically to pay off an existing overdraft facility with Lloyds - meant 
that no credit checks were made by Lloyds as would be the case in a normal loan 
application. Again, I agree with the investigators position. 
I understand Mr Ds argument. He considers that had he not taken the loan he would have 
continued with his overdraft and Lloyds would, by now, have paid him back the interest and 
any extra charges (such as those for going over the overdraft limit) as a result of his 
complaint to this service. Instead, Mr D thinks he has been paying for a loan that includes 
interest and extra charges from that same overdraft which all parties now accept was 
extended to him unfairly from December 2019. 
However, by receiving a refund of the interest and charges in relation to his overdraft from 
December 2019 this effectively addresses the injustice from that point. The loan was paid 
straight into Mr Ds account in September 2020 to pay down his overdraft. It did not clear Mr 
Ds overdraft completely  around £500 remained. It was effectively swapping one type of 
lending for another, cheaper, type of lending. Mr Ds account has been (or will shortly be) 
reworked to remove all interest and charges. This will include any interest and charges that 
the loan paid off so Mr D will already be receiving those back through his other complaint.  
I appreciate Mr D will have been paying interest on this loan. However, if the rework of his 
overdraft results in a credit balance he will receive 8% simple interest on the credit balance. 
If there is a credit balance Mr D may choose to use this to pay off part or all of his remaining 
loan. If there is no credit balance as a result of the rework, then it means that Mr D would 
always have owed money to Lloyds irrespective of him taking out the loan. However, it 
seems he is paying less interest on the loan than on the overdraft, meaning he wont have 
lost out as a result of taking it out. 
I am satisfied that, overall, Mr D has not lost out as a result of effectively exchanging his 
rolling overdraft for a fixed-term loan at a lower interest rate. My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman