DRN-3726522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited gave them incorrect information about 
how much the legal fees would be for their equity release mortgage application. The 
illustration and mortgage offer both gave an estimated basic cost of £474, whereas the 
actual basic cost was £699.
Any reference to Quilter in this decision should be taken to mean the individual broker, or the 
company they worked for, where appropriate.
What happened
I will keep the background to this complaint brief as it is well known to both parties:
5 November 2021 Quilter issued an illustration to Mr and Mrs R.
9 November 2021 it issued its recommendation letter.
16 December 2021 the lender issued the formal mortgage offer.
22 December 2021 Mr R contacted the solicitor and following that the solicitor issued 
amended paperwork. In the covering email the contact at the solicitor said that they 
would discuss the estimated bill with its case manager and would be in touch.
23 December 2021 the solicitor sent an email to Quilter in which it said it couldnt 
discount the fee.
23 December 2021 Quilter forwarded the solicitors email to Mr and Mrs R.
20 January 2022 the mortgage completed.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Quilter, and then referred that complaint to us, that the fee was 
higher than theyd been told it would be. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. As Mr and Mrs R didnt 
agree the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling regarding this 
complaint. Id like to assure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve told us. 
Im aware Ive summarised their complaint points in less detail than they have used, but this 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Were not the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We dont 
have the power to order wider changes be made in the industry in terms of the information 
that is shown on mortgage illustrations and mortgage offers. Our role is to look at what 
happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint.
The rules and guidance for the information to be contained within mortgage illustrations and 
mortgage offers for regulated mortgage contracts is set by the FCA in The Mortgages and 
Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). The content of illustrations is 
set out in MCOB 5.6 at www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/MCOB/5/6.html.
MCOB 5.6.69 sets out what information must be provided for each fee, and says:
(6) which fees (if any) are estimated in accordance with MCOB 5.6.35 R(2) and based on 
representative information
MCOB 5.6.35 says:
(1) The APR and the total amount payable in MCOB 5.6.34 R must be calculated on the 
basis of information obtained from the customer under MCOB 5.6.6 R.
(2) Where there is a charge to be included in the APR and total amount payable and the 
precise amount of that charge is not known at the time that the illustration is provided, 
MCOB 10.3 (Formula for calculating the APR) sets out a number of relevant assumptions 
to be used. If the method for including the charge is not addressed in MCOB 10 (Annual 
Percentage Rate), the charge must be estimated based on information which is known to 
be representative of the regulated mortgage contract to which the illustration relates.
MCOB 5.6.36 says:
In relation to MCOB 5.6.35 R(2), the cost of conveyancing would be an example of a 
charge for which representative information may need to be used in the calculation of 
the APR and the total amount payable.
From this it is clear that the FCA allows the cost of conveyancing (that is the legal fee) to be 
a representative figure, rather than an exact figure for the individual solicitor that is being 
used.
Both the illustration and the mortgage offer explained the legal fee was only an estimate 
The figure quoted includes VAT and is an estimate. The actual fee may be higher or lower. 
And the recommendation letter said Your solicitor will inform you of the fees for their 
service.
Mr and Mrs R have said We feel that Quilter as agents and representative of [lender] have a 
duty of care and are responsible for giving the true figure estimate But Quilter werent 
acting as an agent or representative of the lender; Quilter were instructed by Mr and Mrs R 
to give them independent advice. Just because Quilter recommended a mortgage with this 
lender, doesnt mean Quilter was acting as the lenders agent or representative and it 
therefore had no responsibility for any act or omission on the part of the lender. 
Quilter didnt set the level of the legal fee in the mortgage illustration, and the solicitor 
explained in the email this was an indicative cost across national firms We have been 
raising the indicative costs with lenders for a while now and we just dont seem to be getting 
anywhere with it, unfortunately. In line with the SRA, all solicitors must provide an indicative 
cost for fees which are supposedly benchmarked across national firms. 
In any event, even if I were to hold Quilter liable for what happened (and to be clear, Im not 
doing so), this is what we call a misrepresentation; that is, Quilter gave incorrect information 
(that is, misrepresented the level of the legal fee) to Mr and Mrs R. When were looking at complaints about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation 
had been correct, or in a position where theyve gained from this misinformation. 
If Mr and Mrs R had been given the correct information, they would have been told the basic 
legal fee was £699 rather than £474. Mr and Mrs R were given that correct information on 
23 December 2021 so, if they werent willing to proceed on that basis, they had the option to 
withdraw from the transaction as they didnt complete until 20 January 2022. Instead they 
chose to proceed in the knowledge the fee was £699. 
Whilst they also raised a complaint, there was never any guarantee that the complaint would 
be upheld and the difference covered for them, so I cant say they only chose to proceed 
because they were certain the difference would be refunded. If Mr and Mrs R werent willing 
to pay £699 (and wouldnt have applied for this mortgage had they been aware of the true 
cost) then that was the point they needed to take action and withdraw from the application.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied it was made clear that the legal fee was only an 
estimate, that MCOB allows for the fee to be an estimate, and that Quilter wasnt responsible 
for setting the estimated figure. For all the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman