DRN-3419117
The complaint
Mr D complains that West Bay Insurance Plc didnt cover the additional hire car costs 
incurred when he claimed on his van insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in an accident in his van, so he claimed on his policy with West Bay. 
West Bay reviewed the claim and accepted it and Mr Ds van went in for repair. Due to an 
issue with the replacement parts the repair took longer than expected. Because of this Mr D 
kept the hire van hed been provided with for longer than the policy covered. West Bay said 
Mr D is responsible for these costs and invoiced him for them. Mr D wasnt happy about this 
and complained to West Bay. 
West Bay reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said Mr D had kept the hire van 
for longer than the policy so hes responsible for the additional costs. West Bay also said Mr 
D hadnt been offered a courtesy car, as he should have been, so agreed to pay £220 
towards the hire costs. Mr D didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He recognised that 
West Bay had made an error and originally agreed to 14 days hire costs when the policy 
only allowed for 7 days. However as there was an issue with getting the correct parts, he 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Mr D to be charged for the extra hire and 
recommended West Bay cover the hire costs up until the date Mr Ds van was repaired. 
However, our investigator didnt think West Bay needed to cover the remaining days 
between when Mr Ds van was repaired (13 May 2021) and when the hire van was returned 
(17 May 2021). 
West Bay didnt agree, they said it wasnt their fault there was an issue with getting the 
correct parts. They also said Mr D had incurred additional charges as there had been failed 
attempts to collect the hire van from him. 
As West Bay didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy say West Bay will provide a hire van for seven 
days in the event of a claim. I can see that due to an error by West Bay this was actually 
approved for 14 days. But as the repair to Mr Ds van took longer than this hes incurred 
additional charges for the hire van. Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable, in this 
particular case, for Mr D to be charged for the additional time he had the hire van for until his 
was repaired. 
I say this because Mr Ds policy covers him for seven days hire charges. The repair was 
estimated to take eight days and so, due to West Bays error at agreeing the hire for 14 
days, he would never have incurred the additional charges if the repair was completed within 
the estimated time, or even a few days longer. 
Ive considered West Bays point about the delay being down to the wrong parts being sent. 
But Im not persuaded that means its fair and reasonable for Mr D to incur the additional hire 
costs. Thats because its West Bays responsibility to carry out the repairs promptly and by 
not having the correct parts it meant Mr Ds repair was delayed, at no fault of Mr D. And 
considering his claim would have been covered for the hire van charges but for the delay in 
getting the correct parts, its fair and reasonable in this particular case for West Bay to cover 
the additional hire charges up until Mr Ds van was repaired. 
As Mr D kept the van beyond when his was repaired, Im not persuaded its fair and 
reasonable for West Bay to cover the hire charges between 13 May 2021 and 17 May 2021.
Ive also considered West Bays comments about the additional charges due to the Mr D not 
returning the hire van when requested. However, as Im satisfied West Bay should have 
covered the hire charges until the date Mr Ds van was repaired, Im satisfied they should 
also cover these fees up to the date Mr Ds van was repaired as well. I say this because if 
West Bay had covered the hire van while Mr Ds van was repaired, he wouldnt have needed 
to refuse to turn the van, and therefore wouldnt have incurred these charges. 
Mr D also said he didnt sign anything to tie him into the hire van charges. Whether Mr D has 
signed for the hire charges wasnt part of the original complaint referred to this service. So, if 
Mr D wishes to complain about that he would need to do it separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
West Bay Insurance Plc to pay the additional hire charges until the date Mr Ds van was 
repaired. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman