DRN-3847368
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Chorley and District Building Society didnt tell him about an 
interest rate reduction on his account.
What happened
Mr H says when he opened The Chorley and District Building Society account, he was told 
he would be informed about any interest rate changes. He says the interest rate reduced on 
his account in 2021 but he wasnt told about it. Mr H says two letters were not received and 
he would like compensation for the interest rate reduction.
The Chorley and District Building Society says the account terms and conditions say it can 
vary an interest rate and will tell customers 14 days in advance of any reduction to it. It says 
it used a third-party business to write to all of its customers and didnt receive a returned 
letter for Mr H. The Chorley and District Building Society says it wouldnt have written to Mr 
H a second time as the interest rate later increased not decreased.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought on balance Mr H was sent notice of the interest rate reduction in April 2021 and 
wouldnt have received a later letter when interest rates increased. The investigator thought 
it up to The Chorley and District Building Society to decide how it notified its customers 
about such matters and in using a third-party business.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and in summary says The Chorley and District Building 
Society cant provide evidence it sent him a letter and has breached the contract with him. 
He says he is legally entitled to receive his loss of interest of £346.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
There is no real dispute here that Mr Hs account terms and conditions allow The Chorley 
and District Building Society to vary account interest rates. Those terms and conditions also 
make clear that it will provide notice to its customers for an interest rate reduction. I have 
looked carefully at The Chorley and District Building Society information it has provided 
about the letter it says it sent to its customers in April 2021. And I think on balance that letter 
was sent.
Im satisfied that The Chorley and District Building Society doesnt have a record of the letter 
being returned to it and does have a record of Mr Hs name on its mail list. I appreciate Mr H 
says he didnt receive that letter but I cant fairly hold  The Chorley and District Building 
Society responsible for that and am satisfied its obligation is to tell its customers about the 
interest rate reduction which Im satisfied on balance it did by writing to Mr H.
I appreciate Mr H says The Chorley and District Building Society cant provide evidence of 
the letter being sent. I have made clear that I have to consider what I think on balance is 
more likely to have taken place and having done so think that letter was sent. I dont think it 
reasonable for a business to retain a copy of every letter it sends its customers in these 
circumstances but think a record has been kept of it being sent. We are not a court and so 
its not our role to decide if there has been a breach of contract as Mr H suggests or decide if 
he is legally entitled to the lost interest. We look at a dispute and decide on balance what we 
think is more likely to have taken place and if a complaint has been dealt with fairly and 
reasonably. 
Im satisfied overall that The Chorley and District Building Society has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and has explained to Mr H its process for sending customers letters in these 
circumstances. I dont think it likely Mr H would have received a second letter from The 
Chorley and District Building Society for an interest rate increase and cant fairly hold it 
responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. It follows that I cant fairly order The Chorley and 
District Building Society to pay Mr H the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman