DRN-3745560
The Complaint
Mr M says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 1 September 2010 (the Time of 
Sale). Mr M also says that the credit agreement he entered into wasnt arranged by an 
authorised credit broker and that BPF didnt carry out the right creditworthiness assessment 
before lending to him.
The complaint is in Mr Ms name because he was named on the credit agreement that gave 
rise to the claims and complaints in question. But as the holiday product at the centre of this 
complaint was purchased by Mr M and his wife (Mrs M), Ill refer to both of them at times 
during this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs M purchased a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier) at the Time of 
Sale and used finance from BPF in Mr Ms name to help pay for the purchase (the Credit 
Agreement)  the account for which BPF says closed on 1 February 2011. 
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr and Mrs M complained to BPF on 8 October 2021 about the 
status of the business that arranged the Credit Agreement and the checks BPF carried out 
before lending to Mr M. 
It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs M got a response from BPF to their letter. So, using a 
professional representative (PR), they referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on 7 March 2022. And when doing that, they expanded its scope to include concerns 
about misrepresentation and an unfair relationship.
BPF was notified of the complaint and on 4 May 2022 it made clear its position on Mr Ms 
claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship  arguing that they were out of time 
under the Limitation Act 1980.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, in summary, thought:
1. There wasnt a reason to uphold the complaint in light of Mr Ms concerns about the 
status of the broker who arranged the Credit Agreement.
2. Mr Ms claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship were likely to have been 
made out of time under the LA.
3. There wasnt the evidence to argue that the money lent to Mr M by BPF was 
unaffordable for him.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment (the First Response). In PRs view:
it wasnt reasonable of the investigator to argue that the Supplier (which held a 
Consumer Credit Licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)) was likely to have been 
the business that arranged the Credit Agreement;
it was unfair to apply the LA and, in any event, it argued that each and every one of 
Mr and Mrs Ms annual management charges created a new limitation period  thus 
giving Mr M more time to make his claims; and
as Mr M had to commit most if not all of his disposable income to the repayments under 
the Credit Agreement, he struggled to pay off the finance.
The investigator disagreed with PRs response to his assessment for largely the same 
reasons he had initially given for rejecting the complaint. So, PR wrote to him again (the 
Second Response). As that Response repeated much of what PR had to say in the First 
Response, I dont intend to repeat its contents in detail here. But, in summary, PR made the 
following arguments:
Had the Supplier arranged the Credit Agreement, there would have been a conflict-of-
interest contrary to Principles 6 and 8 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) 
Statement of Principles for Businesses (SPB) because it also sold the holiday product. 
Furthermore, the Supplier would also have been in breach of Principle 2 of the FCAs 
Statement of Principles for Approved Persons.
Section 32 of the LA postponed the limitation period and gave Mr M more time in which 
to make his claims.
The investigator remained unpersuaded by PRs arguments  prompting another letter from 
PR that covered what was largely existing ground. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the investigator referred the complaint for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Was the Credit Agreement enforceable in light of the credit brokers status?
When Mr and Mrs M wrote to BPF on 8 October 2021, they said the following in their letter:
We note that, the intermediary recorded on our loan agreement is [the Supplier]. Following 
enquiries made with the Financial Conduct Authority, it would seem that [the Supplier] were 
not permitted or authorised to arrange loans as prohibited by section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).So, it seems to me that Mr M and the investigator were essentially on the same page when it 
comes to which business was likely to have arranged the Credit Agreement. And in light of 
everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the Agreement was arranged by a broker that 
didnt have the authority1 to do so when theres little to no evidence that was the case. 
I also dont think the fact that the Supplier was selling Mr M a holiday product meant that its 
role as a credit broker would have been incompatible with its role as the supplier in the 
transaction. After all, the Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs M but as the 
supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation 
to the Credit Agreement, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to 
make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr M advice or information on 
that basis. Whats more, as PR hasnt explained the relevance of the FCA Principles it cited 
when the Suppliers role as a credit broker was regulated by the OFT rather than the FCA, 
Im not persuaded to uphold the complaint for the reason PR suggests I should.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And the limitation period to make such a 
claim expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of 
the LA).
When a consumer uses certain types of credit to pay for goods or services, and they want to 
make a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods or services, they can 
 in certain circumstances  make a like claim against the creditor under Section 75 of the 
CCA. The claim against the creditor essentially mirrors the claim the consumer could make 
against the supplier provided it satisfies certain conditions, which include being made inside 
the relevant limitation period i.e., six years. 
A claim under Section 75 is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment 
under Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is also six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr M entered into the 
purchase agreement and used the credit available to him under the Credit Agreement. I say 
this because he entered into the purchase agreement based on the alleged 
misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as the finance from BPF was 
used to help pay for the purchase, it was when he used the credit available to him under the 
Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr M entered into the purchase 
agreement or, if later, when he used the credit available to him under the Credit Agreement 
to finance the purchase  which means he had six years from either of those points in time 
to make this claim. But as he didnt complain about the alleged misrepresentations until 
March 2022, and as I cant see a reason why he had more time to make his claim in keeping 
with the relevant provisions of the LA despite PRs arguments to suggest otherwise, his 
claim is likely to have been late even if it had been submitted to court.
1 The Supplier fell under the Financial Ombudsman Services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. And it wouldnt 
have so if it didnt hold a Consumer Credit Licence from the Office of Fair Trading.To be clear, only a court can decide whether Mr Ms claim was made out of time under the 
LA. But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. With that being the case, I think BPF had and has a 
defence to Mr Ms Section 75 claim under the LA given its timing. And for that reason, I dont 
think theres anything BPF needs to do to put things right here.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr M and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does. 
However, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. And as the limitation period is 
six years from when Mr Ms account was closed (which was on 1 February 2011), and as the 
claim under Section 140A was only made in March 2022 (when I cant see a reason why 
hes likely to have had more time to make his claim in keeping with the relevant provisions of 
the LA), I think BPF is likely to be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too.
So, I see no reason to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to Mr Ms Section 140A 
claim either.
The Lending Decision
The suggestion that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent to Mr M could give rise 
to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A in the right circumstances. But 
Ive already explained why the claim under that provision was likely to have been made out 
of time under the LA.
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. But very 
little has been said about this particular allegation by Mr M. And even if I were to find that 
BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such 
finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr M before also 
concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade me that was 
the case, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman