DRN-3201038
The complaint
Mrs H complains about New Mount Reclaim Limiteds (New Mount) delay in dealing with 
her claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and their lack of updates. 
What happened
Mrs H instructed New Mount in 2019 to pursue PPI claims on her behalf. New Mount asked 
for some further information which Mrs H provided but she didnt then hear back for over two 
years despite chasing New Mount for updates. So, Mrs H complained.   
I can see our service referred Mrs Hs complaint to New Mount on her behalf and asked 
them to respond to Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H returned to our service and said New Mount 
hadnt responded to her complaint. Our service contacted New Mount to ask for information 
but there has been no response from New Mount.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H. New Mount havent provided the information 
requested by the investigator so she thought New Mount should pay Mrs H £500 
compensation. New Mount havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided New Mount with details of the complaint being made 
against them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its 
important that we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In 
this case, while New Mount havent provided any information to our service, Im satisfied 
weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I must be 
fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mrs H to have to continue 
waiting for an answer to her complaint.   
Ive seen a text message from New Mount to Mrs H in March 2019 to say they have an 
update on her PPI claims. The text message sets out the reference numbers for her claims. 
Theres a letter from New Mount to Mrs H in March thanking her for sending documents. 
Theres a further text message a month later where New Mount ask Mrs H for a copy of a 
Will, which she sends. There are then further text messages in April to say New Mount have 
an update on Mrs Hs claims. Taking this into account, Im satisfied New Mount were acting 
on Mrs Hs behalf on PPI claims. 
New Mount havent provided any evidence to show they submitted these claims prior to the 
PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Mrs H hasnt received any communication from the lenders, 
against who the claims were being made, with an outcome. Once a lender reaches an 
outcome, they generally write to the customer direct as well as the claims management 
company acting on behalf of the customer. Given that Mrs H hasnt received any 
communication from the lenders, I think its reasonable to conclude that no claims have been 
submitted. And, the PPI deadline has now passed so this means Mrs H has lost her 
opportunity to claim. In these circumstances, I think New Mount should pay Mrs H 
compensation. This compensation isnt a speculative assessment on what compensation 
mightve followed a successful complaint against the lenders  rather its to reflect the lost 
opportunity to Mrs H to pursue the complaints to a final outcome.   
The next point Ive looked at is the additional impact on Mrs H. Ive relied on Mrs Hs 
testimony here as New Mount havent provided any evidence to show what has been said to 
Mrs H about her claims. Mrs H has told our service she was initially informed by New Mount 
that she had a valid claim and this continued with New Mount telling Mrs H on several 
occasions that there are claims here to pursue. Mrs H says she was therefore expecting 
compensation which would help her circumstances as shes a widow and living alone. 
New Mount havent provided any information despite repeated requests so I cant say for 
certain what the basis was for them telling Mrs H she had valid claims. It could well be that 
the lenders had identified accounts with PPI but required further information like a PPI 
questionnaire so this is why New Mount felt these were valid claims. The fact is, it cant be 
said for certain without any information from New Mount. But, importantly here, and taking 
Mrs Hs testimony into account, its understandable she has been left expecting some 
compensation from her claims given the assurances New Mount gave her. So, I think the 
loss of opportunity will have impacted Mrs H more than a customer who hasnt been given 
any indication of the likely outcome of their claim. I think the level of Mrs Hs distress, worry 
and upset is understandably higher as she has been led to believe she has valid claims. 
The next point Ive considered is the delay and lack of updates to Mrs H. From the 
information Ive seen, the last updates to Mrs H are in April 2019. Mrs H has told our service 
she has repeatedly tried to contact New Mount for an update but hasnt received anything 
since April 2019. Mrs H also says she has left numerous messages but these have all been 
ignored. So, theres the upset here to Mrs H of not knowing whats going on  and whats 
happened  for nearly three years. Its clear from Mrs Hs testimony this has been a very 
upsetting and distressing time for her. She has told our service about her personal 
circumstances and how the delays and lack of contact have caused her significant worry and 
upset. So, taking this all into account, I think New Mount should pay Mrs H £500 
compensation for the loss of opportunity in pursuing her claims to a final outcome and for the 
significant distress, worry and upset caused to her by continuously chasing but not receiving 
any contact for nearly three years.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that New Mount havent taken reasonable steps to protect Mrs Hs claims 
and this has led to a lost opportunity to pursue these to a final outcome. Theyve also caused 
Mrs H significant distress, worry and upset by not contacting her for nearly three years and 
not returning her calls. So, New Mount should pay Mrs H compensation of £500.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. New Mount Reclaim Limited must pay 
compensation of £500 to Mrs H.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman