DRN-3459570
The complaint
Miss L and Mr M complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). Their 
complaint is about the quality of work carried out at their property under a claim on their 
home insurance policy for damage from a water leak.
References to Admiral include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss L and Mr M contacted Admiral to lodge a claim under their home 
insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak in their kitchen. The leak damaged 
flooring across the downstairs of their property (being open plan). Admiral appointed a 
contractor to repair the damage, which was completed in December 2019. However, Miss L 
and Mr W werent happy with the quality of the work as the new flooring began to crack and 
split. They raised their concerns with Admiral several times during 2020. 
Following discussion, in March 2021 the contractor engaged an independent assessment of 
the new flooring, as did Admiral subsequently. Both concluded poor workmanship when it 
was laid. Admiral then appointed a new contractor to replace the flooring and skirting boards. 
This work started in October 2021 and was completed the following month. 
 
Given the issues and concerns raised by Miss L and Mr M, Admiral treated them as a 
complaint and in recognition of the problems that had occurred, awarded £750 in 
compensation in June 2021. Following further discussion with Miss l and Mr M, they 
increased this to £1,000. After completion of the re-laying of the floor in November 2021, 
Miss L and Mr M raised their concerns again, as the whole incident and reinstatement work 
had taken over two years. As well as the quality of the flooring and workmanship, Miss L and 
Mr M were unhappy that the associated redecoration of their home was incomplete.
In their final response of December 2021, Admiral upheld the complaint. Admiral agreed the 
workmanship and flooring from the first contractor wasnt to an acceptable standard, as was 
the response to the issues this caused. They noted the rectification work by the second 
contractor had been completed to an acceptable standard. On the issue of incomplete 
redecoration, Admiral also apologised for the first contractor not completing this part of the 
reinstatement work to an acceptable standard. But they noted the second contractor had 
completed the redecoration to an acceptable standard. In recognition of the issues raised in 
the complaint, Admiral awarded £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss 
L and Mr M (and £50 for delay in issuing a complaint response).
Miss L and Mr M then complained to this service, unhappy at Admirals response. They felt 
theyd had to spend a lot of time raising their concerns with Admiral to get their flooring fixed. 
They didnt feel £1,500 was enough to compensate them for the inconvenience suffered and 
time spent pursuing their concerns. They were also unhappy at the increase in their premium 
because of the claim theyd made  something they felt wasnt justified given the experience 
theyd had. Given this, they felt a higher level of compensation was justified.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to take any 
further action. He thought Admiral had caused significant frustration to Miss L and Mr M, but 
had accepted their service had been below the standard to be expected and had offered 
compensation. Taking the circumstances into account, the investigator thought Admirals 
offer of £1,550 in compensation was fair.
Miss L and Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, Miss L and Mr M said the compensation awarded didnt 
reflect the fact theyd had to manage the issues theyd raised to a conclusion and the 
disruption caused to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Miss L and Mr M.
The key issue in this complaint is the level of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Miss L and Mr M because of the poor workmanship in replacing 
the flooring (and redecoration) carried out by the first contractors appointed by Admiral. 
What isnt in dispute is that the workmanship was poor, leading to problems with the flooring 
and, ultimately, the need to replace the flooring (by a second, different contractor). From 
what Ive seen, the indications are that the work of the second contractor hasnt been an 
issue and Miss L and Mr M are content with the quality of the work. Admiral have accepted 
the quality of work from the first contractor wasnt good and have apologised. Theyve also 
offered a total of £1,550 in compensation.
However, Miss L and Mr M say theyve had two years of disruption before the flooring and 
redecoration have been reinstated to an acceptable standard. Theyve also had to spend a 
significant amount of time raising and pursuing the issues and their concerns (they refer to 
having sent over 100 emails). Id first want to reassure Miss L and Mr M Ive carefully 
considered everything theyve told us about their experience, as well as what Admiral have 
said (including their case notes). I appreciate the experience has been lengthy, disruptive 
and frustrating. Ive borne that in mind in deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
In doing so Ive also referred to the guidelines we publish as a service on what wed expect 
businesses to offer in compensation for distress and inconvenience when things go wrong. 
Looking at the circumstances of the case and what Miss L and Mr M have said about the 
impact of what happened, I agree the impact on them has been significant and substantial. 
But I think Admiral have recognised this, when awarding them £1,500 in compensation (and 
£50 in compensation for delay in responding to their complaint). While complaint handling by 
businesses isnt an activity that falls within the remit of this service, I think its reasonable for 
Admiral to make an award for that specific aspect. 
On the figure of £1,500 for inconvenience, I think its in line with what wed consider to be a 
very significant impact on a consumer, over a prolonged period. Both of which are present in 
Miss L and Mr Ms case. As such, I think Admirals offer is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be 
asking them to pay a higher sum.
 
While Ive concluded its fair and reasonable, Ive also noted that Admirals final response 
also included an offer to consider additional recompense for Miss L and Mr M for any direct 
financial loss theyve incurred when pursuing their case against them (which I take to mean 
things like the cost of phone calls or other directly incurred costs). Again, I think thats fair 
and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss L and Mr Ms 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman