DRN-3386755
The complaint
Mr S complained after HSBC UK Bank Plc sent dividends to his bank account instead of 
directly to a new ISA provider. He is also unhappy with the way HSBC has handled his 
queries about account terms and conditions generally and feels his questions have simply 
prompted further queries which have not so far been answered. 
What happened
Mr S held funds in an HSBC Global Investment Centre Account (GIC). In July 2021, 
changes were made to the account before a letter was sent to Mr S advising him about this. 
Mr Ss view was that terms and conditions clearly state 30 days advance notice. He 
complained to HSBC about what he regarded as a clear breach of stated terms and 
conditions.
In August 2021, HSBC apologised to Mr S for delay in telling him about changes being made 
to some of the GIC funds. 
Mr S didnt feel this response addressed all his outstanding queries and in particular, he 
pressed his point of view that the late notification of the fund changes was a breach of terms 
and conditions on the part of HSBC. An exchange of emails followed between Mr S and 
HSBC. 
HSBC said that under the terms and conditions, it was not obliged to give customers notice 
of any changes made to the fund by the fund manager. It said the term Mr S referred to was 
specific to changes to the GIC product and not funds. But it said that if the fund managers 
made changes to the fund, HSBC endeavoured to pass on the information to its customers 
in a timely manner where it felt it was relevant and necessary to do so, as it had in this 
case. But HSBC agreed that it should have informed Mr S sooner.
In the course of correspondence, Mr S had also mentioned a 60 days notice period he had 
seen in terms and conditions. HSBC said this referred to the fund managers obligation to 
give HSBC notice about any planned changes.  
Correspondence between Mr S and HSBC about this continued.
This led to HSBC writing to Mr S on 1 October 2021 to confirm its view that late notification 
of the fund changes was not a breach of the terms and conditions. It also said that its terms 
allowed it to make deductions from Mr Ss ISA account but, although quarterly fees were 
due, it wouldnt be taking these and it hadnt taken any fees for completion of the transfer. 
HSBC also answered some other queries Mr S had raised and said it hoped this clarified the 
questions raised. HSBC apologised for the drawn out process and any confusion it may 
have caused. It confirmed an offer of £50, by way of an apology for paying the dividends out 
to Mr Ss bank account in breach of the terms and conditions, was still available.
Mr S said he had no wish to start moving the dividend amounts that went directly into his 
current account and accepted the £50 payment offered. HSBC has confirmed this was paid. 
But Mr S still felt he had unanswered questions. By way of example, he wanted to know who 
decides if it is relevant and necessary to give customers notice of fund changes made by 
the fund manager  and how such a decision is taken. And he said that HSBCs explanation 
about the 60 days notice period appeared incorrect. In support he quoted from a letter he 
had received (from the Fund Managers) which mentioned it was necessary under the 
applicable rules for us to give you at least 60 days notice. This letter is our way of giving 
notice to you
Mr S brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Whilst our investigator was sympathetic to Mr Ss position, he explained that this Service 
isnt a regulator and its not our role to punish businesses for breaching their terms. He said 
if an error occurred, we would look to place Mr S back in the position he ought to be in had 
no error occurred. Our investigator felt that the £50 already paid by HSBC was fair and 
reasonable overall to reflect the impact on Mr S of the admitted error made by HSBC when it 
wrongly made a dividend payment into his current account (when it was meant to have been 
transferred to Mr Ss new ISA provider).
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said our investigator seemed to have 
changed the terms of his complaint and just dealt with one part of it and he was confused by 
responses sent from the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive looked at this complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Its my understanding that Mr Ss complaint started off when he didnt receive notice of the 
change in account terms. He is also unhappy because Apart from the changes in terms  
there are quite a few queries which HSBC have not answered .  
So I will look at both parts of his complaint.
the lack of notice re changes to terms and conditions 
The facts are not in dispute. In September 2021, Mr S received in his current account a 
dividend payment which was meant to have been transferred to his new ISA provider. When 
he complained to HSBC, it accepted it had made an error and offered Mr S £50 
compensation. Alternatively, it said it could move this money back into the ISA and so 
correct the error. 
I think that was a reasonable response on the part of HSBC. Ill explain why I say this. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach to redress. Briefly, I need to decide what the impact on Mr S has been as a result 
of HSBC making this error. 
I havent been provided with anything to show that Mr S suffered a financial loss as a result 
of this error. He was offered the option of being put into the position he would have been had the 
payment gone to his ISA provider in the first place. Mr S said he didnt want that. 
Instead, Mr S accepted the £50 payment offered by HSBC. I think this amount is sufficient to 
reflect the aggravation he was caused as a result of the payment going unexpectedly into his 
bank account and it is in line with what I would expect HSBC to pay in circumstances like 
this. I havent seen enough to make me think that any higher award of compensation is 
warranted  especially bearing in mind that HSBC also waived fees as well.
So I dont uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.  
there are quite a few queries which HSBC have not answered
I am sorry that Mr S has found it frustrating trying to get answers to all his queries. And 
I appreciate that Mr S doesnt accept everything HSBC has said. But, as far as I can see, 
HSBC has tried to engage constructively and address the key points he has raised. 
And whilst he would like more details about exactly how HSBC makes some of its business 
decisions, I think its worth remembering that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect any 
financial business to share with customers full details of internal decision-making processes 
it is entitled to keep confidential. As our investigator mentioned, the way a financial business 
operates is overseen by the regulator.  
In coming to my decision, I am aware that Mr S has indicated, amongst other things, he feels 
HSBC has breached other terms and conditions. But these wider issues doesnt seem to 
have been part of his original complaint to HSBC so I dont feel I can comment further. We 
can only look at complaints after a financial business has first had an opportunity to try and 
resolve things direct with its customer. If Mr S feels that he has lost out because HSBC has 
failed to deal with queries he is entitled to expect it to answer, or hes worse off as a result of 
other things it has done wrong, then he should first tell the business why he remains 
unhappy so it has an opportunity to respond to his complaint. If he is still unhappy after that, 
Mr S will have the option of bringing his complaint to us.   
To sum up, in order to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint I have to be able to fairly say that 
HSBC has done something wrong and Mr S has lost out  I havent seen enough here to do 
so. Taking things as a whole, I think that the payment already made to Mr S is fair and 
reasonable to reflect the impact on him of its admitted error. As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with 
his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
If I have not referred to each and every point mentioned during the course of the 
correspondence about this complaint, its because I have nothing further I can usefully add 
to what our investigator has said already. In my decision, I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr S hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman