DRN-2116707
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limiteds (AA) in relation to a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to the AA, this includes their agents. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of some key events here.
In August 2019 Mr Ms car was involved in an accident which caused damage to a rear door 
and wheel arch. Mr Ms motor insurance is provided by the AA. It was arranged that the AA 
would collect Mr Ms car and take it to one of their authorised repairers to be fixed in line with 
the policy.
On 12 September 2019 Mr Ms car was collected and taken to the garage. Mr M later noticed 
from his vehicle tracker that his car hadnt been taken directly to the garage. The online log 
showed it had taken a longer route. 
Mr M complained to the garage and later to the AA. He was told that a major road which 
would have been the most direct route had very heavy traffic. So, the driver was trying to 
avoid that and in doing so got lost on his way to the garage. Mr M didnt find that to be 
acceptable, he considered that a professional driver should have access to a working Sat-
Nav and have been able to find a better route. He feels it is an abuse of trust and that his car 
was taken for a joyride. 
Mr M was offered £50 compensation which he declined to accept. The complaint was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators thought it should be upheld. He 
recommended that the compensation should be increased to £75. The AA didnt agree and 
thought the compensation already offered was more than fair. So, they asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
In July 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Everyone is in agreement that the driver took an indirect route from Mr Ms house to the 
garage. The AA say that this was because a major road had heavy traffic at that time, they 
also say that the driver got lost trying to avoid the traffic.
I find this to be a reasonable explanation for the route taken and I dont think there is 
evidence to support that the driver was deliberately taking an indirect route or that he went 
for a joyride.
I appreciate that when Mr M put his car into his insurers custody for a repair, hed expect it 
to be well treated and looked after. But even if I were to conclude the AA had made an error 
(which I dont) Im not persuaded that his car being taken on a longer route has caused him 
to be significantly inconvenienced. The longer route involved somewhere in the region of ten 
extra miles being driven. 
As the AA offered £50 compensation, I think it is fair that this should be paid. I consider this 
amount to be sufficient to compensate for any upset this incident caused Mr M in its entirety. 
I also think it is plenty to account for the nominal increase in fuel and wear and tear on his 
car. 
Mr M also pointed out that the journey took around an hour and a half rather than the 30 
minutes it should have done. But as he wasnt in the car at the time, I dont think this caused 
him to be inconvenienced. 
I appreciate there might have initially been some debate about whether the £50 was offered 
as a reduction of the excess or as a compensation payment. The AA have since confirmed 
that this offer is for a payment to be made directly to Mr M, which I consider fair. 
Overall, I think the AA have provided a reasonable explanation and so it would be unfair for 
me to ask them to increase the £50 they have already offered to Mr M. If this amount hasnt 
already been paid and Mr M would like to accept it, he should contact the AA to arrange 
this.
The AA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M responded to say that he disagreed. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he feels the route taken makes it clear that this wasnt a case of getting lost and 
he is adamant his car was used inappropriately  he believes it to be a breach of trust. He 
also points out that the car has a navigation system and that hed except a professional 
driver to have a smart phone or sat nav system. 
Ive considered this, and I acknowledge Mr M doesnt accept my findings, but I still think the 
AAs explanation for the route taken by their agent is reasonable. I cant be sure which 
navigation aids the driver had or could have used, but ultimately Mr Ms car safely reached 
its intended destination. Albeit having taken longer and having driven around 10 miles further 
than if a more direct route had been used.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im not persuaded that the AA need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. I consider their offer of £50 to be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman