DRN-3884660
The complaint
Mr O complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank have failed to refund 
over £18,000 he says he lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr O says he has fallen victim to a scam, as he transferred 
£18,395 in two payments to a car auction buying service (F) in June 2021 but did not 
receive the goods he paid for. F has since become insolvent and its directors are the subject 
of an ongoing fraud investigation, so Mr O asked Danske Bank to refund his money on the 
basis he had been scammed.
Danske Bank said it spoke to Mr O when he made the £18,000 transfer, where he confirmed 
he had used the services of the business before; had seen the vehicle he was planning to 
purchase and was happy to proceed. As he had authorised the payment, the bank refused to 
provide him with a refund. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt satisfied that F had set out to scam 
Mr O at the point he made his payments and considered the matter to be a civil dispute. 
Mr O disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr O authorised the disputed payments he made to F from his 
Danske Bank account. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by Danske Bank, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments 
to be made as instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
As the investigator has pointed out, its not exactly clear that Mr O has been scammed 
here. I appreciate that Fs directors are now the subject of a fraud investigation, but its 
clear that Mr O had dealings with F in the past where he did not have any issues and 
had received the goods he paid for. I appreciate the company is now in liquidation, and 
that others may have received their money back on the basis that they were scammed 
by F. However, our service looks at each case on its own individual merits. And Ive not 
seen enough persuasive evidence to suggest that F had set out with the intention to 
deceive Mr O at the point he made his payments to it. So, his dispute with F would 
therefore be considered a civil dispute. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr O has been the victim of a scam here, I still dont think 
Danske Bank would be liable to refund the money he has lost in any event. This is 
because Danske Bank did in fact intervene when Mr O was attempting to make the 
£18,000 payment. It has not been able to provide the relevant call recording, but said 
that Mr O had dealings with the company before and had seen the vehicle, which is 
consistent with what he has told us. So, he seemingly wouldve had no concerns about 
Fs legitimacy at the time he made the £18,000 payment in June 2021. And given he had 
no concerns about the company at the time, I dont think that any level of intervention by 
Danske Bank wouldve made him think he was being scammed or wouldve ultimately 
stopped him from making the payment. 
Therefore, even if I were to agree that Mr O had been scammed and that Danske Bank 
ought to have gone further in its questioning about the purpose of the payment, I dont 
think it could fairly and reasonably be held liable for his loss as Im not persuaded any 
intervention would have likely prevented him from making the payment, and there would 
have been nothing significant that would have alerted Mr O to the fact that he was 
potentially being scammed.
Ive also thought about whether Danske Bank couldve done more to recover the funds 
after Mr O reported the alleged fraud. However, I can see that Danske Bank sought to 
recover the money by reaching out to the receiving bank, but was told that no funds 
remained. So, I dont think it could have done anything further to try and recover the 
money either. Danske Bank are also be under no obligation to consider reimbursing 
Mr Os loss under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as it is not 
signed up to this scheme. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, and Im sorry to hear about the 
money he has lost. But in these circumstances Im not persuaded Danske Bank has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman