DRN-3178295
The complaint
Mr V complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to cancel his 
income protection cover because it thought he had knowingly withheld relevant information 
from it. 
What happened
Mr V was covered under his employers group income protection scheme. Benefit was 
payable if Mr V couldnt carry out an occupation to which he was suited by way of education, 
training or experience. 
In 2017, Mr V stopped work because of ill health. He made a claim, which Aviva accepted in 
2018. 
In 2019, Aviva carried out a review of Mr Vs claim. After it had done so, it thought Mr V had 
knowingly withheld relevant information from it. Aviva therefore terminated Mr Vs claim and 
cancelled his cover. Unhappy with this, Mr V brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator ultimately didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had 
been reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr V had knowingly withheld information, and 
therefore cancel the cover.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that Aviva can cancel the cover if the insured at any time knowingly 
withholds relevant information from it.
When Mr V made his claim in 2018, he signed a consent form which said that he would 
notify Aviva immediately if he should carry out any work, whether paid or unpaid. 
Mr V maintains that he hasnt done any work since 2017. However, this isnt consistent with 
the available evidence which supports that he set up an online business for which he was 
the registered owner, purchased stock, bought and arranged advertising for that business, 
listed items for sale (on the business account and his own social media account which was 
linked to it), and was named as a contact associated with the business. 
Mr V says he did this on his brothers behalf and his brother then sold the stock, and 
received the funds. He says he hasnt received any profit or reward from the business. 
The available evidence doesnt support that Mr Vs brother ran the business. Whilst its 
accepted that items were sold abroad, its also the case that Mr V made several visits to that 
particular country in 2018 and 2019. 
When Mr V was asked by Avivas representative in March 2019 about any work he may be 
doing (and was told that would include both paid or unpaid work), he said that he had sold 
some of his own items that he no longer needed, as he had numerous shoes and trainers 
that he no longer wore. However, the items listed for sale included many new items, 
including shoes in different sizes. 
After Aviva arranged a further meeting and asked Mr V to provide evidence of bank 
statements and other financial information, it was only at this point that Mr V told Aviva that 
hed set up the business.
Aviva has also raised some concerns with the financial information Mr V provided. Amongst 
other things, it says that he appears to hold accounts with other banks for which he hasnt 
provided statements. It also says there are some months missing for the bank statements for 
his main account. 
I havent looked into Mr Vs financial information in any great detail. Though I understand 
theres no evidence to support that Mr V received money from the business. However, its 
also the case that Mr V hasnt been able to provide evidence to support that his brother 
received the money from the stock that was sold either. Mr Vs solicitor says sales were 
either made by cash on collection, or through local post offices (abroad) where payment is 
made directly to the post office and Mr Vs brother would collect the money. Whilst some 
post office receipts have been provided, this doesnt show where the money was paid.
Mr Vs solicitor has questioned what difference it would have made if Mr V had told Aviva 
about the business from the outset. Aviva thinks this couldve have made a difference to the 
benefit received by Mr V. Thats because the claim had been accepted on the basis that 
Mr V wasnt able to carry out a role to which he was suited by way of education, training or 
experience. Yet the available evidence supports that Mr V was able to carry out 
administration tasks at the very least. I think this is a reasonable point.
Taking everything into account, I think its fair to say that Mr V was carrying out work 
activities, and that he ought to have known this information was relevant to Aviva. Despite 
this, he didnt tell Aviva that he was working. When he was specifically asked in March 2019 
about any work he may be doing, he didnt tell Aviva the full facts and made it seem that he 
was only selling his own unwanted items, which wasnt the case. I think it was reasonable for 
Aviva to therefore conclude that he knowingly withheld information about the work hed been 
doing, and to cancel his cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman