DRN-2516449
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought by Mrs M on both their behalves.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 to cover Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
payments. The policy was taken out by post, after the mortgage had been in place for 
around four years. The policy provided Mr and Mrs M with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment and the benefit was split 60%/40% between them.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Mr M 
wasnt eligible for the policy as he wasnt in permanent employment.
Bank of Ireland didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The questions about employment on the application form were clear and, if Mr M had 
ticked the No box, the PPI application wouldnt have been successful.
Mr M must have ticked the Yes boxes and Mr and Mrs M signed the application to 
confirm that the details were correct.
The policy was as a result of a mailshot, so Mr and Mrs M had time  in their own home 
 to decide if they wanted the cover, and if they qualified for it.
If Mr M decided to misrepresent his employment status, the bank shouldnt be held 
responsible for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
To be eligible for the policy, Mr and Mrs M needed to be in permanent paid employment for 
at least 16 hours a week; and they needed to have been employed continuously for the last 
six months.
Mrs M has provided evidence to show that Mr Ms permanent employment ended on 
16 November 2001. Mrs M told us that Mr M became permanently employed again in 
July 2002. Between these dates he had several temporary jobs. 
So, when they applied for the policy, Mr M was either unemployed or in temporary 
employment. This meant he was not eligible for the policy.
Bank of Ireland told us Mr and Mrs M took the policy as a result of a mailshot. It cant provide 
a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms application form, which isnt surprising given this took place in 
2001. But its provided a sample of the form that, in all likelihood, is the same as the one 
Mr and Mrs M would have completed. The form includes five Entry Questions with yes or 
no boxes to tick including:
Are you currently in paid employment for at least 16 hours a week? and
Have you been employed or self-employed continuously for the last six months?
Bank of Ireland says Mr M would not have been given the insurance if hed answered Yes 
to either, or both, questions. Unfortunately, Mr M is not in a position to tell us why he may 
have answered Yes. And even if he was, hed be unlikely to remember what he did on a 
form 10 years ago and why. I think its likely, if he did tick the Yes box, he did so by 
mistake. There is also a possibility that he answered Yes, and the application was 
accepted by mistake. 
I cant be sure exactly what happened. But the fact remains that Ive found Mr M was not 
eligible for the policy. I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have wanted to take, and then pay 
for, a policy that Mr M was not eligible for. So I think Bank of Ireland should put Mr and 
Mrs M back in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken the policy.
Putting things right
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Ireland can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Ireland to take off tax from this interest. 
Bank of Ireland must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman