DRN-3867113
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont reimburse him with the money he lost to a
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2021 Mr S says he was looking to invest in cryptocurrency and found a firm online that Ill
refer to as N. Between August and November 2021 Mr S sent payments from his account
with another bank S to an exchange Ill refer to as C. Cryptocurrency was purchased which
Mr S believed was then used to fund his investment with N. Mr S says that he had an
account manager from N and access to a platform where he could see his account value
rising.
In late October 2021 Mr S account manager told him there was a problem and that his
account was frozen. He was required to pay a further amount of around £26,000 to release
his funds. Around this time Mr S was also referred to a Mr B who he was told also had
significant funds frozen with N and who would assist him to recover the same.
At Mr Bs direction Mr S started to use a different cryptocurrency exchange K and he also
opened an account with Barclays. This was because Mr B told him that Barclays were more
co-operative with payments being made to cryptocurrency.
Mr S made payments from his account with S to C of around £165,000. There was also one
payment from that account on 23 November 2021 for £100 which went to K. Mr S also
received credits back into his account with S from C of around £37,000. Mr S then went on
to send significant funds of over £630,000 from his account with Barclays towards the scam
(to both C and K). This included the proceeds of Mr S selling his home. The details of these
transactions are listed below:
Date Amount Beneficiary Notes
31 December 2021 £100 K Online Banking
12 January 2022 £410,506 Credit N/A Credit from Equity 
Release
13 January 2022 £50,000 K Online Banking
13 January 2022 £83,000 C In Branch
13 January 2022 £67,000 K In Branch
14 January 2022 £189,000 K In Branch (Posts to 
statement on 17 
January)
18 January 2022 £15,000 K Online Banking
26 January 2022 £4,000 K Online Banking
1 Feb 2022 £155,966.17 Credit N/A Proceeds of House 
Sale
1 February 2022 £155,500 K In Branch
3 February 2022 £21,000 K Online Banking
3 February 2022 £24,000 K Online Banking
4 February 2022 £5,800 K Online Banking
7 February 2022 £19,250 K Online Banking
In February 2022 Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to Barclays
and S. This realisation came when he was due to receive over £1,000,000 from Mr B (who
was also going to buy back his home for him and provide him with two new cars) but was
then informed that hed been in an accident. Barclays had intervened numerous times in the
series of payments Mr S had made. And overall they felt theyd done enough to warn him of
the risks involved and declined to offer a refund.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary
she didnt think that any reasonable level of questioning by Barclays would have resulted in
Mr S not continuing to make payments towards the scam. So, she didnt recommend that
they needed to do more. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. In August 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Mr S linked complaints which arise from the same overall scam. But this
decision is limited to whether Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably in all the
circumstances.
Overall, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator. But as Im providing a
greater level of detail, I wanted to issue this provisional decision to give both sides a further
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear that Mr S has lost such a life changing amount to cruel and
callous scammers. I have no doubt as to the significant impact this must have had (and
continues to have) on him. My role here however is to act impartially to reach a fair and
reasonable outcome. So, despite my natural sympathy for Mr S situation, it would only be 
fair for me to direct Barclays to do more if they are responsible for failings which either
caused the loss or hindered its recovery.
Does the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) apply to this complaint?
In May 2019 the Lending Standards Board introduced the CRM Code. This is a voluntary
code through which victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams can sometimes
receive reimbursement from the banks involved.
Mr S believes the payments he made from his Barclays account fall within the scope of the
CRM Code. He has pointed out the way in which APP scam is defined in a recent
consultation by the Payment Systems Regulator. Specifically, that it involves a transfer to an
account controlled by the fraudster. He believes this supports the CRM Code being
applicable here. Ive considered this, but I think the definition within the CRM Code itself
should be used. And this means, for the CRM Code to apply, it requires that the payments
were made to another person.
Mr S testimony around this issue hasnt been consistent. When Barclays (and S) intervenedin the payments he was making, he told them that hed opened the accounts with C and K
himself and that he had sole access to them. When Mr S reported the scam to S, he was
asked whether he opened the accounts himself or if they were opened for him and he said: I
was assisted in the opening of the account The following exchange also took place:
S: What happens is weve obviously got your money to start with, so then, you move your
money from us to [C] and that money is then on that app. Did you move it from that app
yourself or did they have control of that?
Mr S: Well, I was being told to move it, so I was acting under instructions.
S: But they didnt have access to do that then?
Mr S: No.
S: So you moved it all to the trading account or the investment?
Mr S: Yes
This indicates that Mr S had both access to and control of the account. Further to this, when
reporting the scam to Barclays, Mr S confirmed that he was guided by the scammers when
opening the cryptocurrency accounts, which suggests he did this himself. He was also asked
if the fraudster showed him how to convert the funds into cryptocurrency and send them on,
to which he replied yes. This again suggests that Mr S had access to and control of the
account. However, later in the same call, Mr S says that the account had two-factor
authentication (2FA) and that this was always provided by the scammer, who provided the
codes.
In his more recent submissions to our service, Mr S has said the accounts with C and K
were opened and controlled by the scammer. He points out that Mr B was able to apply for
a loan in his name with another business. Mr S has also shared what he says was part of his
communication with Mr B from February 2022 which shows that Mr B had opened a new
account in his name (although with whom isnt mentioned, and this was a few days before
the scam was discovered). Mr S also said: (Mr B) had access and equal control of the
account. He opened accounts in my name, had the security details and passwords. He
frequently used TeamViewer to take over control of my iPad. Mr S also shared evidence of
what he says are emails sent, from his account, by the scammer and not him.
The net result of all of this is that I cant rely on Mr S testimony particularly in relation to
whether he opened and operated the accounts with C and K himself, as his testimony has
changed over time. In cases like this where evidence is contradictory or incomplete, I have 
to make a judgement on the balance of probabilities. That being what I believe is most likely
to have happened, taking into account all the available evidence.
I asked Mr S to provide all the evidence he had of the communication between him and the
scammers. And having reviewed this I find the messages between him and the scammer to
be persuasive evidence and Ive placed more weight on it accordingly. It is, in effect, a
contemporaneous record of what was said.
The message evidence is clear that Mr S was talked through the process of opening the
account with C. It is equally clear that Mr S also had control of that account as there is a
conversation about Mr S decision to withdraw £25,000 from the account with C back to his
bank account in September 2021  something the scammer criticised him for doing. This
withdrawal is also supported by evidence from Mr S account statements (with S)  along
with various other withdrawals for lesser amounts made around the same time.
Similarly, the message evidence shows that Mr S shared with the scammer a Know your
Customer (KYC) email which hed received from K. This asked him to provide a photo of
himself, presumably as part of their account opening process. The messages that followed
involve the scammer assisting Mr S with submitting a photo and advising him of what to sayto K. Mr S also later shared confirmation with the scammer that his account with K was open
and had received a credit. This doesnt support that Mr S was unable to access that account.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think its most likely that Mr S opened the
accounts with C and K himself, albeit under the guidance of the scammers. Mr S has also
maintained this in all but his most recent submissions in response to our Investigators view.
I also think its most likely that Mr S shared access to his accounts with C and K with the
scammers. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me (including the issue around 2FA)
that the scammers had sole or exclusive access to either account. Mr S submissions also
include that hed reported the scam to K who had blocked his account, something they would
be unlikely to do, were it not his account.
And in these circumstances, I cant fairly say that the payments made from Barclays to the
accounts in Mr S name with either C or K, and to which Mr S had (or always could have
had) access, were transfers to another person.
Barclays are a signatory to the CRM Code  but the CRM Code is quite explicit that it
doesnt apply to all push payments. As Ive mentioned above, it only covers scam payments
when the funds are being transferred to another person. In this case, on balance, I think
Mr S sent the money to his own accounts held with cryptocurrency exchanges before it was
then passed on to scammers. This means I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or
unreasonably by not providing a refund under the CRM Code. If Mr S has further evidence
that the accounts he funded with either C or K werent his, he should supply this in response
to my provisional decision and Ill take it into consideration.
But just because the CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments relevant to this complaint,
this doesnt mean Barclays werent obliged to try to protect Mr S from financial harm due to
fraud or scams. So, Ill go on to consider whether theyve acted appropriately in the
circumstances.
Did Barclays do enough to try to protect Mr S from losing money to the scam?
Both parties agree that the majority of the payments Mr S made towards the scam were
potentially indicative of fraud, particularly given this was a newly opened account without a
history of previous activity. So, I wont discuss that in further detail.
Barclayss first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr S provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently uncharacteristic or suspicious (as they are here), Id expect
Barclays to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transactions before
processing them. Id also expect Barclays to provide suitable warnings about common
scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the
payments. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Barclays to refuse to follow
the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or
scam.
In this case there were numerous instances of intervention from Barclays with several
conversations between them and Mr S. Throughout these interactions Mr S answers to the
questions from Barclays included that:
He was investing in Bitcoin and was aware of the risks in doing so.
He had opened his Crypto wallet accounts himself and hadnt shared access or
details of these with anyone else.
He had previously withdrawn funds without issue.
He was doing all this based on his own research and wasnt being instructed orassisted by anyone else.
Further to this there were occasions when Barclays asked questions which closely matched
the circumstances of the scam Mr S was a victim of. On 18 January 2022 Barclays asked
whether Mr S had shared access to his cryptocurrency accounts, had the involvement of any
third party or was making the payment on a promise to recover an old investment? Mr S said
no to all of these.
Again on another call on 26 January 2022, Barclays confirmed with Mr S that he hadnt
downloaded any software that allows shared access to his devices and that he wasnt
making the payment to recover an old investment. And there was also another call, earlier in
January 2022 in which the following exchange took place:
Barclays: Once the payment has gone through, if it does turn out to be a scam, there is no
guarantee well be able to recover the money for you. So, can I just confirm you do
understand that?
Mr S: I take responsibility for that, yes.
Much of what Mr S said at the time differed to what he said when reporting the scam.
Specifically that there was a third party involved, that he had downloaded software to enable
sharing of his device and that he was making payments in an attempt to try to recover his
initial investment with N.
Banks like Barclays should be alert to victims of scams who might be being coached. Which
is why its important that any questions asked are probing in nature and designed to try to
unearth a potential scam. And that the answers received arent automatically taken at face
value. But, by answering in the way he did, I think Mr S seriously impaired Barclays ability to
try to protect him.
Mr S had also complained to S because they kept stopping his payments to C and were
asking him lots of questions. He says he was paid £50 compensation and was assured that
the situation would improve. I understand that he expressed further frustration when S
continued to ask him about payments going to C. Mr S likewise voiced his concerns to
Barclays about what he believes was excessive intervention in how he spent his money.
Some of the payments Mr S made were instructed in branch. The Banking Protocol is a joint
initiative between financial institutions and the Police. It centres around trying to protect
customers from losing money to fraud, particularly in relation to in-branch withdrawals or
transfers. The Banking Protocol is a relevant consideration here.
The Banking Protocol says that:
If a customer is identified as making an unusual or out of character cash withdrawal or fund
transfer request
1. The colleague will discreetly question the customer about their withdrawal and the
reason for making it.
2. If the colleague is concerned that the customer may be a victim of fraud, they will
notify a senior member of staff and, where possible, take the customer to a quiet
area or private room to ask further questions.
3. If the colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud then they should call the
police immediately on 999 quoting Banking Protocol...
The first in branch payments were made on 13 January 2022, Mr S account had been
credited with over £400,000 the previous day. And Barclays easily would have been able to
ascertain that this had come from either a re-mortgage or equity release. They then hadMr S, a gentleman in his 70s in branch, requesting to send significant amounts to a
cryptocurrency exchange. Barclays also would have known that older people are
disproportionately targeted by scammers and that the purchase of cryptocurrency can be a
common factor in scams due to its untraceable nature. Based on this, I think Barclays ought
to have invoked the Banking Protocol. And there is evidence to suggest that they did.
The message history shows that Mr S was communicating with Mr B whilst in branch on the
morning of 13 January 2022. At one point Mr S tells Mr B that he is about to see the bank
manager. So, I think Barclays did invoke the banking protocol and take it to stage two (as
quoted above). I think its most likely that the manager spoke to Mr S, asked him about the
payments and likely gave warnings of the risk of a fraud or scam. The notes recorded on the
day on Barclays systems say Scam check passed, buying cryptocurrency.
The Banking Protocol requires that the senior member of staff should call the Police if they
still have concerns that the customer is the victim of fraud. So, part of my consideration
needs to be whether the manager was right to not go to the next stage of calling the Police. I
think the managers decision was reasonable in the circumstances. Whilst cryptocurrency
can be a common feature of scams, it is also an increasingly popular investment choice.
Payments to cryptocurrency arent automatically fraudulent or the result of a scam. And Ive
no doubt that Mr S would have come across to the manager in the same way he did during
the numerous calls that Ive listened to. That being a confident and assured individual
looking to make personal investment decisions. And even if Im wrong about the managers
decision, and the Police ought to have been called, Im not persuaded this would have made
a difference overall for the reasons Ill come to.
This wasnt a case of an HMRC scam or that Mr S believed he was making payments to help
a law enforcement investigation where Police involvement would easily have uncovered the
scam. He believed he was making payments to recover a lost investment and had been
briefed and coached by the scammer to present himself as an individual making his own
investment decisions, something the evidence overwhelmingly supports he was prepared to
do.
As a part of the wider circumstances here Mr S had arranged to release equity from his
home. In doing so, he had presented Mr B as his nephew and allowed him to represent him 
with the equity release company. Mr S also sourced a detailed quote for a home renovation
costing around £166,000 (which he never intended to follow through with) as part of the
process for the equity release. He also went to great lengths when liaising with Land
Registry to arrange for another party to be removed from their records as having an interest
in the property to allow the equity release to take place. Mr S told the equity release firm that
he wished to gift the money to his son for the purchase of a house. He said he had an
investment due to mature for a significant sum, but that he didnt want to wait for that due to
his assessment of the property market at the time.
And whilst Mr S has said this isnt part of his complaint about Barclays, in January 2022 Mr S
also made a payment of around £1,800 to an account in Russia. The evidence from Barclays
shows that Mr S was again questioned in branch by a manager. But when Mr S reassured
the manager that this was for a genuine purchase of goods, the payment was released.
However, the messages between Mr S and Mr B show that this was in fact a payment to a
person Mr S had met online and who hed been communicating with for a number of weeks.
And that she was due to come and stay with him for a month. This has the hallmarks of a
romance scam, but again Mr S wasnt truthful as to the reasons for his payment. Im more
persuaded by the message history than by what Mr S told the manager at the time.All of this evidences that Mr S was prepared to go to significant lengths to present himself in
such a way that he would achieve the ends he was seeking. Whether this was securing
lending as an equity release, or persuading a bank to release a payment he wished to make.
I appreciate a uniformed Police officer asking questions or providing a warning can be more
impactful than bank staff. But ultimately, I dont think in these specific circumstances Police
involvement would have caused Mr S to have done anything differently. The level of concern
about his payments expressed by both S and Barclays was already very strong. Further
evidence of the messages between him and the scammer support that he was given the
third degree about the dangers of scams. So I dont think Mr S was in any doubt as to the
concerns about the actions he was undertaking. Yet, he still decided to continue to instruct
the payments. And as Ive mentioned above, Mr S was asked many questions which closely
matched what was happening between him and Mr B, but this wasnt enough for him to
realise that he was being scammed.
As well as asking questions, I think its important that banks provide context to those
questions and highlight how common scams work. A consumer may not understand the
importance of the questions being asked without this. In the circumstances here Barclays did
a good job of asking a lot of questions. But during the calls Ive listened to, on occasions,
they could have provided more context to those questions. It may be that such context was
provided during branch interactions that I have no detailed record of. But either way Im not
persuaded this would have made a difference to what Mr S would have done, particularly as
context was given during some of the interactions with S.
Everything Mr S said (and likely would have said to the Police) was plausible. Im well aware
that investing the proceeds of an equity release and property sale into cryptocurrency
certainly sounds like an incredibly risky thing to do. But it can be a legitimate investment
and Mr S very much presented it in that way, without contradicting himself or saying anything
that would indicate he was being scammed. Barclays were under no obligation to provide
investment advice or to prevent Mr S making potentially unwise decisions. They were
obliged to try to prevent fraud, scams and the misappropriation of funds. And in the
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think anything that Barclays (or the Police)
reasonably could have said to Mr S would have resulted in him not sending the payments he
did.
Ive considered whether there was enough here for Barclays to have refused Mr S
instructions altogether. This is a significant step for any bank to take given their regulatory
obligations as a payment services provider. To be clear, I do not expect a bank to refuse a
payment request lightly or without reasonable grounds for suspecting fraud. And, based on
all Mr S had told Barclays, I dont think they would have had grounds to suspect fraud such
that refusing his instructions would have been a reasonable expectation.
I dont think there was anything conclusively indicative of fraud in the activity on Mr S
account. And as Ive mentioned above, Mr S presented himself to Barclays as an individual
wishing to invest in cryptocurrency without there being other indicators of a potential scam.
During one of the calls with S he said: If you dont know anything about Cryptocurrency its
a growing market. I have lots of investments. I invest in gold and stocks and shares and all
sorts of other things and Ive decided to invest in cryptocurrencies.
Im also satisfied that, upon receipt of notification of fraud, there wasnt anything Barclays
couldve done that wouldve resulted in the recovery of more of Mr S funds.
Mr S says that at the time of the scam he was vulnerable due to his age, health and being a
widower. However, in a call with Barclays (following the scam), Mr S was asked if he needed
additional support. And he responded that other than the stress caused by the scam he wasin good health and didnt need support. I wouldnt consider Mr S to be vulnerable based
solely on his age (which is in his 70s). And Im not persuaded that Barclays treated Mr S
unfairly here. Mr S came across as a confident and articulate customer. And even if he was
vulnerable, Im not persuaded this is something Barclays reasonably could have known or
ought to have ascertained at the time.
As I said at the start of my decision, Im genuinely sorry to hear of the terrible crime
committed by the scammers and I hope the authorities are successful in prosecuting those
responsible and that this results in redress for Mr S. But as I dont think Barclays are
responsible for any errors that caused or contributed to the loss, hindered its recovery, or are
obliged to provide a refund under the CRM code, Im not intending to tell them to do anything
further to resolve this complaint.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded with some comments 
which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he believes Barclays have failed with regard to their Anti Money Laundering 
(AML) obligations. He points out that his recently opened account had very significant sums 
paid into it which were then paid away. He thinks Barclays should have frozen his account 
and established the source of funds. Mr S believes Barclays also should have checked the 
reasons for the equity release and that this wasnt done under duress.
Even if I were to find that Barclays should have questioned Mr S about the source of the 
funds paid into his account, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. The incoming money came from an equity release, something Mr S would have 
easily been able to evidence. And if hed been questioned about the reasons for this, I think 
its most likely he wouldnt have shared the true purpose. I say this because he told the 
equity release company a different story as Ive referenced above. And he also didnt share 
the full details of what was happening during the numerous interventions by both Barclays 
and S. Much of my reasoning around this point is set out above in my provisional decision. 
Mr S says that he didnt have complete control of his account and that there were numerous 
times that the scammer took control via software and authorised transactions himself or 
manipulated Mr S to do so. He also says that the scammer created wallets on the crypto 
platforms and had the credentials to these. Firstly, I dont think I can fairly conclude that any 
of the payments from Mr S Barclays account were unauthorised. Even if some were 
physically keyed from his account by the scammer as is alleged, I think its most likely Mr S 
had knowledge of them at the time such that they were authorised payments. The evidence 
surrounding the challenges of these payments by Barclays (with ample opportunity for Mr S 
to report any unauthorised payments at the time) is compelling. And whilst I appreciate and 
accept that Mr S was socially engineered and cruelly manipulated / tricked by the scammer, 
this doesnt mean he didnt authorise the payments in question. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the messages between him and the scammer 
as well as where he has highlighted some of the messages in which the scammer indicates 
he had opened a new account in his name. I acknowledged that exchange (from February 
2022) in my provisional decision. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I still think its 
most likely Mr S opened the accounts with C and K himself, albeit following instructions from 
the scammer. Mr S has also sought to clarify some details around the home equity release. He says this 
was all the scammers idea and it was the scammer who sourced the home renovations 
quote to support the equity release application. He says he was again socially engineered to 
go along with this. Im prepared to accept what Mr S has said in this regard. I agree Mr S 
was influenced by cruel scammers. But whether Mr S initiated or was tricked into taking the 
actions he did, and whoever sourced the quote and started the equity release process, this 
doesnt change my mind as to the outcome of the complaint. 
Again, Im sorry Mr S has suffered such a loss to a despicable scam. But as I dont think this 
is something Barclays are responsible for, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can 
require them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman