DRN-3480464
The complaint
Miss M complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans
she couldnt afford to repay. Had Morses carried out proportionate checks it wouldve
discovered that Miss M was having financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss M was advanced 6 home collected loans between July 2013 and May 2016. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
4 £200.00 30/07/2013 13/03/2014 32 £10.00
5 £100.00 13/03/2014 21/10/2014 32 £5.00
6 £100.00 23/10/2014 09/06/2015 34 £5.00
7 £100.00 09/06/2015 02/02/2016 34 £5.00
8 £100.00 18/12/2015 19/04/2016 20 £7.50
9 £150.00 24/05/2016 27/12/2016 33 £7.50
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped
Miss Ms commitment to Morses was greater. For example, when loans 7 and 8 overlapped 
Miss Ms commitment to Morses was £12.50 per week.
The numbering of the loans is based on Morses table that it provided the Financial
Ombudsman, and which was used by the adjudicator in her assessment. Its likely Miss M
had 3 further loans preceding loan 4 in the table above.
Morses has told us it is likely these earlier loans were provided by a different company. This
other company was acquired by Morses in March 2014, and it only took responsibility for any
loans that were still active at the time of purchase. Therefore, this decision will only be able
to deal with the loans listed in the table above.
Following Miss Ms complaint Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried
out affordability checks before the loans were advanced and based on the information it
received it was reasonable to lend.
Miss Ms representative didnt agree with the findings in the final response letter and instead
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator. She concluded it was reasonable for loans 4
 7 in the table above to have been advanced. So, she didnt uphold the complaint about this
lending.
However, she thought loans 8 and 9 shouldnt have been granted because the lending
pattern was now harmful for Miss M. So, she upheld the complaint about those final two
loans.
Neither Miss M nor her representative responded to the adjudicators assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in summary, Morses said:
Although the loans were taken out consecutively Miss M couldve closed the lending 
had she wished.
There is no evidence Miss M was using other sources of borrowing to repay her 
loans.
Miss M didnt tell Morses about any financial difficulties.
Miss M didnt get into arrears on any of her loan accounts.
Miss M confirmed the income and expenditure to confirm it was an accurate 
reflection of her circumstances.
Miss M had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the weekly repayments 
for loans 8 and 9.
Morses says it is reasonable to lend to a customer who it believes can afford the loan 
repayments and sustainable.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me and I issued my provisional 
decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold Miss Ms complaint, based on the 
information I had available at the time. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss M (or her representative) dont appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators
findings in relation to loans 4  7. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer
think that I need to make a finding about it. But for completeness I dont disagree with the
adjudicators assessment that it wasnt unfair of Morses to have provided these loans. But I
have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between
Morses and Miss M.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
8 and 9.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Loans 8 and 9
The adjudicator upheld these loans because the adjudicator concluded these loans were 
harmful for Miss M because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded these loans were now harmful to Miss M.
I accept, that Miss M had been indebted with Morses for just around two years, which in
some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive and overlapped, which could show that Miss M had a continued need for credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that these loans were for fairly small sums to be repaid over
a longer period of time, longer than say a payday loan. Miss M borrowed the same capital
sum for loans 2  8 and loan 9 was only marginal larger. In summary, Miss Ms indebtedness
didnt seem to be increasing unsustainably.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems when Miss M had settled previous
loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised these
loans were unsustainable for Miss M, but that doesnt mean Morse did all it shouldve done
before advancing these loans.
Morses hasnt provided us with the income and expenditure information Miss M declared forloan 8. But, for loan 9 Miss M declared a weekly income of £250 with outgoings of £178
which gave Miss M a disposal weekly amount of £72 in order to meet her repayment of
£7.50 per week. This may have then led Morses to believe that Miss M had sufficient
disposable income and could afford the loan repayment.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Miss M may have been reliant on
this credit. In addition, the information Morses collected from Miss M for loan 9, didnt leave
her with too much left over each week in order to cover any unexpected costs. These factors
ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Miss Ms financial
position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Miss M declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Miss M could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ms actual financial position to
ensure loans 8 and 9 were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Miss Ms credit
report.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Miss Ms general financial
position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Miss M couldnt afford them.
Miss Ms representative hasnt, to date provided copies of Miss Ms bank statements so I
dont know and cant say what Morses may have seen had it verified the information she
provided through her bank statements.
However, Miss Ms representative has provided a copy of her credit report which was
generated in March 2021. So, there will be information contained within the report that
covers the period of time around loans 8 and 9 were granted. Ive considered the credit
report to see whether had Morses looked into Miss Ms finances in more detail it wouldve
concluded these loans werent affordable for her.
Looking at the credit report I can see three credit accounts were open when loans 8 and
9 were approved. These are a mobile phone, mail order and a credit card account. However,
the information Ive been given doesnt show Miss Ms monthly costs for these credit
accounts.
This means I can only conclude that Miss M did have some other outstanding credit. But I 
dont know whether this may or may not have made a difference to the affordability of these 
loans because the credit file provided doesnt provide the cost of those agreements.
Based on the information Ive been given to date, had Morses done further checks, such as
looking at Miss Ms full credit report, it wouldve likely concluded these loans were affordable
and sustainable for her.
So, without any further information from Miss M about her other living costs which, its
difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better checks.Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Miss M. As this is
the case, Im intending to not uphold Miss Ms complaint about loans 8 and 9 and therefore
Im intending to not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Response to provisional decision 
Both Miss M and Morses were asked to provide any further information they wanted 
considering as soon as possible, but no later than 13 May 2022. 
Neither party has responded to the provisional decision and an adjudicator has chased for a 
response. As the deadline for a response has now passed, I see no reason not to issue the 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
reached in the provisional decision. So, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint for the same 
reasons as outlined in the provisional decision. 
For completeness, I still dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check when it granted 
loans 8 and 9. But, Miss Ms credit file provided doesnt show any signs of either financial 
difficulties or over indebtedness. So, I dont think that Morses made an unreasonable 
decision to lend. 
As that is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman