DRN-2735728
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about delays in obtaining a 
Bounce Back Loan from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Ts director, Mr W, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T banked with Barclays and wanted to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr W 
attempted to apply shortly after the loan scheme was launched on 4 May 2020, but was 
unable to submit Ts application online. When attempting to do so, a message advised him 
that he needed to speak to the bank. He logged a request for a call back on 13 May.
Barclays contacted Mr W on 17 May and told him that he needed to update some 
information held with Companies House before Ts application could proceed. This was due 
to differences in how Mr Ws name was recorded on the banks systems and Companies 
House records. 
Mr W made changes with Companies House the following day, and he followed up with 
Barclays on a number of occasions with a view to submitting Ts Bounce Back Loan 
application thereafter.
Barclays confirmed to Mr W on 4 June that the application could proceed. Mr W duly 
submitted an application, which Barclays approved. T received the loan on 6 June.
Mr W complained about how Barclays had handled Ts application. The bank apologised for 
the delay, but said that this was due to the need for further information  which it needed in 
order to carry out the checks expected of it before lending. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of 
our investigators. In summary, she said:
Barclays hadnt made an error in ensuring that information was recorded correctly 
before allowing T to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. The information held with 
Companies House needed updating, and that was Ts responsibility rather than the 
banks. And the discrepancy wasnt down to an error on Barclays part.
Once Mr W had updated the Companies House records and notified Barclays, the 
bank had all it needed to proceed. But it had taken three weeks to process Ts 
application. Even bearing in mind the unprecedented demand and operational 
challenges that Barclays was facing at the time, she thought this was an 
unreasonable delay.
T had been put to some inconvenience in chasing things up with Barclays from 
18 May until the loan was paid, for which she thought the bank should pay £100 
compensation. But while Mr W had said T incurred some financial losses as a result 
of the delay, hed not provided any evidence of these  so she couldnt recommend a 
further award.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mr W didnt. He didnt think £100 was 
sufficient compensation for the poor service T had received and the time hed spent chasing 
things up. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Lenders were required to undertake certain checks before approving an application for a 
Bounce Back Loan, including Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and anti-fraud 
checks. I think it was reasonable for Barclays, in fulfilling these, to ensure that the 
information it held about T, including about Mr W as its director, matched records held by 
Companies House before it would proceed with Ts application.
The information in question was a discrepancy with Mr Ws name. Barclays records 
reflected the information Mr W provided when opening Ts account, so I dont think the bank 
was at fault for the discrepancy. And once Mr W got in touch to discuss Ts inability to submit 
an application, the bank dealt with his query promptly in the circumstances. 
However, after Mr W had rectified the discrepancy, there was a slight delay on Barclays part 
in updating its records to allow the application to proceed. Mr W updated the records with 
Companies House on 18 May, and the bank instructed the update of its system. But this 
wasnt done until 4 June. 
Like our investigator, I appreciate that at the time of Ts application, Barclays was dealing 
with the seismic impact of the pandemic and unprecedented level of demand for borrowing 
under the government-backed loan schemes. But T was entitled to expect its application to 
be assessed within a matter of days as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
I think the delay put T to some inconvenience. While still unable to proceed with Ts 
application, Mr W called and emailed the bank on a number of occasions to chase things up. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think it would be fair for Barclays to pay T 
compensation of £100 for the inconvenience it was put to as a result of the three-week delay 
on the banks part. 
I know Mr W doesnt think that £100 is sufficient. But hes not provided us with details of any 
financial losses that T incurred as a result of the delay  which for the reasons above I think 
was only from 18 May, rather than when he first attempted to apply. And while I dont doubt 
that the matter caused some stress and worry to Mr W personally, as the complaint is 
brought by T that isnt something I can compensate him for. So all I can fairly require 
Barclays to compensate T for is the inconvenience it was caused, for which I think £100 is 
fair. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay T compensation of £100.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman