DRN-3414509
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they hold with The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited. They are unhappy with the maturity value they 
received as they believe that the values they were given each month over the two years 
before the maturity were misleading. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were sent annual statements for the policy. That sent in June 2020 provided 
them with a then current value of £49,285.85 and in August 2021 that had increased to 
£56,708.10. 
On 25 October 2021 Prudential sent Mr and Mrs B a maturity pack for their endowment 
policy, reminding them that their policy was due to mature the following month. The maturity 
value was detailed as £58,433.90.
Prudential sent Mr and Mrs B a reminder on 17 November 2021 that their policy was 
maturing shortly. It again enclosed the necessary paperwork for them to complete to claim 
the maturity value. It said that the maturity value would be £58,433.90. 
On 6 December 2021 Prudential wrote to Mr and Mrs B and confirmed that its previous 
letters had quoted an incorrect maturity value. It apologised for the inconvenience this might 
have caused them. It confirmed the correct maturity value of £56,094.47. 
On 10 December 2021 Mr and Mrs B complained to Prudential, asking how the maturity 
value of the policy could be lower than the amounts theyd been quoted over the phone.
Prudential responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on 16 December 2021. It explained that 
system migrations and upgrades had meant that it had been unable to provide Mr and Mrs B 
with valuations for their policy on their online account. This had more recently been reflected 
in it being unable to provide valuations over the phone too, as the systems hadnt been 
showing accurate values for policies. Unfortunately, it had continued sending Mr and Mrs B 
annual statements, which included incorrect values and it had also provided incorrect values 
over the phone. Prudential accepted that this would have led Mr and Mrs B to think they 
would receive a higher maturity value than they should have. Prudential apologised and paid 
them £700 for the distress and inconvenience this mistake caused. However, it said that the 
maturity value it had informed Mr and Mrs B about in its recent letter was correct and the 
amount it would be paying when the policy matured.
The policy matured on 20 December 2021 for £56,094.47. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Prudentials response and referred the complaint to us. 
When they did so they told us that had they known the values they were being given were 
incorrect earlier, they could have surrendered the policy and reinvested the money 
elsewhere to make up the shortfall. They said they understood the values for such policies 
could vary, but felt that being informed the value was lower than theyd been led to expect it 
to be a week after they paid the last premium was not acceptable. They said that the £700 
Prudential had paid them didnt cover the loss theyd suffered.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She confirmed that she couldnt ask Prudential to pay the incorrect maturity value to 
Mr and Mrs B, because they had never been entitled to that amount. In relation to the upset 
and inconvenience theyd suffered, taking into account the length of time incorrect values 
had been given to Mr and Mrs B for two years, which had raised their expectations, she 
thought the £700 paid by Prudential was appropriate. In relation to Mr and Mrs Bs 
suggestion that had they been given correct values for the policy, they might have 
surrendered it and reinvested it, and been in better position, the investigator accepted that 
might have happened. However, what the outcome of that would have been, couldnt be 
known and, given the effect the Covid-19 pandemic had on financial markets, she wasnt 
persuaded that it could be concluded they would have been in a better position that they 
were at maturity. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They asked what proof there was 
that the maturity value theyd received had been calculated correctly. They commented that 
they hadnt received a final statement with all the details of the maturity payment. They 
questioned that Prudential had said it could calculate the maturity value a month before 
maturity. They questioned how the problems responsible for the error could have been 
allowed to happen. In addition, they highlighted that there were two policyholders and they 
felt that £700 between them was little redress for the distress and inconvenience that had 
happened to them both.
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs further comments, but they didnt change her 
conclusions. She pointed out that technical issues can happen to anyone or any business 
and our role is to determine whether a business has done enough to compensate a 
consumer that has been affected by a problem. She also explained that it was not our role to 
make punitive awards to punish a business. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was 
decided the complaint should be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, when a business has made a mistake, the aim of any redress 
awarded is to place the consumer in as close a position to that which they would have been 
in, but for the mistake. In this case, the problem with Prudentials systems gave them 
incorrect information, but didnt affect the actual value of their policy. So at maturity 
Mr and Mrs B received the amount they always would have and were entitled to. As such, I 
cant ask Prudential to pay Mr and Mrs B the incorrect maturity value that was detailed in the 
earlier letters from it. 
Mr and Mrs B have speculated that had they been told earlier, they might have surrendered 
the policy early, invested that money elsewhere and been financially better off by the 
maturity date. It is impossible to know what Mr and Mrs B would have done if they had been 
consistently given correct information about the policy value, or if they would have done 
anything at all. So I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Prudential to make a payment 
for a financial loss based on such speculation.
However, it is clear that their expectations were raised and until the beginning of December 
2021, they were expecting a maturity value approximately £2,500 higher than they received. 
As I have said above, I cant ask Prudential to pay them the higher value, as they were never entitled to that money, but it is appropriate for them to be compensated for the upset and 
disappointment they have suffered. Although I know that Mr and Mrs B wont agree, I am 
satisfied that the £700 Prudential has offered them is sufficient. As our investigator has 
explained, the purpose of compensation is not to punish a business or to meet disappointed 
expectations. 
Mr and Mrs B have commented that they havent been given a breakdown for how the 
maturity value was calculated. This isnt something that I would necessarily have expected 
Prudential to have done, but if this is something that they still want, they should ask 
Prudential for that information and any further information they want.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman