DRN-2233579
The complaint
Ms Es complained that the pet insurance policy she bought from Pinnacle insurance PLC 
(Pinnacle) in 2018 wasnt underwritten until she made claims in April 2020.  And that, when 
Pinnacle underwrote the policy, they excluded the conditions Ms E was claiming for.
What happened
In 2018, Ms E used a price comparison website to buy pet insurance from Pinnacle to cover 
her dog.  She renewed the policy the following year.
In April 2020, Ms Es dog needed veterinary treatment for damage to his cruciate ligament 
and removal of a cyst/skin tag.  The dog was treated, and Ms E submitted a claim under the 
policy.  
Pinnacle rejected the claim.  They explained that theyd not underwritten the policy until     
Ms E made her claim.  And they said that theyd reviewed Ms Es dogs clinical history.  They 
saw from that that the dog had had similar issues before Ms E had first bought her policy.  
So Pinnacle decided that claims relating to cruciate ligament issues, skin tags and cysts 
should be excluded from cover.
Ms E complained to Pinnacle.  She was unhappy that her claim had been rejected.  She 
didnt think it was fair that Pinnacle had only put exclusions on her policy when shed made a 
claim.  And she didnt agree with Pinnacle that the conditions were existing.  She said the 
previous treatment of her dogs cruciate ligament had been on his opposite side.  And she 
said the cyst/skin tag was only treated when its appearance changed  before that, it was 
just a patch of dry skin being monitored.
Pinnacle considered Ms Es complaint and rejected it.  They relied in their response on the 
fact that both conditions were recorded in her dogs veterinary notes before Ms E bought her 
policy.
Ms E brought her complaint to us.  As well as supplying details of the complaint shed made 
to Pinnacle, Ms E told us that the information about her dogs health had been available from 
her vets when she bought her policy.
Our investigator considered the matter.  She said the policy terms meant Ms E shouldve 
disclosed her dogs previous treatment when she bought the policy.  But Ms E had answered 
no to the question:
Has your pet shown any sign or symptom of any injury or illness or been unwell, either now 
or at any time in the past.
She was satisfied that  if theyd known about the dogs previous treatment - Pinnacle 
wouldve applied the exclusions to Ms Es policy when she bought it.  And she thought the 
question was clear.  So she concluded that Pinnacle didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve Ms Es complaint.  
Ms E didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Es complaint.  Ill explain why.
Insurers have to consider claims promptly and fairly, and in line with the policy conditions.  
My role is to decide whether Pinnacle have done that in this case.
Ms E thinks its unfair that the conditions she was claiming for werent excluded until she 
made her claim.  Ive thought carefully about that because I understand why that feels unfair 
to her.
Pinnacle have sent us copies of Ms Es replies to the series of questions she had to answer 
as part of buying the policy.  Ive quoted the relevant question above.  And Ive seen that   
Ms E answered no to that question.
Ms Es said that she doesnt remember exactly what questions she was asked.  But shed 
have answered them honestly.  I have no doubt thats the case.  But Ms E has also said that 
she doesnt have the time to consider the detail of questions on a website.  And she may 
have answered the question on the basis that her dog was in good health when she bought 
the policy.
Ive considered the question Pinnacle asked.  And Ive seen that it asks about:
any sign or symptom of any injury or illness or been unwell, either now or at any time in 
the past
I think its clear from this that Pinnacle wanted to know about Ms Es dogs clinical history.  
And that they were relying on Ms E to provide this information.  As well as asking the 
question during the purchase process, Ive seen that the insurance certificate Ms E was sent 
has a section headed Important  Please Read which repeats the assumption the question 
made.  
I think from what Ive seen the most likely reason Pinnacle didnt exclude the conditions 
before Ms E made her claims was that they didnt know about them.  I appreciate Ms Es 
said that Pinnacle couldve checked her dogs records when she bought the policy.  But I 
dont think its reasonable to say they shouldve done that when theyd asked her for the 
information.
Ive seen that Ms E is also unhappy Pinnacles categorisation of her dogs conditions.  Shes 
said there was no pre-existing cyst  her vet treated the cyst as soon as it developed.  And 
shes said she doesnt think cruciate ligament damage on different sides should be 
considered as the same condition.
Ive thought about this.  But Ive seen the vet noted a suspected cyst several months before 
Ms E bought the policy.  And that, a few days before the policy started, the vet noted the cyst 
was getting larger.  So Im satisfied it was fair for Pinnacle to say this condition existed 
before the policy started  and that meant it wasnt covered.
And Ive seen the policy states:
When applying a maximum benefit or exclusion, we will consider bilateral conditions, 
recurring conditions or related conditions as one condition.The policy defines a bilateral condition as:
any condition affecting bilateral body parts of your pet such as (but not limited to) ears, 
eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and patellae
So Im satisfied that Pinnacle were acting in accordance with the policy terms when they 
declined Ms Es claim in respect of her dogs cruciate ligament.
I know Ms E will be disappointed by my decision.  But Ive not seen anything which leads me 
to conclude that Pinnacle shouldve done anything differently in relation to her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Ms Es complaint about Pinnacle Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman