DRN-1829373
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines 
decision to settle a claim on a shared 50%50% liability basis. Mr and Mrs D believe the third 
party involved in the incident was completely at fault when Mrs D made a claim under her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D had parked her car at a garden centre car park. When she and Mr D returned to the 
car, a lorry was parked obstructing their exit. Mrs D said she was in the process of 
manoeuvring the car so that she could exit the car park when the lorry driver turned left into 
an access section. The rear of the lorry collided with the rear of Mrs Ds car. 
The lorry driver said that he was parked waiting to access a goods section and was parked 
at an angle. He was then able to proceed and drove forward to turn left. But as he did so, 
Mrs Ds car reversed from a car park space and collided into the rear of the lorry. 
Mr and Mrs D provided UKI with a copy of CCTV footage from the garden centre which 
showed the collision. 
The lorry drivers insurer recommended the claim be settled on a shared 50%50% basis. UKI 
agreed and told Mr and Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt think UKIs decision was fair as they believed the lorry driver caused the 
incident. They believed the footage showed the lorry drivers account wasnt correct. They 
asked us to look at their complaint. They were concerned as to the impact of having the 
claim recorded in this way and how it might affect the premium they pay for insurance in 
future. 
Our investigator said that we dont decide liability. He explained that insurers tend to factor in 
previous claims, even if they are non fault into the price they decide to charge. So he didnt 
think UKI had acted unreasonably. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She says the lorry driver was parked in a restricted access area for 15 
minutes before she began to carry out a manoeuvre to exit the car park. Shes unhappy that 
the other drivers insurer didnt mention this and that UKI hasnt taken it into account, even 
though a manager who witnessed the footage confirmed this. 
Mrs D is very disappointed that neither parties requested full CCTV footage until after it had 
been deleted a month later. She says this would have showed how long the lorry was parked 
for and where Mrs D was originally parked. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Ds policy with UKI has a very common term which Ive seen in all motor insurance 
policies. This term says that UKI can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This 
means that UKI might make a decision Mrs D doesnt agree with, but the policy allows UKI to 
do so. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer has treated its 
customer fairly.  
Ive studied the copy of the CCTV footage provided by the manager of the garden centre. 
The lorry conceals Mrs Ds car from view until just before the collision, as it turns. From this 
footage, I think its a matter of a second or two between Mrs Ds reverse lights coming on 
and the collision. Its very difficult to tell from the footage if Mrs Ds car was stationary or not 
due to how briefly its in view before impact between her car and the rear of the lorry. 
I can understand the point Mrs D makes about what led her to be parked in this position 
before the impact. She says that she had been correctly parked before  but that the lorry 
driver had arrived afterwards and parked in such a way as to obstruct her from exiting. She 
said the lorry had been parked there for around 15 minutes. Email exchanges between Mr D 
and the manager of the garden centre car park show the manager believed the lorry would 
have been parked there for about this amount of time. He explained that the driver would 
have been waiting for a light to turn green as another vehicle would have been unloading in 
a delivery bay.
UKIs notes show that this was discussed with Mrs D. UKI said it thought Mrs D should have 
checked if the lorry was moving behind her. Mrs D felt the lorry driver should have done this 
also, which UKI agreed. UKI said the footage showed Mrs Ds reverse lights come on 
showing she was carrying out a manoeuvre while the lorry was moving and she had a duty 
of care to check it was clear to do so. The space where Mrs D was on impact meant the lorry 
didnt have sufficient space to turn. UKI agreed the lorry driver held some responsibility for 
failing to see Mrs Ds car when he moved forward. On this basis, it thought its decision to 
agree to settle the claim on a 50% 50% basis was the best outcome. 
I think UKIs decision not to contact the garden centre for further footage - when it had 
footage of the incident from Mrs D - was reasonable at the time. Unfortunately due to the 
time that passed, it wasnt possible to obtain additional footage when liability was disputed 
as it was no longer available. 
Mrs D says UKI didnt ask for her version of events. But I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
rely on Mr Ds account on the day of the incident on Mrs Ds behalf when he called. Insurers 
dont always ask for a written statement in all cases if they dont believe it necessary. And I 
dont think this has made a difference to the outcome.
I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs D is with UKIs decision. But I think it properly 
investigated the claim and reached its decision reasonably. I think UKI initially looked to 
settle the claim on a non fault basis. But I cant conclude that it acted unreasonably when it 
decide to settle the claim on a shared 50%50% basis. 
Mrs D says she has financial losses for car hire and hasnt received half of the excess back. 
She will need to raise these issues with UKI as this doesnt form part of this complaint and 
my decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman