DRN-1902592
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has charged him 
an excess of £400 on his car insurance policy when he made a claim for arson.
What happened
Mr J made a claim on his car insurance in 2019 when it was damaged by an act of 
vandalism.
The terms and conditions of his policy say that where a car has been damaged by 
vandalism, LV would pay for repairs to the car, replace whats damaged, or pay the market 
value of the car at the time of the damage. This aspect of the complaint is being considered 
separately. 
The policy schedule also states that an excess of £400 applies. And thats whats being 
considered in this complaint  i.e. whether Mr J should be required to pay this. 
Mr J doesnt think he should have to pay the excess as it wasnt him who set fire to the car. 
He also referenced having excess protection.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He thought it was clear that Mr J would have to 
pay the excess in this case. But Mr J didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this is likely to be a disappointment to Mr J, and Im sorry to hear that his car 
was vandalised, I wont be asking LV to waive the excess  Ill explain why.
Having considered the terms and conditions, I think its very clear that Mr J would have to 
pay an excess in this scenario. Under the section relating to vandalism, it says If your car is 
damaged by vandalism, you wont lose your NCD. Youll need to report the incident to the 
police and provide us with the crime reference number and pay the excess. I understand 
that it must feel frustrating to have to pay an excess when the event that damaged the car 
was something Mr J wasnt involved in at all (unlike in an accident where a policyholder is 
driving). But I think its clear from the documentation that the excess would be payable. 
A letter sent to Mr J after the incident provided some frequently asked questions. LV 
responded to whether an excess is payable if the incident is not the policyholders fault. It 
said, If youre not at fault for the incident and weve obtained full admission of liability from 
the responsible partys insurer then you will not have to pay your policy excess. This seems 
to be the only scenario where the excess isnt payable, and it, unfortunately, doesnt apply in 
Mr Js case. Mr J mentioned having excess protection. I havent seen sufficient evidence to support that 
Mr J had this kind of cover, and LV said he didnt have it. Instead, it appears that he had 
protection for his no claims discount. 
So, having thought about everything Ive seen and been told, I think LV made it clear that the 
excess of £400 would be payable. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to 
waive this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman