DRN-3394112
The complaint
Mr K says Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K took out a 24-month instalment loan from Bamboo on 17 July 2019 for £2,000. The
monthly repayment was £116.04 and the total repayable was £2,784.89. I will refer to this as
loan 1. He then took out a top up loan to help with seasonal costs on 14 November 2019.
This was set up as a new loan and at the same time he repaid loan 1 in full. So the total
value of the loan was £2,385.70. His monthly repayment increased to £138.42 and the total
repayable was £3,322.07 over 24 months. I will refer to this as loan 2. Mr K settled loan 2 the
month after he received the funds, before any scheduled repayment was due.
Mr K says Bamboo did not complete proper affordability checks and should not have lent to
him.
Our investigator found Bamboo did not complete proportionate checks for either loan. She
explained though as Mr K was unable to provide bank statements to give more information
about his financial position at the time, she could not conclude that better checks would have
shown loan 1 to be unaffordable for Mr K. She thought however that even from the checks it
had done for loan 2 it should have realised there was a risk loan 2 would be unaffordable.
Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. Its key points, in summary, were:
Mr K had no defaults, County Court Judgements or missed payments  he was
managing his existing credit excellently;
it was reasonable to use statistical data to estimate his living costs based on his
circumstances;
Mr Ks indebtedness had reduced between loans 1 and 2 after excluding the balance
of loan 1, hed opened no new credit and continued to manage his credit well;
whilst he was almost at his limits on his credit cards he had repaid more than the
minimum payment in several months prior;
on the application call for loan 2 he explained his financial situation was likely to
improve after Christmas as some of his other loans would be paid off early in 2020; 
and
as Mr K settled loan 2 early there was no evidence of detriment.
I have reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. 
An extract follows and forms part this final decision. I asked for both parties to submit any 
new comments and evidence by 23 March 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the loans. On
both occasions it asked about his income, residential and employment status, and number of
dependents. It also checked Mr Ks credit file to understand his current credit commitments
and credit history. It checked his declared income using a third-party income verification tool
and made some assumptions about his living expenses based on national averages. It
asked about the purpose of the loans, the first was for home improvements and the second
to cover Christmas costs. From these checks combined Bamboo concluded Mr K had
enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loans.
I dont think Bamboos affordability checks were proportionate. Ill explain why. A point that is
relevant to both loans: Bamboo argues it was reasonable to use national statistics to
estimate Mr Ks living costs, and the regulator supports this approach. I would say that whilst
this may be a proportionate approach for certain applications, for the reasons that are set out
below Im not satisfied it was here.
Loan 1
Bamboos checks showed Mr K would have disposable income of £513.56 so I can see the
loan appeared affordable on a pounds and pence basis. But I think there were some things
in the information it gathered that ought to have led Bamboo to carry out a fuller financial
review. At the time of application Mr K was already spending around 35% of his income on
his existing credit commitments, plus his credit cards were near their limit. In certain
circumstances that might have been enough for the lender to conclude any further borrowing
would not be sustainably affordable. But the monthly repayment here was a relatively low
percentage of Mr Ks income, all his existing credit commitments were up-to-date and he
wasnt overdrawn based on the credit check. But in the round I think Bamboo ought to have
carried out a fuller financial review to make sure it understood Mr Ks actual financial
position.
We asked for copies of Mr Ks bank statements from the three months prior to his application
to get an understanding of what better checks would most likely have shown Bamboo. I am
not saying Bamboo had to do this but it is one way for me to understand Mr Ks financial
position at the time. However, he is unable to provide them, so I have no evidence that 
better
checks would have indicated Mr K was unable to sustainably afford this loan.
It follows I cant conclude Bamboo was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr K.
Loan 2
Bamboos checks showed Mr K would have disposable income of £1,158.39. But as at the
time of loan 1 I think there were a number of things that ought to have led Bamboo to carry
out fuller checks. Mr Ks income had increased by over 35% in just four months. Given his
occupation this could be plausible, but I think Bamboo should have found a way to check his
actual salary and to make sure it understood any monthly fluctuations. His credit cards were
even closer to their limit and the pound value of his debt servicing costs had increased.
Bamboo has pointed out that they had decreased as a percentage of his income but given I
think it ought to have obtained proof of his actual income this point is somewhat moot.
The investigator flagged that Mr Ks overall indebtedness had increased; Bamboo argued
not  if you excluded loan 1, although that wasnt its stance in the final response letter where
it acknowledged a small increase. But I accept there wasnt a significant change in Mr Ks
debt level and he hadnt missed any payments or taken out other lines of credit since loan 1,
and he had made repayments above the monthly minimum on his cards  so there were no
obvious indicators of financial instability. But Mr K was increasing his debt to borrow an
amount of around half of what Bamboo had calculated his monthly disposable income to be.
So given that, and for the reasons set out above I think Bamboo should have carried out a
fuller financial review.However, as I have not had sight of Mr Ks bank statements I am unable to know what better
checks would most likely have shown Bamboo. And so again I cant fairly say that better
checks would have indicated Mr K was unable to sustainably afford this loan.
It follows I cant conclude Bamboo was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr K.
I havent seen any evidence Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in any
other way.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further comments to make. 
Mr K did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence it follows I have no reason to change the findings 
or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. So I cant fairly conclude Bamboo was wrong 
to give either loan to Mr K. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman