DRN-3553876
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money he lost after 
he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
There appears to be some differences in the version of events presented to RBS when Mr M 
raised his fraud claim with it, against the version of events brought to this service by Mr M, 
who has said he has a representative supporting him with his claim.
RBS has said it was led to believe Mr M lost money as part of a recovery room scam, 
whereas Mr M has told this service the money was lost following attempts he made to invest 
and make money. RBS were also told that Mr M was contacted out of the blue by 
fraudsters, but our service has been told Mr M expressed an interest online in investing. 
Alongside this, RBS were told Mr M wasnt aware that such large payments were being 
made from his account, but in his recollections to this service Mr M has confirmed that he 
made the payments and forwarded them onto the fraudsters himself.
Our Investigator has sort clarity on these points, and based on the evidence thats been 
presented, in summary, I understand the background to be as follows.
In or around March 2020, Mr M has said he was looking for investment opportunities and 
registered his interest online. Mr M believed the investment to be genuine, hes told us that 
he carried out some research and was unable to find any warnings or sufficient bad reviews 
about the company and believed that it was legitimate. But unknown to him at the time, Mr M 
was dealing with fraudsters.
Mr M has said the fraudsters instructed him to make payments to a cryptocurrency wallet 
(that Mr M opened and was in his name), and from there he should send the cryptocurrency 
on to accounts, that were controlled by the fraudsters. Mr M has said he could see his profits 
growing and he was able to withdraw some money from his cryptocurrency wallet. The 
fraudsters told him that to make the healthiest profits he should upgrade his account to a 
gold account, which required Mr M to make larger investments.
Mr M made transactions totalling £68,184 from his RBS account to his cryptocurrency wallet, 
which he sent on to fraudsters. Mr M was able to withdraw two payments, totalling 
£1,285.71, from the wallet, meaning he sadly suffered a loss of £66,898.29. A breakdown of 
the transactions made to and from Mr Ms cryptocurrency wallet are listed below;
13 March 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £2,115
19 March 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £10,015
23 March 2020 Credit from wallet £298.76
8 April 2020 Credit from wallet £986.95
20 April 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £10,015
23 April 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £10,015
24 April 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £9,015
30 April 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £8,920
7 May 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £9,515
18 May 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £8,065
16 June 2020 International Transfer (debit) to wallet £509
Mr M has said he realised this was a scam, when he was unable to withdraw any further 
funds and so, in September 2020, he contacted RBS to report the matter. RBS looked into 
Mr Ms fraud claim and issued its final response in August 2021, not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, this was because it didnt think a bank error had taken place. RBS 
noted to this service that some of the information it had received about events, was different 
to what had been presented to this service. It added that it didnt consider the payments     
Mr M had made were unusual (when compared to how Mr M usually ran his account) and 
that the loss had been through the cryptocurrency wallet, rather than through RBS.
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mr M then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, it was our Investigators view that the payments werent particularly unusual or 
suspicious, so he didnt think the behaviour would have caused RBS to be concerned.
Mr M didnt agree, he said RBS ought to have done more to protect him. He detailed the 
obligations that he considered the bank should have considered, including the banking 
protocol. Our Investigator responded to Mr M, in summary he explained that he didnt 
consider the banking protocol should have been invoked. He re-iterated to Mr M that he 
considered the payments he made to the fraudsters, were not out of character, when 
compared to how hes operated his account in the past. Our Investigator added that even if 
RBS had contacted Mr M, he thought, from what hed said, that Mr M would still have wanted 
to send the money.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Where there is conflicting evidence, as there is here, it is difficult to know precisely how 
events unfolded. So in such situations, I am required to reach my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words what I consider most likely given the available 
evidence. As I noted at the outset, there are some differences in the version of events 
recorded by RBS in its notes from around the time the scam was reported, when compared 
against recollections that have been presented to this service.
But, in any event, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that these payments were made as the 
result of a scam. So the crux of the matter, and what I must decide, is whether I consider 
RBS did enough to protect Mr M at the time he made the payments. And if I dont think it did, 
whether any further intervention by it would have made a difference.I also note that Mr M has told this service that over the years he has made a number of 
investments, that didnt work in his favour and he told our Investigator that he was unsure if 
some of those may have been scams. But Mr M has told our Investigator, and also said he 
told the bank, that he specifically only wanted to complain about the payments detailed in the 
schedule of payments detailed above. With this in mind, my decision here only relates to 
those payments.
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Mr M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He authorised the payments and under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSR) 2017 he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I can see in its final response to Mr Ms complaint, RBS refers to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). This is in place to help the victims of APP scams, like 
the one Mr M has fallen victim to. Signatories (including RBS) ought to refund customers in 
all but limited circumstances. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to all transactions made on a 
customers account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to the transactions Mr M made. This is 
because the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange into an account 
controlled by Mr M in his own name, from where he transferred the purchased 
cryptocurrency. So, because the payment didnt go directly to the scammer from Mr Ms RBS 
account, its not covered by the CRM Code.
The Code may not apply here, but there are other considerations beyond the PSRs. These 
include industry best practice and guidance, along with the broader regulatory landscape, 
concerning banks monitoring accounts for unusual and suspicious transactions. Broadly 
speaking, there will be times when a bank ought to step in to question an authorised 
payment. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider RBS 
should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Im mindful that RBS has said Mr Ms loss was through the cryptocurrency wallet, from 
where he sent money onto the fraudsters, so it said Mr Ms loss would actually be through 
them. But I consider that good industry practise, such as Ive mentioned above, to be 
applicable to RBS whether the loss occurred from Mr Ms RBS account, or further along in 
the payment journey.In this case, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with  
Mr M, when he made the transfers and he reported the fraud, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr M 
authorised the transactions. Because of this, RBS had an obligation to follow his instructions. 
RBS has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity 
or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice 
RBS shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
But having thought about this carefully, and while I think it is finely balanced in the individual 
circumstances of this case, I cant fairly say that the transactions made to the fraudsters 
were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr Ms normal account activity, that it ought 
to have alerted RBS that Mr M was at risk of financial harm. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence of the activity on Mr Ms account dating back to the early part of 
2018, and from this I can see that there are frequent payments, for what looks to be towards 
investments and cryptocurrency investments. During this time, I can see there are multiple 
occasions, where Mr M has made payments for amounts over £1,000, including payments 
for over £5,000. While I accept some of the transactions made to the fraudsters were higher 
than other payments made from the account, Im not persuaded they were so high that they 
ought to have appeared suspicious, when compared to how the account has previously been 
run.
Ive also considered the frequency of the payments. Overall, the payments to the fraudsters 
are spread over a number of months, but I can see that Mr M has made some of the 
payments to the fraudsters within a few days of each other. But, I dont consider this is 
unusual behaviour Mr M, and Im aware from looking at his account statements, that it is not 
uncommon for Mr M to make multiple payments for investments on the same day, including 
high value transactions. So I dont think this would have appeared as particularly unusual to 
RBS.
Im also mindful that a similar pattern of spending had previously occurred on Mr Ms 
account, in that a substantial credit had been received into the account, which was followed 
by multiple payments for investment purposes, which gradually, but not instantly, reduced 
the balance on his account, but without clearing it. Which is important here, as clearing a 
balance can sometimes, but of course not always, be an indicator that an account may be at 
risk. Ive seen that Mr M received a large credit into his account in early 2019, which was 
followed by multiple payments to investments over a number of months. Which is consistent 
with what happened here, with Mr M receiving a large credit into his account in February 
2020, before going on to make payments which he thought were for investments, but which 
were sadly to fraudsters.
I accept scams involving these cryptocurrency exchanges are quite prevalent. However, I 
need to keep in mind that buying cryptocurrency was and is a legitimate exercise. And there 
is a balance to be struck between identifying payments which could be fraudulent and 
ensuring legitimate payments are made with minimal disruption. Overall, on balance, I dont 
find the pattern of payments was so unusual or uncharacteristic, such that they looked 
suspicious or, therefore, that RBSs fraud alert systems ought to have triggered.
But even if I considered RBS should have intervened at some point and discussed the 
payments with Mr M before allowing them to be progressed, which for the avoidance of 
doubt and for reasons explained above I dont, Im not persuaded it would have made a 
difference. I think it more likely than not Mr M would have continued to make the payments 
and I dont think RBS would fairly and reasonably been able to have foreseen that Mr M was about to lose money to a fraudster. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how events 
wouldve transpired if RBS had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion on the 
balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence. 
Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate intervention by RBS 
wouldve prevented the scam from taking place. While it is now known with the benefit of 
hindsight that Mr M was being exploited by a fraudster, I dont think its more likely than not 
that an RBS employee would have been able to identify that Mr M may have been at risk of 
financial harm, by asking him questions about the payments, bearing in mind the number of 
previous investments Mr M had made.
Mr M has told us that the fraudster hadnt coached him what to say, if his bank had 
challenged him about the payments. So if RBS had spoken to him, Ive no reason to doubt 
that he would have told it the purpose of the payments were to invest. With this in mind Id 
have expected RBS to ask Mr M some further questions about the payments, in the context 
of the particular features of an investment scam. For example, it could have asked questions 
such as, but not limited to, what the payment was for, whether Mr M had been looking to 
invest, what research had he done and whether he had been cold called and what rate of 
return he was being offered.
Had it asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr M would have been able to 
answer these confidently and plausibly without concerning RBS that he might be at risk of 
financial harm or the victim of a scam. I say that as Mr M would have been able to tell RBS 
that he was looking to invest, had carried out some research on the company and hadnt 
found any warnings or bad reviews. Im also mindful that, at the time he was making the third 
payment through his RBS account, Mr M had already successfully made two withdrawals 
from his cryptocurrency wallet. Alongside this RBS would of course have been able to view 
Mr Ms account history, which would have shown that it wasnt uncommon for him to make 
large transactions for investment purposes. As well as this, Mr M wasnt making transactions 
to a third partys account, he was making payments to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange 
account in his name, that he had control of. 
All things considered, overall and on balance, in the individual circumstances of this case Im 
persuaded, its more likely than not the answers Mr M is likely to have given would have 
been sufficient to reassure RBS that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. From the information 
Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what was happening, Im persuaded its 
more likely than not Mr M would have been confident he was making a payment to invest in 
what seemed like a legitimate source.
Im aware Mr M has said as part of its obligations RBS ought to have invoked the banking 
protocol. But given Mr M was making payments for what appeared to be a legitimate reason 
and considering that Ive found RBS couldnt reasonably have foreseen Mr M was about to 
fall victim to a scam, it follows that I dont conclude that the banking protocol should have 
been invoked and the police called.
Mr M has also argued that he was vulnerable, very inexperienced and financially illiterate 
and due to his lack of knowledge he was an easy target. But Im not persuaded that is strictly 
true. I say that because, from looking at Mr Ms bank statements for the two years leading up 
to scam he has made not an insignificant number of payments for investment purposes. So 
while I note Mr Ms comments and from what hes said I understand this was a difficult time 
for him, it appears he did have some experience and understanding of trading in 
cryptocurrency and couldnt be classed as completely inexperienced. And importantly, the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that RBS had been notified of any vulnerabilities or 
needs such that it should have known to take additional steps to protect Mr M.Finally, Ive considered whether RBS did all it could to try and recover the money Mr M lost, 
once he had reported the scam to it. Given Mr M had exchanged the funds into 
cryptocurrency and then moved this on to accounts controlled by the fraudsters, I dont think 
RBS would have been able to recover any funds. It follows that I dont think it missed an 
opportunity to recover the money Mr M sadly lost.
Mr M has told us the impact this situation has had on him. I dont underestimate Mr Ms 
strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been a very difficult and worrying time 
for him. Its very unfortunate Mr M has lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting and I do have a great deal of sympathy for him. 
But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say RBS should have done 
more to prevent Mr M from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
RBS to refund the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman