DRN-2052997
The complaint
Mr B complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading at the time as Woolwich mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a personal loan. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a loan of £14,000 in a Barclays branch in July 1998 for a term of 60 
months. Mr B also bought a single premium PPI policy at the same time. The loan was 
repaid in September 2001.
This type of PPI policy meant that the cost of the PPI was added to the loan amount up 
front and would have attracted interest.
The policy protected Mr B against losing his job or being unable to work through an accident 
or sickness. The PPI cost £1,831.48 and this amount was also lent to Mr B by Barclays.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. Mr B disagreed and 
the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Barclays nor Mr B have been able to provide the original documents from the sale, 
but given how long ago it was, this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. Where the evidence is incomplete though, I have made 
my decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is Ive thought about whats more 
likely to have happened taking into account what the parties have told me, the evidence that 
is available and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at that time.
Barclays has sent some sample documents from the time and Im satisfied on balance that 
this paperwork represented the documents Mr B saw when he applied for his loan and the 
PPI. 
I think Mr B would have been asked to complete and sign an application form for his loan. 
Barclays has sent an example of a copy of this application This form has a section marked 
protecting your repayments and would have also offered a yes or no choice to Mr B to 
check if he wanted to buy the PPI. Mr B would have most likely had to tick the yes option for 
the PPI to be added. Mr B would have also likely received the credit agreement which states 
optional credit protection insurance. I also think a direct debit account was likely set up to 
repay the loan and the PPI so if he had any concerns or wanted to question the PPI he could 
have raised this with Barclays sooner. Overall, its more likely Mr B was presented with a 
choice about whether to accept or decline the PPI. I think he wouldve been able to see he 
didnt have to have this cover if he didnt want it.
Barclays says it recommended this policy to Mr B. This placed more responsibility on 
Barclays for how it sold the policy. It meant it had a duty to take reasonable steps to make 
sure that it was suitable for Mr Bs situation. It also had to provide enough clear information 
so that Mr B could make an informed decision as to whether he wanted the cover or not.
To help me decide whether it was suitable for Mr Bs situation Ive looked at the policy terms 
and conditions as well as considering Mr Bs circumstances.
From what Ive seen, I think Mr B was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been 
affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions of the policy. As Mr B was working 
and in good health, I think he could have made a successful claim if hed needed to.
 
I note Mr B has said a claim he made for unemployment was refused and so he has 
concerns that this policy was mis-sold as it did not cover loss of employment when he was 
unfairly dismissed as he had expected it to. I am not sure of the circumstances in which his 
claim was refused but the policy would only have paid out on involuntary unemployment - so 
if Mr B was made redundant - not if he was dismissed. To be clear, in this decision I am only 
considering whether the policy was mis-sold or not. I am not looking at the reasons why a 
claim was refused. As far as whether the policy was mis-sold there is no reason for me to 
think a valid claim couldnt have been paid out successfully.
 
Mr B told us he had at least three months sick pay and he had no other savings, so I think he 
had a use for the policy. For example, in the event of a successful claim, it could have paid 
out a monthly benefit and this would have been in addition to and likely for longer than any 
other means Mr B already had in place.
It looks like the cost and the interest paid on the PPI would have been set out in the credit 
agreement which Mr B would have had to sign when he took it out.
The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same term lengths and although it looks 
like Mr B paid off the loan earlier than he was expecting to at the time of him taking it out, 
theres no information which makes me think this was reasonably foreseeable. It looks like 
Mr B would have received a portion of the PPI back as a result of the early repayment, 
although perhaps not a fully proportionate amount. 
I cant say why he took out the PPI but I can understand how he could have had a use for it. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for him.
Barclays also had to give enough clear information about the policy so Mr B could make an 
informed decision about whether to buy it. I cant say that Mr B was told everything he 
should have been. But for much the same reasons Ive explained as to why I think the policy 
was suitable, I dont think clearer information would have changed his decision to buy it.
Ive taken into account everything Mr B has said, including what Mr B has said about other 
complaints he has made; and what Barclays said about not having any record and also 
referring in a separate letter about a phone call. I dont think this makes any difference to my 
decision. Each claim is decided upon its own merits and circumstances. The facts which 
apply in one case do not necessarily apply to another. I am also only looking at this 
particular sale. For the reasons Ive explained Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman