DRN-1298872
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) incorrectly placed a late 
payment marker on his credit file and didnt call him back when he complained about it.  
What happened
Mr A called First Direct to complain about a late payment marker it had put on his credit file. 
First Direct said it put the marker there because he hadnt brought his account back within 
the agreed overdraft limit within 31 days. Mr A told First Direct he was experiencing financial 
difficulties so it offered to go through his income and expenditure and it refunded the charges 
incurred over several months when hed exceeded the overdraft limit. 
Mr A said hed only gone over his overdraft limit because First Direct had charged him and 
that wasnt fair. Mr A added he didnt want help with his income and expenditure until he had 
spoken to a manager but a manager didnt call him.  HSBC considered the complaint but 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  
Mr A referred matters to us and our investigator couldnt find any record of First Direct 
promising to call Mr A back about his complaint. She explained that because Mr A raised a 
complaint, First Direct would follow its internal complaints procedure and that wouldnt 
include a call back. The investigator was also satisfied that the marker on Mr As credit file 
was correct. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He maintained the late payment marker was 
wrong and said that his financial difficulties had prevented him from bringing the account 
back within his overdraft limit. He also didnt think the investigator had fully addressed his 
complaint about not getting a call back from a manager. 
The complaint is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. While I understand my decision will disappoint 
him, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that First Direct did anything wrong. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision now.
Firstly, I think its worth pointing out that this account isnt Mr As main account, so payments 
into his account are limited. He has an arranged overdraft on his account.
Although Mr A says he doesnt want us to look at the matter of the overdraft charges, I think 
its important to include some information about that here because it helps me to explain my 
decision.The first point to address is whether First Direct could apply the charges in the first place. Mr 
A had an agreed limit for his overdraft and he went above it many times during the six 
months before he complained. In line with the terms and conditions of the account, First 
Direct was entitled to charge him when he went above the arranged limit. So Im satisfied 
that the charges were correct. Despite that, on hearing of his financial difficulties, First Direct 
refunded the charges. I think that was a fair and reasonable thing to do.  
Even though First Direct refunded the charges, Mr A says it was those charges that caused 
him to go above his overdraft limit in the first place. I have looked at Mr As bank statements 
and I can see that during the six months leading up to his complaint, his account was at, or 
above his overdraft limit. For all but one of those months, his account was already above the 
limit before First Direct applied charges. When he complained to First Direct and mentioned 
his financial difficulties it refunded over £200. Mr A says the refund settled that matter. But 
the complaint he asked us to look into is that by putting charges on his account, First Direct 
caused his account to go above the overdraft limit and its actions resulted in the late 
payment marker. As I have explained above, that isnt an accurate reflection of his account  
Mr A was already above his overdraft limit before First Direct put charges on his account. So 
I am satisfied that First Direct didnt cause Mr As account to go above the overdraft limit.
As the charges were correctly applied and First Direct didnt cause Mr A to go above his 
overdraft limit, the next point for me to explain is the late payment marker. I can understand 
Mr A is upset that his credit report now shows a late payment marker of 1. First Direct and 
our investigator explained that this means his account was above his overdraft limit for more 
than 31 days. I realise that might not seem like a late payment, but it means Mr A had spent 
more than his overdraft limit and he didnt bring it back into line quickly enough. In other 
words, he was late bringing his account back within the arranged overdraft limit. First Direct 
reports to the credit reference agencies and in doing so it must provide accurate information 
about Mr As account. He was late bringing his account back within the overdraft limit, so I 
am satisfied that it acted fairly in reporting that to the credit reference agencies. I dont think 
First Direct did anything wrong here and I see no reason to ask it to change the marker.
Finally, Mr A says First Direct didnt call him back as promised. Ive looked at the account 
notes made by First Direct at the time of his complaint. The notes show that Mr A called to 
complain about the marker and charges and explained about his financial difficulties. First 
Direct offered to go through his income and expenditure with him to see if it could help. It 
refunded the charges and said it would refer his complaint to a manager. Mr A said he 
wanted his complaint dealt with before going through his income and expenditure. The 
account notes show that a manager called Mr A back on the same day and agreed to look 
into his complaint about his credit file. The notes go on to show a second call back to 
discuss his income and expenditure. First Direct issued a final response letter six days later 
to say it couldnt do any more about Mr As complaint. That letter mentioned the managers 
call to Mr A. In light of this evidence, I am satisfied that First Direct returned Mr As call and it 
doesnt need to do any more about this issue.
In summary, I am satisfied that First Direct accurately reported the status of Mr As account 
to the credit reference agencies and that it did return his call. So I dont think First Direct 
needs to do anything more about this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman