DRN-3470022
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Makemson & Company Limited (Makemson) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M approached Makemson in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. Mr M had concerns about the stability of the BSPS and he wanted to increase his 
benefits when he retired. He wanted more control of his pension arrangements. He said he 
heard about Makemson through colleagues. 
Makemson completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that:
He was 37 years old, married and had two dependent children. 
He was employed by Tata Steel and had an annual income of £52,000.
Mr and Mrs M owned their own home subject to a modest mortgage which would be 
repaid in the very near future. 
He had no savings or investments. 
In respect of his pension arrangements Mr M had his deferred pension with the BSPS. He 
received a transfer value on 18 September 2017 that showed its value was £97,145.95. He 
had just under nine years in the scheme and the pension at the date of leaving was 
£4,632.48. 
The fact find showed that he had a small personal pension and I understand he joined Tata 
Steels new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He, and his employer, would contribute 16% 
of his salary into this. 
Makemson also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk. It concluded that he 
was an above average risk investor with a moderate capacity for loss. And Mr M signed to 
confirm a handwritten statement (its not certain who wrote it) that said:
I have a very high attitude to risk in respect of these benefits. I have considered very 
carefully whether I should transfer into BSPS2 to access the guarantees. My Advisor has 
pointed out that the benefits in the new scheme are not inflation proofed and feel I am young 
enough to achieve greater benefits from a personal pension under my control. Ill also be 
paying into a scheme which has been made by my employer who will also be contributing.
On 30 November 2017, Makemson advised Mr M to transfer his DB scheme pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds in one of the providers funds that 
met his attitude to risk. Mr M had the ability to change the funds if he wanted to. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
While invested the fund will benefit from tax advantaged growth and Mr M would 
receive tax relief on his contributions.
Benefits could be taken at any time from age 55 (which is when Mr M ideally wanted 
to retire).
25% of the uncrystallised pension fund could be taken as a tax-free lump sum.
There was a broad range of investment opportunities and flexibility in how the 
investment worked. 
Mr M complained in 2021 to Makemson about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M said 
Makemson didnt uphold his complaint. Ive not seen Mr Ms initial complaint and 
Makemsons response to it. But its clear that that Mr M has complained to Makemson and it 
has responded (not upholding the complaint). 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Makemson pay compensation. He said it was likely that Mr M would 
receive lower benefits due to the transfer and so it wasnt in his best interests, particularly as 
he wanted to increase his retirement benefits. And the other reasons given for the transfer 
were not enough to justify it. And whilst Mr M probably had genuine concerns about his 
employer, and the future of the scheme, this also wasnt a good enough reason to transfer. If 
the situation had been properly explained to Mr M he would have likely stayed in the scheme 
and ultimately joined the BSPS2. 
Makemson disagreed, saying: 
Mr M had a high attitude to risk, and he did not want his benefits to remain under the 
control of his employer or the BSPS2. He had considered the BSPS2 and didnt want 
to join it. 
Makemson clarified in detail the income and benefits from the BSPS2 scheme and 
the potential of the personal arrangement to better these. 
Whilst it did produce critical yields they were of limited relevance as they were based 
on the BSPS scheme. And the FCA has said that over reliance on these calculations 
isnt right. 
Mr M was happy at the time with the arrangement and proceeded despite the 
information he was given 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Makemson's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Makemson 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Makemson carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
This analysis was based on his existing BSPS scheme benefits, but Mr M didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing 
BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
Makemson did provide the estimated income, and the other benefits, that the BSPS2 could 
provide in the suitability letter. But it didnt base the critical yield calculation on these figures. 
So, the information Mr M had wasnt entirely correct. 
Makemson has said that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead, so the only meaningful 
comparison it could provide was with the benefits available to Mr M through the BSPS or the PPF. But I think Makemson overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr M had 
received his Time to Choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the 
scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the 
annual increases wouldve been lower. And I think Makemson could have changed its 
analysis to fully reflect the options Mr M had. Or waited until it could properly do this. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 37 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 55 ideally. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was 7.05% if he took a full pension and 6.27% if 
he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The same figures at Mr Ms age 55 were 
10.04% and 8.85% respectively. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
5.76% per year if Mr M took a full pension and 5.53% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension.
The critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits werent calculated. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, 
particularly at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year to Mr Ms age 65 and 4.4% to his age 55. Ive kept in mind that the 
regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
above average attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Makemson says that Mr Ms attitude to risk was high, and the documentation does support 
this to some degree. But Mr Ms circumstances seem at odds with this. I would expect a 
higher risk investor to have some investment experience which doesnt seem to be the case 
here. And one of his aims is maximising his pension income, rather than having a high 
tolerance to risk with the DB scheme. And Mr M says he was guided by the adviser in this 
respect. Given everything Ive seen; Im not persuaded that his attitude to risk was as high 
as the point of sale documentation indicated. 
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was over 5.5%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with his likely tolerance to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the 
PPF.Makemson has provided cashflow models which it says show that Mr M wouldve been able 
to meet his needs despite the high critical yields in some circumstances. It that estimated 
that at his age 55, in the BSPS2 he would receive £5,499 per year and at age 65 this would 
be £8,663. 
Makemson firstly compared this with what Mr M could expect if the personal pension 
achieved an average return of 1% a year. It said that in this case his fund would have fallen 
to £82,746 (adjusted for inflation) at his age 55. If this was the case a level drawdown 
income of £2,820 each year would lead to the fund being reduced to zero by Mr Ms age 80. 
If the return was 5% per year, the fund would grow to £225,819 (adjusted for inflation) at age 
65. In this scenario, a level income of £17,632 taken per each year would lead to the fund 
being used up by his age 103. So, its clear there was a significant risk here of the drawdown 
arrangement providing less than the benefits Mr M gave up. 
Also, as Makemson will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
And Makemson estimated that a fund of between £316,288.31 to £388,046.12 was needed 
to provide the same benefits as the BSPS at Mr Ms age 65 9 (depending on the amount of 
tax-free cash taken). And at 55 the same fund values were between £165,238.93 and 
£190,173.81. These are high amounts and above what it could reasonably be expected that 
Mr Ms fund would grow to, given Mr Ms tolerance to risk. They give a revealing insight into 
the cost of the benefits he was giving up. 
Makemson also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Makemson says Mr M didnt want an annuity, it 
said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required Makemson to consider 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a 
relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr M could realistically say with any 
certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt 
expecting to retire for around another 17 years at the earliest. Its entirely possible that Mr M 
would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme).
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Makemson has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Makemson says that Mr M wanted to take his pension benefits flexibly at retirement. In 
considering this I think its reasonable to firstly say there was very little detail recorded about 
Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale. And there was very little analysis, or information 
about, his retirement wants or needs. 
If Makemson had taken a more detailed look at Mr Ms retirement circumstances it could 
have provided robust planning as to how he could meet his aims or challenged them if his 
aims werent realistic or achievable. For example, I dont think its reasonable to say that 
Makemson seriously looked into, or challenged, Mr Ms objective of early retirement and questioned how realistic that was for him. So, I dont think it met its obligations to determine 
his objectives in the light of what he would be giving up. Given the amount of information 
recorded, its difficult to see how Makemson could have properly advised Mr M. 
That said one of the main reasons that Makemson recommended this transfer was for the 
flexibility and control it offered Mr M. The point of sale documentation shows that Mr M 
wanted to retire at age 55, if possible. And if he did this his income needs may fall from state 
pension age. So, varying his income could be useful. 
It's evident that Mr M could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly in this way. Although he 
could choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr M had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr M had any concrete need to take 
tax-free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. And Mr M 
hadnt set on a retirement age yet anyway. 
It was noted that the DB scheme would provide an income of around £9,500 per year or tax-
free cash of £41,171 and a reduced annual pension of £6,175. And Mr M would also receive 
his state pension of around £9,000. He would also have his DC scheme benefits, which 
given the time he had left until his retirement could be used either to provide an income or 
some flexibility. I think its reasonable to say Mr M would have enough to meet his income 
aims at 65. 
Of course the amounts are much lower at Mr Ms age 55 and if he joined the BSPS2 these 
would be lower still. Makemson said that he would receive an income of around £5,500 per 
year in this scenario. But, as Ive said, Mr M was a member of his new employers DC 
scheme and he and his employer were contributing a combined total of 16% of his salary 
each month into this. If he remained in this over the next, say, 17 years, and his salary 
remained the same at around £50,000, both him and his employer would have contributed 
around £136,000 into to it. And this would likely be increased by investment performance. 
Added to this they were due to repay the mortgage soon, and so could possibly increase the 
amounts they could save. 
But given all of this, Im not persuaded that Mr M needed to make significant changes to plan 
to retire early. I think the right advice here would be for Mr M to remain in his DB scheme 
and anticipate that this would form a core guaranteed income. And Mr and Mrs M could 
continue to build up funds and other provision elsewhere to enable them to be flexible about 
their retirement when they had a better idea what they wanted to do. Its entirely possible 
that Mr and Mrs M could have saved up enough to enable them to make up any income 
shortfall their pension arrangements would leave them with at early retirement. 
I dont think advising him to transfer the DB scheme increased Mr Ms flexibility, due to the 
lower income provided, I think it decreased it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the PPF or the BSPS2. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt really 
need. And if Mr M found that his circumstances changed and he did in fact need flexibility, if 
hed opted to go into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out closer to his 
actual retirement age. So, ultimately, I think any need for flexibility couldve been addressed 
nearer to his retirement.
I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed benefits 
now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Makemson explored to what 
extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pensions provided by 
the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr M predeceased them. I dont 
think Makemson made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there 
may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr M lived a long life. In any event, 
Makemson should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Makemson shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
The advice was given on the basis that Mr M was very worried about the future of the 
pension scheme and his employer. 
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr M was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Makemsons obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ms concerns about the scheme moving 
to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Makemson 
shouldve reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant 
amount of income at his retirement. And the critical yields show he was unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to Makemson recommending Mr M transfer out 
of the DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge 
to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
DB scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Ms stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ms employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not the same. And in any event, Mr M was not intending to leave his employment and 
his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme 
didnt achieve a break from his employer. Mr M says that he has now moved his pension 
back to the Tata DC scheme. So had Makemson  explained that Mr Ms belief regarding 
the control Mr Ms employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have 
been reassured by this.
Would Mr M have joined the BSPS2 going forward
My decision is that Mr M should have been advised to stay in the DB scheme. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 wasnt in place when the advice was given, but I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to be going ahead. As Ive outlined above, Mr M would need to 
choose whether to move to the PPF, or go to the BSPS2, in the near future. 
I don't think that it would've been in Mr Ms interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. Even though Mr M did want to retire early, Im 
not persuaded that he would have needed to take the benefits from his DB scheme if he did 
this. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr 
M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So I think if Makemson had advised Mr M to stay in the BSPS scheme he would have opted 
in the future to join the BSPS2. And so, this is what compensation should be based on. 
Suitability of investments
Makemson recommended that Mr M invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But 
Makemson wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a 
personal pension Mr M was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.  
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Makemson's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Makemsons advice. I say this because Mr M was 
an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ms retirement 
provision. So, if Makemson had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
Makemson had explained that Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M 
would have insisted on transferring out of the BSPS. As I said above, he has said that he 
has moved his pension arrangements back to his employers DC scheme. 
In light of the above, I think Makemson should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Makemson also pay Mr M £500 for the distress caused 
by the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Makemson must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Makemson should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
If Makemson does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision 
department of the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS 
calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Makemson should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Makemsons offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Makemson 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Makemson should pay Mr M £500 for the distress the poor advice caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Makemson & Company 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Makemson & Company Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Makemson & Company 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman