DRN-3472179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Mr and Mrs B were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which would be sold to the national grid;
the system would not cost them anything, and would yield a significant profit over the 
systems lifespan of 25 years; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan repayments as they arose.
The CMC argued that these misrepresentations, and also breaches of contract, gave rise to 
an unfair relationship between the parties under section 140A of the Act.
Shawbrook said that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, emphasising that the system would not 
begin to make any profit for 16 years, whereas the loan term was only ten years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs B could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, the unsigned solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation, and another version of the quote, titled Getting Started, which has been signed 
by Mrs B. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that the quote formed a central part of the sales process and the 
representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs B, explaining any 
benefits of the system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
signed quote titled Getting Started did form a central part of the sales process and 
therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and Mrs Bs version of events, when considering if there have 
been any untrue statements of fact.
In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account the fact that this quote has been 
signed and the other has not. I have also taken into account the fact that the signed quote 
gives the figures for a ten year loan term, which is the same term as in the credit agreement 
which Mr and Mrs B entered into, whereas the unsigned quote gives the figures for a 15-year 
loan term. This may indicate that a 15 year loan was discussed, before Mr and Mrs B 
decided on a ten year loan. But I have relied on the signed quote, because that document 
gives the correct figures for the loan they agreed on, and it has been signed by one of them, 
which in my view means that P did enough to bring its contents to their attention.
In the rest of my decision below, references to the quote are therefore references to the 
signed quote.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs B have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments, together with the savings on their energy 
bills. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have 
been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £428.44, which results in an average monthly income of £35.70. 
Im satisfied that the same quote set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £111.85, for ten years, which is more than a quarter of the FIT income in year one. As a 
result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs B were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £288 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs B, the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £917.24. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £111.85. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £111.84, but the difference  1p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would not make enough money to 
cover the loan payments until year eight.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs B werent told that the FIT payments would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Bs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mrs B, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her and her husbands 
attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the 
meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs B were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This shows that during year 11 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs B could expect 
to receive would reach the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £13,420.80.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for 
the loan in nearly 11 years, as supported by the table above, which were included in the 
quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 16 years for the system to pay for the 
loan. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs B.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,792 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Bs FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,011 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs B havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs B could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman