DRN-3548804
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a third-party access to his 
account. The estate is represented by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M says his father, the late Mr M, was taken from his care home by a family member to a 
Barclays branch in January 2018. At the branch access to his account was given to that 
family member. Mr M says his father lacked mental capacity to make such a decision and an 
application had been made to the Court of Protection. Mr M says his father was a victim of 
financial abuse and would like an independent review into what took place. He says Barclays 
should be fined for what took place and that his father died on 16 February 2018.
Barclays says the late Mr M and his family member attended its branch on 23 January 2018 
for Third Party Access (TPA) to be given to that family member. It says its policy is to 
question the account holder individually and says both parties signed the authority. Barclays 
says it was unaware of any family disputes or that Mr M had capacity issues.
Mr M says a payment was made after the TPA for £400 to a solicitor which was part of an 
attempt to take his father out of the country. He brought his complaint to us and our 
investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator explained our role and that we are not Barclays 
regulator. The investigator didnt think Barclays had been told of the late Mr Ms health 
position or that it was aware of the application to the Court of Protection. And that both 
parties had signed the TPA.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says there is clear evidence his father lacked capacity 
and says he hopes that if Barclays had been aware of the medical position that it wouldnt 
have allowed the TPA. He says that must show Barclays procedures are inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place. I can see that the investigator has explained what our role is in this 
complaint and that we are not Barclays regulator. So, I cant fairly punish Barclays or fine it 
as Mr M suggests in any event. And I cant comment on Barclays procedures in these 
circumstances.
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and am satisfied it doesnt have a record of any 
family dispute or about the late Mr Ms health as far as capacity is concerned. I would have 
expected Barclays to have been told in, at least 2017, that an application was being made to 
the Court of Protection which would have allowed it to record that information as well as 
place markers on the account. I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for any family dispute 
or what may have taken place involving the late Mr M and attempts to take him out of the 
country.
I have no doubt the late Mr M was extremely unwell in 2017 and in early 2018. I have read 
his hospital notes and the application that had been made to the Court of Protection. It 
follows that I think Barclays ought to have been told that information. But I can also see from 
the application that the late Mr M is described as having had a period of lucidity in 
September 2017. It follows that I cant be sure what his health was like on 23 January 2018 
and/or if he was lucid that day. Im satisfied that the late Mr M was able to attend a Barclays 
branch and was able to sign the TPA form. So, I think it likely that Barclays would have 
considered both of those matters which would not have led it to reasonably conclude the late 
Mr M lacked capacity
I have looked at the TPA form, but I wouldnt have expected Barclays staff to be able to 
reasonably recall what any responses were to it. There is no evidence that Barclays staff 
made a mistake on 23 January 2018 and ignored any obvious signs of a lack of capacity by 
the late Mr M. It may well have been a different position if Barclays had been told of the 
pending application to the Court of Protection and told about any family dispute. But I have 
made clear Barclays wasnt told any of that information and so I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for what took place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman