DRN-3363255
The complaint
Miss V complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss V complained about four instalment loans she took out with Lending Stream. Heres a 
table showing the main loan details:
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Total 
Monthly Repayment
1 4/9/2019 10/3/2020 6 £400 £130.63
2 17/10/2019 Outstanding 6 £440 £131.91
3 9/12/2019 Outstanding 6 £310 £98.17
4 7/1/2020 10/03/2020 6 £160 £51.10
When Miss V complained to Lending Stream it made an offer in respect of loan 4 but didnt 
feel it had done anything wrong when it provided loans1-3. 
Miss V didnt feel this response went far enough so she brought her complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators reviewed what Miss V and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
Our adjudicator concentrated on looking at the loans that Lending Stream hadnt upheld. 
After carefully considering the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Vs 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Vs complaint about loans 1-3  
Miss V disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss V mainly said that if Lending Stream had checked her credit file it should have been 
evident that she had 5 credit cards all maxed out, 2 personal loans and payday lending with 
another company and it shouldnt have just based its affordability check on the expenditure 
she had stated and any information that wasnt verified. 
Miss V said Lending Stream should have been concerned about whether she would be able 
to repay these loans on time. 
She believes the lending decisions were made based solely on her disposable income and 
without thinking about other factors such as her debt or recognising that the frequent nature 
of her borrowing could have been a sign that she was having financial difficulties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I am not upholding Miss Vs complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our adjudicator but Ill explain my reasons in a bit more detail which 
I hope will help Miss V understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
As Lending Stream has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 4 
and to amend Miss Vs credit file in line with what we would expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances, I havent considered this loan further. Lending Stream has said it will do 
everything that we would tell it to do if we upheld the complaint about loan 4  so theres 
nothing further for us to do in this situation. If Miss V hasnt yet done so and she would like to 
take up this offer (which I understand Lending Stream has confirmed is still open to her to 
accept) then she should contact Lending Stream direct to make the arrangements.
Like our adjudicator, I will focus on loans 1, 2 and 3.
Lending Stream provided Miss V with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Lending Stream was required 
to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Miss V before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss Vs applications after carrying out proper and 
proportionate affordability checks. This included asking Miss V to declare her income (which 
it took steps to check) and to tell Lending Stream what she spent on other monthly outgoings 
such as rent, food, household bills and other payments. Lending Stream compared the 
information Miss V provided against national averages and adjusted the figures she provided 
accordingly to ensure that as far as possible it relied on information that was likely reflect her 
actual financial situation as realistically as possible. 
Lending Stream also asked Miss V about any other credit expenses and did its own credit 
checks to gain an understanding of Miss Vs credit history and find out about her current 
credit commitments. 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss V showed that loans1-3 
shouldve been affordable for her and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.loan 1
As this was Miss Vs first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information Miss V provided in the absence of any contradictory 
information. The information it gathered at the time suggested that she was well able to 
afford this borrowing. 
There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Lending Stream did that suggested 
otherwise. At this early stage, Miss V didn't have any track record with the lender that 
shouldve alerted Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that 
there was anything in the information Miss V provided or the information Lending Stream 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to verify 
the information Miss V had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss V took out the second loan the following month when she was still paying loan 1  and 
effectively more than doubled the amount of her outstanding borrowing with Lending Stream. 
But I dont think that was enough of a reason to make Lending Stream think that it shouldnt 
have provided this loan given that the total amount owing wasnt excessive relative to 
Miss Vs overall financial situation. 
Lending Stream asked Miss V to update the information she provided about her finances 
each time she applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable 
for Miss V. The credit checks Lending Stream acquired didnt highlight anything adverse that 
shouldve put off a responsible lender from lending or make it think it needed more 
information before providing any further credit. There wasnt anything at that stage to 
indicate to Lending Stream that Miss V had found it hard to manage the loan repayments for 
loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Vs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
I think that Lending Stream ought to have done more in-depth checks before providing 
loan 3. This was the second time that Miss V had applied for more money without having 
repaid previous loans she had taken out. So I think Lending Stream ought to have have 
taken steps to verify what Miss V was saying about her financial circumstances to make sure 
it properly understood her financial situation before agreeing this loan. Lending Stream 
hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check 
before agreeing to lend to Miss V on this occasion. 
But that isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. In 
order to uphold Miss Vs complaint, I would need to be able to say that if Lending Stream 
had done a proportionate check before lending it would likely have found out information that 
wouldve made it realise that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for her. So 
Ive looked at what I think a proportionate check is likely to have revealed at the time.
To help me understand Miss Vs circumstances when she took out loan 3, Ive looked at a 
credit report and bank statements that she has sent us. I think these give a useful insight into 
her overall finances at the time. But, I still havent seen enough overall in the information available to me which shows 
Lending Stream should have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. I can see 
Miss Vs finances were showing some signs of potentially becoming over-stretched  her 
current account was overdrawn and some debits were being returned unpaid despite the fact 
that she had taken some other loans. It was also apparent that she was typically spending 
several hundred pounds on gambling each month. But I dont think overall that the picture 
painted is one of compulsive gambling spending or such serious financial difficulty that a 
responsible lender ought to have recognised that loan 3 wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable. And I cant see that Miss V gave Lending Stream any indication that her finances 
were causing her serious money problems during her application for loan 3.   
Ive taken into account everything Miss V has said, including her comments sent in response 
to our adjudicators opinion. But for loans 1-2, I think its reasonable to say that Lending 
Stream was entitled to decide Miss Vs lending applications based on the information it had 
available at the time. And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the 
information it relied on when deciding whether to provide these loans. And by the time she 
took out loan 3, although I dont think the lenders checks went far enough, I havent seen 
enough to make me think that a proportionate check, if done at the time, wouldve revealed 
enough to suggest to Lending Stream that this loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable 
for Miss V and so it shouldnt have provided it. 
I accept that in reality Miss Vs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream says it obtained. But in 
order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in 
this case, ultimately I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend 
to Miss V when it provided loans 1-3. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss V has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman