DRN-3028748
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc has increased the cost of her pet insurance policy 
and with how information about the increase was provided to her. 
What happened
Mrs W took out a lifetime pet insurance policy at the end of 2017 to cover her dog. This was 
initially on a months free trial following which she decided to continue with the policy in 
January 2018. The initial premium was around £361 which increased to around £569 at 
renewal in December 2020. 
Mrs W was unhappy with that and that information about her renewals and the premium 
increases had been sent to her by email. She said this made it more difficult for her to 
compare the premium with the previous years and shed missed out on the opportunity to 
shop around as a result.
Allianz explained the factors that led to the premium increase and said it had been correctly 
calculated in this case. It thought the policy terms and conditions and other information 
provided to Mrs W when she took the policy out made clear the premiums could change. 
Allianz said shed agreed to receive information by email when she took the policy out. She 
hadnt made any claims on the policy and would have been open to her to shop around and 
see if she could find a cheaper alternative. 
Our investigator was satisfied the premium had been correctly calculated. But she didnt 
think the information Mrs W was provided with when she took the policy out was clear 
enough about the potential for significant increases in the cost of the policy. She thought as 
a result the subsequent increase would have caused Mrs W some distress and thought 
Allianz should pay her £75 in recognition of that. However, she was satisfied sending policy 
information by email reflected Mrs Ws preferences when she took the policy out, though 
suggested Allianz update these to reflect what shed now said. 
Allianz said it was happy to do that. But it didnt agree to the proposed compensation. It said 
the policy information did make clear premiums could change at renewal and this was also 
explained to Mrs W during the sales call. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether Allianz has correctly calculated the premium increases for 
Mrs Ws policy. In doing so Ive taken into account that insurers are entitled to decide how 
much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. 
Its up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for the 
percentages of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell a business 
what its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it 
should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ws policy is too high, 
she should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the 
future.
And the policy terms do allow Allianz to change the premium at renewal. Looking at the 
information Allianz has provided Im satisfied its based its decision on the correct 
information. I havent seen any evidence suggest Allianz have treated Mrs W any differently 
to how they would have treated any other policy holder in the same position. So I dont think 
Allianz has done anything wrong in relation to this. Im also satisfied Allianzs contact with 
Mrs W reflected what she was told during the sales call. 
But Allianz should have made clear to Mrs W when she took out the policy what the longer 
term cost implications of doing so might be. Ive thought about whether it did that. I can see 
while the policy booklet does explain the premium may change at renewal it doesnt provide 
more information on this. It doesnt for example explain the significant nature of premium 
increases for a policy of this type or explain theres no limit on how much the costs might 
increase by. 
However, I appreciate Mrs W did also speak to an adviser as part of the sales process. 
During that call she queried the ongoing cost of the policy and in response the adviser 
explained the price could change and set out some of the factors that might affect it. I think 
its fair to say Mrs W would have been aware from that call the cost of her policy was likely to 
increase over time and what some of the reasons for that might be. But I dont think shed 
have known from that call the significant extent to which her premiums might increase over a 
relatively short period of time. 
Allianz has drawn attention to a further call Mrs W made in January 2020. Ive listened to 
that call in which its clear Mrs W is very unhappy about the increase in her premium. The 
adviser explains whats led to that (including the age of her pet) and that these increases 
have been applied to other policyholders in the same position. 
I think from that and the premium increases which had already taken place Mrs W would 
have been aware of the potential for the cost of the policy to increase significantly in future. I 
dont think further increases from then, while unwelcome, will have come as a surprise to 
her. But the cost of the policy had already increased at that point (from £361 to £487  an 
increase of 35% in only two years). 
Mrs W was clearly interested in lifetime cover for her pet so I think its likely shed have gone 
ahead with the policy even if shed had clearer information about the potential for premiums 
to increase significantly in future. And I appreciate Allianz says Mrs W could have shopped 
around if she was unhappy with the premium increase. I note that in her January 2020 call 
she indicated shed do so. I accept the Financial Conduct Authority says insurers should 
encourage consumers to do that at renewal. I dont think the time involved in doing so is 
something that in itself would warrant any compensation payment. 
However, this was a lifetime cover policy. Based on the information she had at the point of 
sale Mrs W might reasonably have thought she wouldnt need to shop around as her dog 
would, as the name of the policy suggests be Covered for Life. I also think its clear from 
the phone call she made to Allianz that she was upset by the significant increase in the cost 
of this policy. I think that went beyond what she would reasonably have thought would take 
place on the basis of the information she was given at the point of sale. And I think the 
compensation of £75 our investigator recommended is appropriate in this case. 
My final decisionIve decided to uphold this complaint in part. Allianz Insurance Plc will need to pay Mrs W 
£75. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman