DRN-3468008
The complaint
Mr S complains that Experian Limited (Experian) didnt make reasonable adjustment for 
him when he asked for a copy of his data  in breach of the Equality Act 2010.
What happened
Mr S has told us that hes unable to touch, pick up, look at, read or open letters sent to his 
home address because of a physical disability. Hes also told us that he needs businesses to 
make reasonable adjustments for him in accordance with the Equality Act 2010.
Mr S says:
 He asked Experian to communicate with his solicitors only  as a reasonable adjustment.
 Experian didnt make reasonable adjustments for him  it sent him a letter in the post.
 Experian refused to communicate with his solicitors.
 Experian refused to call him when he emailed them asking them to do so.
 Experian refused to speak to him when he called for telephone support.
Experian says:
 Mr S wanted it to communicate with his solicitors only, but it couldnt do so unless and 
until he provided a named point of contact which he didnt.
 It sent a PIN to Mr S by post  allowing him to access his data  because its policy 
doesnt allow it to send information as confidential as his data to anyone else.
 Its policy is to operate an inbound call centre. It tries its best to make outbound calls if its 
made aware of a reason for why one is necessary, but Mr S didnt give it any reason for 
why an outbound call was necessary until a call on 12 November 2021.
 It attempted to support Mr S over the phone even though he has a free account rather 
than a subscription account  phone support isnt provided as part of its free account 
service, only its subscription account service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and said that they didnt think Experian 
had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and sent us additional evidence, including email 
exchanges hed had with Experian and his solicitors. He said he wanted an ombudsman to 
look into his complaint and to take these email exchanges into account. So, I was asked to 
consider this complaint and thats one thing I did.
Last month I issued a Provisional Decision saying I didnt think Experian had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. I did so having asked both sides for some additional information. Im 
grateful for the additional documents both sides sent to me before I issued my Provisional 
Decision  those additional documents helped me piece together what had happened here. 
In my Provisional Decision, I said that I could see the law firm had given the name of an 
individual in one of its email, so I thought both parties had missed an opportunity here. More 
importantly, I said I hadnt seen any evidence to show that Mr S had explained to Experian 
before he complained that he needed them to communicate with his solicitors as a 
reasonable adjustment, or why this was a necessary reasonable adjustment. I also said that 
after hed complained Id seen evidence that hed told Experian that hard copy letters were 
inaccessible to him as hes unable to read or understand them. In the circumstances, I said I 
could understand why Experian in its final response  in light of what it had been told  had 
made the suggestions it did. I asked both parties to comment on my Provisional Decision.
Mr S was very unhappy with my Provisional Decision  he said we had to understand that he 
was complaining about Experians response to his subject access request rather than its 
subscription service. He also said he shouldnt need to explain why he wanted a call back  
Experian should have just called him back  suggesting that Experians use of offshore staff 
who dont understand reasonable adjustments or UK law is the real problem here. In 
addition, he said he hadnt been given a named contact, and that because of his mental 
health issues it should have been enough that he told Experian to contact the law firm in 
question. Finally he said that my Provisional Decision had made assumptions based on him 
having a good memory which was unfair. Experian replied too  clarifying dates Id 
mentioned in my Provisional Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr Ss memory might not be great  and didnt assume that hed remember 
hed received an email from the law firm in question with an individuals name at the bottom. 
But I do think both parties missed an opportunity here. Mr S could have provided the name 
at the bottom of the email, Experian could have asked if they could act as a named contact 
or Mr S could have asked the law firm in question  its reasonable to assume they would 
have been willing to give a named contact in this case. More importantly, however, I think 
the turning point in this complaint is what Experian was and wasnt told about Mr Ss needs. 
Ill explain what I mean.
Im satisfied that Mr S didnt explain to Experian before he complained that he needed them 
to communicate with his solicitors as a reasonable adjustment, or why this was a necessary 
reasonable adjustment. I know Mr S doesnt feel he should need to, but a reasonable 
adjustment is a change that a business makes to the usual way it does things. In the case of 
Experian, its usual way of working is to accept incoming calls and not make outbound calls. 
So, if Mr S wanted Experian to make an outbound call to him, I dont agree with him that all 
he had to do was ask and it should be done. More importantly, Im satisfied that in the 
course of speaking to Mr S about his complaint, Mr S said that hard copy letters were 
inaccessible to him as hes unable to read or understand them. In the circumstances, as I 
said in my Provisional Decision, I can understand why in its final response Experian offered 
to send Mr S his data key so he could forward his data to the law firm in question or get 
information from citizens advice. I remain of that view  those suggestions were sensible in 
light of what Experian knew. I accept  knowing what I do about Mr S  that the suggestions 
werent helpful in Mr Ss actual circumstances. But it wouldnt be fair to judge Experians 
actions on the basis of what I know.
Given what Ive just said, I dont think Experian acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
response to Mr Ss request for a copy of his data. So, I remain of the view that this complaint is not one that it would be fair to uphold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Experian Limited has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman