DRN-2113029
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XLC) has declined a claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs M was on holiday in June 2019. She had an annual policy with a different insurer which 
covered her up to the 18 June 2019. Her policy with XLC started on the following day. 
On around 17 June 2019 Mrs M had a fall. She says she contacted XLC on 27 June 2019 to 
say that she wanted to go to hospital and to check whether she could access treatment at 
the local private hospital. After speaking with XLC again she had an MRI scan and was 
prescribed medication. 
When she submitted her claim to XLC it was declined because the fall had taken place 
before Mrs Ms policy with them had come into force. So, they directed her to her previous 
insurer. Mrs M has had part of the claim settled by them but she says she is still out of 
pocket by £700. 
Mrs M complained to XLC. In their final response letter XLC said they had no record of the 
call on the 27 June 2019 and that the fall had taken place before their cover started. 
Unhappy, Mrs M complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He asked Mrs M whether she had a copy 
of her call records showing the call but she explained this wasnt available. XLC were also 
unable to access the call recording due to issues with their system. The investigator didnt 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint as he didnt think there was enough evidence to show that she did 
call on the 27 June 2019. And, he was satisfied the fall had taken place outside the date that 
XLC covered Mrs M. 
Mrs M said she didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that XLC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint because:
Mrs Ms fall took place outside the period of time that XLC was providing her with 
cover. The insured event was Mrs Ms fall. That means XLC isnt responsible for 
covering claims related to that event, even if Mrs M needed to access treatment at a 
later date, as they werent her insurer at the time she fell 
 
The call from the 27 June 2019 isnt available. I can understand why both sides have 
been unable to provide their phone records  theyve both given reasonable 
explanations as to why they cant. I dont know whether Mrs M explained to XLC 
during that call that the fall had taken place several days before and whether XLC 
was aware of that fact when they gave Mrs M guidance on her claim 
In any event, I dont think that call is central to the outcome of this complaint. I say 
that because, even if I accept that call took place, I wouldnt uphold this complaint.  
Mrs M called XLC back the next day from the private hospital whilst she was trying to 
arrange getting treatment. She spoke to them on the morning of the 28 June 2019, 
before she had the MRI scan. Ive reviewed the contact notes from those calls and 
XLC did explain, before she received treatment, that they werent in a position to 
approve the claim. When they next spoke to Mrs M shed had the treatment and was 
advised to claim. So I think Mrs M was made aware that XLC may not cover the 
treatment before she went ahead with it
I entirely understand Mrs Ms reasons for going ahead with the treatment, particularly 
as she was in pain and says the hospital wanted her to have an MRI as soon as 
possible in case further medical intervention was needed. But, in the circumstances 
of this case, I cant reasonably say that XLC should cover the £700 shortfall. 
  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman