DRN-2492920
The complaint
Ms E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) were wrong to decline a claim on her 
property insurance for damage caused by her son while he was experiencing mental health 
issues.  
What happened
In July 2020, Ms Es son, who has mental health issues, caused damage to her property. 
The police attended and classified the matter as criminal damage. They took Ms Es son 
away from the property and he was later detained in a mental health hospital under the 
relevant legislation. 
Ms E made a claim on her property insurance and says that she was told by Aviva that the 
policy didnt cover malicious damage. She says that the police have said the damage was 
criminal and not malicious. Ms E believes that in order for the matter to be malicious there 
would need to be an intention or knowledge of wrongdoing, but this is lacking due to her 
sons mental health episode. Ms E does not think the claim is excluded by the policy terms 
as if her son was not aware of what he was doing then he was acting like a stranger and not 
as a member or resident of the household. Ms E believes that Aviva should therefore pay the 
claim. 
Ms E was asked by Aviva to provide further evidence on her sons condition and provided 
evidence saying that her son has been diagnosed with psychosis and is under the care of an 
NHS Mental Health Team. 
Aviva says that there is an exclusion on the policy excluding any damage carried out by Ms 
E or anyone living with her. As Ms Es son was living at the property when he caused the 
damage, this meant that the claim was declined. It says the damage was initially classed as 
malicious damage by the claims team as this was what they were told when the claim was 
made. But the damage cannot be classed as malicious as Ms Es son was not aware he was 
causing the damage due to his illness. Aviva also says that the damage also cannot be 
classed as criminal damage if Ms Es son was not aware of what he was doing at the time of 
the incident. However, Aviva says that it doesnt matter if the damage is classified as 
malicious or criminal because the claim has been refused on the grounds that Ms Es son 
was living at the address. 
Aviva says that in order to cover a claim, there needs to be a specific peril, such as fire, theft 
or escape of water. But in this case there is no such peril to cover the damage caused by Ms 
Es son under the terms and conditions of the policy. Aviva says that there may have been a 
possibility that it could have covered the damage under the accidental damage cover 
section, but Ms E did not opt to take this cover out when she took the policy, so Aviva cannot 
accept the claim.
Our investigator looked at this case and concluded that Aviva had dealt with Ms Es 
complaint fairly and that it had declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. As Ms Es son was living at the property at the time, Aviva was correct in declining 
the claim. The investigator considered what Ms E had said about her son acting in the 
capacity of a stranger, but concluded that this would then not be considered as malicious 
damage. The claim may possibly have been covered under accidental damage but Ms E 
hadnt taken out this additional cover. The investigator also found that, although it didnt 
change the outcome, it was fair for Aviva to consider Ms Es sons medical records. 
Ms E disagrees so the case has come to me to make a decision. She says that, as the 
investigator agreed with her point relating to the damage not being malicious damage, this 
means that it should be classed as criminal damage as it was caused without the necessary 
intention and as if by a stranger. Ms E says that her policy should cover her for criminal 
damage caused by an effective stranger. She says the policy wording is not fit for purpose 
and that Aviva did not ask if there was a mentally ill person living at the property which it 
should have done in order to underwrite this risk. She is concerned that this leaves mentally 
ill people and those they live with at risk of not being covered and uninsurable as a result of 
events like this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
In order for Ms E to make a successful claim on her policy, the cause of the loss or damage 
to her property would need to be an insured event or peril which is covered by the terms of 
her policy. It is usual for property insurance to cover loss or damage caused by a variety of 
events  such as fire, storm or flood, water escape, theft and subsidence  as opposed to 
covering any loss or damage however it was caused. Ive therefore considered the policy 
document, which sets out what is covered by the buildings and contents parts of Ms Es 
policy.
Of the insured events covered under Ms Es policy, the only one which could apply to the 
circumstances of this case is loss or damage caused by Malicious people or vandals. 
However, for this type of event the terms of the policy specify that Aviva will not cover loss or 
damage caused by paying guests, tenants or you.  The definition of You is also set as 
being The person (or people) named on your schedule, their domestic partner and members 
of their family (or families) who are normally living with them and their foster children who 
live with them.
In light of the above term, if the damage to Ms Es property was considered to be malicious 
then this would not be covered by the policy as it was caused by Ms Es son who was living 
at the property at the time of the incident. So I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim under this term as it is not in dispute that Ms Es son was living at the 
property when he caused the damage. 
Ms E says that the damage should be considered as criminal as it was caused without the 
necessary intention and as if by a stranger. But if the damage were to be classed as 
criminal, a similar issue arises in relation to Ms Es son living at the property. This is 
because under the general exclusions of the policy it is also set out that the policy does not 
cover Deliberate or Criminal Acts comprising any loss or damage a. deliberately caused by; 
or b. arising from a criminal act caused by; you or any other person living with you. So the 
claim would still be declined on the basis that Ms Es son was living at the property at the 
time of the incident if the damage was considered to be criminal.
Ive also carefully considered what Ms E has said about the damage not being classed as malicious due to her sons mental health issues and what she says about it being caused 
as if by a stranger. And, in my view, this would also apply to the classification of the damage 
as criminal due to Ms Es son not having the necessary intention. It is suggested that 
because of these mental health issues the exclusions relating to her son living at the 
property shouldnt apply. 
I dont think its necessary for me to fully resolve this issue in the circumstances of this case. 
This is because, as set out above, it is not the case that Ms Es policy (or any other property 
insurance policy) covers any loss or damage however it was caused. The damage or loss 
has to be attributable to an insured event under the policy. In this case, if the damage was 
not classed as malicious it would not be covered by any of the other insured events covered 
by Ms Es policy (for example fire, flood, storm etc.).  
It might have been possible that, if the damage was not deemed to be malicious due to Ms 
Es sons mental health issues, it could have been covered under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. Ive seen Ms Es renewal letter in February 2020, which set out that she 
could add accidental damage cover for buildings and contents for an additional premium. 
However, Ive looked at Ms Es policy schedule which shows that she did not opt for this 
extra cover and therefore accidental damage cover for buildings and contents was not 
covered by her policy. For that reason I havent gone on to consider whether the damage 
caused by Ms Es son could have have been covered under the accidental damage section 
of the policy (if it was not deemed to be malicious) as this cover wasnt taken out by Ms E. 
In the absence of accidental damage cover, even if the damage caused by Ms Es son was 
not deemed to be malicious or criminal there is no other insured event which would have 
covered it under the terms of the policy. So I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in coming to the decision it has. For completeness I should say that I dont 
accept the argument that the policy was not fit for purpose. Ive no reason to believe that if a 
valid claim had been made the policy wouldnt have responded.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms E and I appreciate this has been a 
difficult situation for her, but I can't fairly say that Aviva has acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this case. So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman