DRN-3745920
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim against his 
contents insurance policy. 
Reference to Ageas include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr G says he was the victim of a street theft. He says one night in September 
2020 he was cycling home when he heard someone call what sounded like his name, so he 
stopped. Then, three persons approached him and stole his bag and watch. Mr G contacted 
the police the same night and raised a claim later with Ageas. He says the value of his items 
stolen totalled approximately £140,000. 
Ageas considered the claim but thought the information Mr G provided regarding the 
circumstances of the theft, and the proof of ownership of items, wasnt sufficient to validate 
the claim. So, they asked Mr G to provide further information. 
Mr G responded throughout the claim process, but Ageas still didnt think Mr G had 
demonstrated proof of ownership for the items being claimed for, amongst other things. Mr G 
says some items were gifted to him over a 14-year period, and he didnt hold receipts any 
longer. He provided a letter from a company which said their client had indeed gifted items  
but this didnt include the name of the person, contact details, or other information Ageas 
considered appropriate to validate this aspect of the claim circumstances. 
Mr G wasnt happy. He says when he insured the watch, he provided a valuation and Ageas 
accepted this  and put the watch on risk. The other items were covered by the policy too. 
Ageas, however, say the valuation Mr G provided for the watch wasnt a valuation  rather, 
Mr G contacted a retailer for a price for a watch he said he wished to purchase to gift to 
someone. They say he didnt take the watch to the retailer to have it valued. 
As Ageas maintained they couldnt progress the claim until Mr G provided more information, 
Mr G approached our service. He says he was a victim of a crime and was treated unfairly. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought Ageas were entitled to validate 
the claim and the information they requested Mr G provided seemed reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr G didnt agree. He says, broadly, he provided photos of him wearing the watch, 
demonstrated items were gifted, and has substantiated his claim. As he remained unhappy, 
the case was passed to me to have our services final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several points have been raised in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one. 
Were an informal service and so focus on the pertinent points. 
The watch being added to the policy 
Mr G says when he added the watch to the policy, he provided Ageas with a valuation. 
Ageas say they accepted this in good faith on the understanding Mr G had the watch valued 
 but this wasnt the case. When validating the claim, they approached the retailer, and they 
say they provided Mr G with a price for a watch he said he intended on purchasing as a gift 
for someone. And, what they provided Mr G wasnt a valuation for a watch theyd seen from 
him, nor was it ever intended to be. 
When asked, Mr G says he provided this information to the retailer to avoid paying a fee for 
a valuation. Mr G, however, argued that Ageas took this valuation and placed the watch on 
risk, and the policy didnt set out conditions on how a valuation should be obtained. 
Mr G says had Ageas raised these conditions sooner, they could have been easily met. 
Importantly, however, even if Mr G provided Ageas with a valuation  one that would have 
been accepted by them  in the event of a claim, the onus would still have been on Mr G to 
provide proof of ownership of the watch, and other items, as part of the validation process. 
The policy sets this out. Im not satisfied hes reasonably demonstrated this here and Ill 
explain why. 
Whether Ageas were fair to ask Mr G for more information 
Mr G says the watch and other items were gifted to him. To support this, he provided a letter 
from a company dated December 2020. This says a client of the company gifted the watch 
and other high-value items Mr G alleges were stolen. The letter goes on to say the person 
who gifted these items didnt want to become entangled in Mr Gs affairs. 
Mr G told Ageas a family friend gifted the items. He later explained the family friend was an 
ex-partner, whos now in a new relationship, he didnt want to involve. But, given the letter 
contained no name for the person Mr G says gifted these items, or contact details, I think it 
was fair for Ageas to request this to validate the circumstances further. Had these details 
been provided, I think it would have been reasonable for Ageas to request the person who 
gifted the items provides further details around proof of purchase, amongst other things, 
which could have supported the progress of the claim. 
Given the value of the watch and other items, I think its fair to say Id expect Mr G to be able 
to provide Ageas with more information to show proof of ownership  other than a letter from 
a person who hasnt provided their contact information. 
Mr G also provided photos he says show him wearing the watch and had described the 
watch as rose gold. Ageas didnt think the photos demonstrated proof of ownership given 
they show a photo of a watch on the wrist of a person that cant be identified  nor do they 
reasonably demonstrate the person wearing the watch owns it. They also had concerns 
around the metadata showing when the photos were taken and didnt think Mr Gs 
explanation that the photos  when opened  change the data showing when the original 
photo was taken. 
They also say the watch was described by the retailer as platinum  not rose gold as Mr G 
described. Mr G says he described the watch as he saw it when wearing it, and some parts 
of it are rose gold. But, given its been said the watch was described with a platinum case, I think it was fair for Ageas to ask Mr G more questions around this aspect. 
An insurer is entitled to validate a claim before deciding whether to settle it. Having reviewed 
the information being requested by Ageas  such as the requirement for Mr G to provide 
more information around proof of ownership, amongst other things  Im satisfied their 
enquiries were fair, reasonable, and proportionate, given the circumstances of the claim. 
So, in answering the question above, I find Ageas were fair to ask Mr G for more information 
before they could progress the claim. 
Summary 
Proof of ownership, amongst other things, is a fundamental part of any claim validation 
process. While I understand Mr Gs point that Ageas accepted the watch on risk (and other 
items), the claim notes suggest this was based on a valuation provided by Mr G that wasnt 
in fact a valuation of his watch he says was stolen. And in any case, in the event of a claim, 
the onus would still have been on Mr G to demonstrate proof of ownership, and that he 
suffered the loss hes claimed for. 
Given the circumstances surrounding this complaint, I dont find Ageas acted unfairly when 
requesting further information from Mr G  particularly around the details of the person he 
says gifted these items, and proof of ownership. Ageas say without this further information 
from Mr G, theyre unable to progress the claim to settlement, which Im satisfied on balance 
was reasonable. 
Should Mr G be able to provide further information to support his claim, he should present it 
to Ageas for further validation. Based on what Ive reviewed, however, I wont be requiring 
Ageas to take any further action. I say this because I find theyve been fair and proportionate 
in their handling of the claim given the circumstances and value of these items. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with Ageas  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman