DRN-3181017
The complaint
Miss M complains about a loan she took out with Zopa Limited (Zopa). In particular Miss M 
complains she could not afford the lending so Zopa acted irresponsibly in giving her the loan.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss M tells us she was not looking to apply for a loan. Rather she was 
browsing on websites trying to see how much she could borrow should she, in future, 
decide to take out a loan.
Miss M also tells us she filled in her details on Zopas website, and, much to her surprise, 
she found she had been accepted for a loan and the money had been deposited into the 
account she had designated.
Miss Ms stance is that she had misgivings about this not only because she had not 
realised she had applied for a loan with Zopa but because she did not think she could 
afford the loan. Therefore, she tells us she contacted Zopa to ask it if she could really afford 
to borrow this much from it, she tells us, it said yes. Feeling reassured Miss M decided to 
go ahead with the loan.
The loan was an unsecured personal loan for £7,000 to be paid back over a term of 36 
months, the monthly repayments were £280.86. Miss M suggests that very soon she was 
finding it a struggle to make the monthly repayments and had to use other forms of credit 
in order to be able to afford the repayments. Moreover, Miss M told us that since she took 
out the loan she has bought her own home and got married.
Miss M wanted the interest wiped from the loan and some assistance, she added I dont 
want to be paying this loan off for another three years. Miss M suggests that Zopa cant 
have done proper checks before lending to her because if it had, it would have seen she 
couldnt afford the loan and would not have lent to her. Miss M complained to Zopa.
Zopa responded to say that Miss M had to go through its application process in order to 
get the loan. As part of this process she had to have filled in her details, read the terms 
and conditions and confirm shed read them, and sign the agreement confirming she was 
applying for a loan. It pointed out she could have abandoned the application at any point
before she received the money. Further, she could have returned the money interest free 
within 14 days of receiving it.
Zopa added when it checked Miss Ms credit file as part of the application process it found 
no adverse data, further Miss Ms credit accounts were all in good order. It said it checked 
what she had said about her income and outgoings as part of the application process. It 
found that based on the information it had that she had a monthly disposable income of
£999.39. Therefore, based on all of this, it concluded she could afford to repay £280.86 per 
month. It pointed out that her payment history was good and did not suggest she had 
struggled to repay it. But it did say if her circumstances had changed since she took out 
the loan it would look at this point separately.
Dissatisfied with Zopas response Miss M came to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ms complaint. As part of their investigation they 
asked Miss M about her monthly expenditure. Miss M told us it was around £465 per 
month and set out the payments she made each month. She explained she lived at home 
with her extended family and did not pay rent. But she said her main expenses were food, 
transport and her contribution (paid in cash) to household bills. Later Miss M contacted us 
and said her monthly expenditure was in fact around £1,161 and she listed additional 
monthly costs that shed not mentioned previously such as contributions to her parents 
mortgage.
Miss M added that Zopa should have anticipated that within the life of the loan her situation 
would change, in particular, it should have realised that she would have rent or a mortgage 
of her own. She indicated that given how quickly she was accepted for the loan she was 
unsure about what checks Zopa could actually have done. Miss M complained about how 
Zopa had treated her during the Covid pandemic.
Zopa reiterated its stance that it had acted appropriately. It added it had carried out all the 
checks it is obliged to carry out. Further, it tested what Miss M told it about her income and 
about her other borrowing by using independent sources. It pointed out the information 
Miss M sent to us does not show any payments she made towards her housing or 
household bills. It wonders how it would have seen that she had these costs even if it had 
checked her bank statements. It also questioned how we had established Miss M did have 
such outgoings.
I issued a provisional decision. I summarise below what I said in the provisional decision.
Before I looked at the substance of Miss Ms complaint I dealt with two preliminary points.
Miss M had raised a new issue in relation to Zopas behaviour towards her during the Covid 
pandemic. This issue had not been raised with Zopa before it investigated Miss Ms 
complaint. As a consequence, it was not mentioned in Zopas final response, it followed that 
I had no power, in this decision, to look at this new point.
I also noted that Miss M had told us that she had not intended to take out a loan with Zopa. 
That said, I did not think this was something Miss M was mentioning as a complaint point. 
Rather she was just telling us this to give us some background. On that basis I made no 
finding about this point.
I looked at Zopas responsibilities towards Miss M. At the time it lent to her, it was a 
regulated business providing regulated finance. On that basis it needed to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. I set out what these were, namely, in brief, it was obliged to ensure 
that its lending was affordable and responsible. In particular, it was required to carry out 
checks that were proportionate in the circumstances, which might include considerations 
about the amount borrowed and Miss Ms borrowing history. 
That said, exactly what a lender should consider was for each lender to decide, however, the 
rules listed a number of factors which a lender such as Zopa might have wished to take into 
account. Further, Zopa had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Miss 
M could repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on her 
financial situation. This assessment needed to be borrower focused.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I thought 
there were some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I explained that these questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M wouldve been able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I looked at the checks that Zopa carried out. Zopa indicated that it had requested and 
reviewed information about Miss M from credit reference agencies, it looked at how her pre-
existing debt had been managed by her and also it took into account debt to income ratios 
based on the data Miss M had provided. Moreover, it said that its system is able to verify 
whether the income and expenditure information on [the applicants] credit file matches the 
information provided on [the loan] application.
According to Zopa, Miss Ms credit file showed she had a satisfactory repayment history in 
relation to her pre-existing debt and she was operating these accounts within her credit 
limits. Based on all the information it had, it concluded that Miss M had a monthly 
disposable income of £999.39, so [it] had no concerns about the affordability of the monthly 
repayments of £280.86.
Zopa pointed out that Miss Ms payment history in relation to the loan she had with it did not 
suggest to it that she had struggled to repay it.
Miss M had borrowed a relatively large sum which was to be paid back over a three year 
period. Given the amount she was borrowing and the term together with the size of the 
monthly repayments I said I think there was clearly potential for the repayments to have a 
substantial impact on Miss Ms financial situation. In these circumstances I would reasonably 
have expected Zopa to have looked closely at Miss Ms financial situation at the time. In 
particular, I would have expected any reasonable lender to check her income and 
expenditure. I recognised that Zopa tells us it verified her income and expenditure, but it has 
not told us how it did this. Although it is clear it did not check her bank statements. Given this 
is so, and in the absence of further information about how this information was verified, I 
found that I could not agree that its checks went far enough in the very particular 
circumstances of this complaint.
That said, I pointed out that it is not enough for me to say that I do not think Zopa carried out 
proportionate checks before it lent in order to tell Zopa it has to do something to put things 
right. I also have to be satisfied that if it had carried out proportionate checks it would most 
likely have found that Miss M could not afford to borrow from it.
When I looked at Miss Ms financial situation at the time there were some difficulties. As I 
mentioned earlier Miss M had given us varied accounts about her expenditure at the relevant 
time. With such discrepancies in mind I had some difficulty accepting the accuracy of Miss 
Ms recollections.
Further, given that Miss M tells us that a considerable portion of her monthly expenditure 
was made up of cash payments I am not able to check that payments did go to the payees 
as she suggests so that means I have to place even more reliance on her account of events 
as there is no audit trail in relation to those payments, as far as I am aware. 
Moreover, on the face of it, looking at what she was earning and what she told us at some 
points about her outgoings it does appear the lending was affordable.
In the circumstances, I did not agree that Zopa ought to have taken into account that in the 
three years that she had the loan her life circumstances would change as they did. It had no 
way of knowing, simply based on her age that she would make these life choices and that 
they would decrease her available income.
In the circumstances, for all of these reasons I did not find, on balance, that the lending was 
unaffordable. It followed that I found I had no proper grounds for saying that Zopa need to do 
anything further.
I invited both Miss M and Zopa to respond to the provisional decision. As far as I am aware 
we have received no response from Zopa. Miss M did respond. In summary, she let us know 
that the provisional decision had impacted on her mental health. Miss M did not agree that 
she had provided any information that was contradictory. She suggested that at the time she 
took out the loan and at the time we asked her about her finances she was in what she describes as a bad mental state. Moreover, given the passage of time she indicated it was 
unfair to expect her to remember such detail. Miss M asked that I avoid using a certain word 
as it had a negative impact on her mental health.
Further, Miss M suggested that the information Zopa gave was inaccurate and demonstrated 
that the checks it did were insufficient. Miss M told us that she did not agree that she had 
told us that her expenses per month at the relevant time were £465 per month. She gave us 
some more detail about what she said were her actual monthly expenses and income.
Miss M added Zopa was incorrect to indicate that her payment history with it did not suggest 
that she struggled to repay it. On the contrary, she told us about receiving emails from it 
about missed payments.
Miss M told us she is now only looking for the interest on the loan to be written off. Miss M 
also told us she has now repaid the balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss M for her detailed response to the provisional decision.
Ive reviewed the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
First, once again, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single 
point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I regret that Miss M was upset by the provisional decision, that was not my intention, far from 
it. It seems not only was she unhappy with the outcome, but she also appeared to be 
unhappy that I highlighted some variances in the information she had provided. However, it 
is my role to weigh up the information I have got and that includes thinking about 
inconsistent information and the weight I can give it.
I found in my provisional decision that Zopas checks did not go far enough in the very 
particular circumstances of this complaint. This point no longer seems to be in dispute. I say 
this because Zopa could have responded and told me it disagreed with this finding, but we 
have received no such response, as far as I am aware. That being so I dont think I need to 
revisit this point, although I acknowledge that Miss M has sent in further comments about 
this in her response to the provisional decision. Rather, the only issue now for me to look at 
again, is whether if it had carried out the checks it ought to have done Zopa would have 
found that Miss M could not afford to borrow from it and did it act unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.
In the provisional decision, and above I set out the reasons why I did not agree that, on 
balance, the lending was unaffordable. 
Miss M does not recall telling us about her monthly expenses and telling us that they were 
around £465 per month and then later telling us her monthly expenditure was in fact around £1,161. She gave us this information in telephone calls with our service which we 
documented. I dont reasonably expect Miss M to know in fine detail what her expenses 
were when she took out the loan, it was years ago. But I would expect her to know in broad 
detail. I take on board what she has told us about her mental health at the relevant times. 
But I also note she was able to provide us with other accurate information about her 
complaint at the same time. The difference in the figures is so substantial that it impacts 
significantly on the affordability of the loan. So, it is important that this information is 
persuasive, and I do not find it persuasive in the circumstances.
Miss M and Zopa have differing accounts about Miss Ms payment history. I dont have full 
details of this. But typically, if a loan is unaffordable this would be apparent from the pattern 
of repayments very early in the lifetime of the loan. From the information I have these early 
payments were not missed.
Ive not been persuaded by Miss Ms response to the provisional decision. It follows that I 
have come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in the provisional 
decision and again in this decision. For all of these reasons I find I have no proper basis for 
requiring Zopa to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman