DRN-4504133
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money have provided him with 
poor service.
What happened
Mr R has said that he was unhappy with the way he was spoken to by a Virgin Money 
member of staff, and Mr R felt he had a bad attitude. He was also unhappy with another 
colleague he spoke to over the phone as Mr R felt she was not listening to him and that she 
was not being helpful. Mr R says that he had to wait a long time on hold to get through to 
someone at the complaints team, and also with the length of time it was taking to complete a 
review on his previous complaint. Mr R made complaints about the service to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold Mr Rs complaints. They said they reviewed all of the calls and 
their agents were very respectful and nice to Mr R, but Mr R was rude and abusive to them, 
and he didnt want to listen while they were trying to advise him and go through letters with 
him. Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that Mr R had received an arrears letter and he was worried he would 
have a default registered on his credit file. But it seems Virgin Money dealt with this 
complaint in a timely manner. Our investigator said that Virgin Moneys records suggest Mr 
R had been verbally abusive to one of their advisors. So, he couldnt say that the call handler 
was wrong to terminate the call. Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Rs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear that this decision will only look into the service issues that Virgin Money 
have looked into and wrote to Mr R about in the various final response letters that hes 
forwarded to our service. His complaint about his charges do not form part of this decision as 
this is being looked at separately by our service. The final response letters dated 16 
February 2023 and 11 October 2023 will also not form part of this decision as these were 
issued several months after Mr R originally brought his complaint to our service. But if Mr R 
is not satisfied with Virgin Moneys response then he may be able to bring these complaints 
to our service also as Virgin Money confirmed his letter dated 11 October 2023 superseded 
his 16 February 2023 letter.
Ive looked at the service issues that has been addressed in Mr Rs various final response 
letters from Virgin Money. I can understand why Mr R would be distressed to receive an 
arrears notice as he was fearful this would ruin his life. But in the calls that Mr R has had 
with Virgin Money about his account, there is evidence that he has been abusive towards 
staff, which ultimately led Virgin Money to close his account, and they are entitled to make a 
business decision to do this.
Ive listened to a call that Mr R had with Virgin Money on 14 February 2022. Mr R was clearly 
distressed at receiving the arrears notice and he wanted this to be escalated. The call 
handler explained this had been escalated already and there was no response time she 
could give him for this to be completed. Mr R asked to speak to a manager and the call 
handler explained their process and that it had already been escalated and there was 
nothing further she could do. Mr R then asked her to log a complaint about herself as she 
wasnt listening to him, and she wasnt helping him.
Mr R made it known that because he received the arrears notice and this could stay on his 
credit file for six years, he mentioned several times he wanted to make a payment to his 
account. He said madam, I want to make some payment to resolve this matter, so you are 
refusing somebody cant take the payment and this will affect my credit rating. But the call 
handler does not acknowledge Mr R wants to make a payment. Instead she replies it 
doesnt have a timeframe, so I cant give you a time on, on when you will be contacted about 
it.
So I would have expected the call handler to either of taken a payment from Mr R, or if she 
wasnt able to do this herself, then she should have transferred the call to somebody who 
could have taken a payment from Mr R, especially given he stressed the urgency of the 
matter and the potential impact this could have on him. Mr R asks again so youre not 
helping me at all to take some payment? and the call handler replies Im sorry Im not 
giving you the answer youre looking for. Mr R says I want to make some payment about 
this card and he asks if there is nobody who can take the payment of the card.
Mr R says you cant refuse the payment, and the call handler says Im sorry, but I cant, I 
cant change the answer. Mr R says theres no question of this, someone should take the 
payment, I want to make some payment about my card, (inaudible) for direction. So you are 
refusing, you cant take any payment? The call handler says no, sorry. 
Mr R explains he has the notice of arrears and he wants to avoid that. He says someone 
should take the payment of wish I want to make. The call handler says Im sorry, but we, 
we cant do that. Mr R responds theres nobody who can take the payment? and the call 
handler says no. Mr R sounds upset as he asks are you refusing the payment as well?. 
The call handler says yes. 
So Im persuaded that the call handler did let Mr R down here. She clearly refused to help a 
customer who was in arrears make a payment or to transfer Mr R to somebody who could 
take a payment for him. As the call handler had confirmed multiple times that there was 
nobody able to take a payment to help clear the arrears when Mr R had made it clear the 
impact this could have on him, then this would have been distressing for Mr R. And he is 
audibly upset on the call at not being able to make a payment. The responses from the call 
handler would appear to Mr R that nobody from Virgin Money could take the payment for 
him. 
So Im satisfied that Virgin Money should pay Mr R compensation for the poor service he 
received on this call. He was audibly upset that despite the call handler keep saying she was 
listening to him, she wasnt listening to him saying that he wanted to make a payment. She refused to take a payment for him, and she confirmed there was nobody who could take a 
payment for him. 
Im persuaded that £100 compensation is proportionate for what happened here. Mr R gave 
the call handler multiple opportunities to tell him how he could make a payment, or to take 
the payment herself, or to transfer him to someone who could treat a customer in arrears 
positively and sympathetically. So it follows I intend to ask Virgin Money to put things right 
for Mr R.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr R did not respond to the provisional decision. Virgin Money sent me further 
phone calls with themselves and Mr R, but they did not respond to the provisional decision 
itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the further phone calls that Mr R had with Virgin Money, however, these do 
not change what I said in my provisional decision. As I said in the provisional decision Im 
persuaded that £100 compensation is proportionate for what happened here. Mr R gave the 
call handler multiple opportunities to tell him how he could make a payment, or to take the 
payment herself, or to transfer him to someone who could treat a customer in arrears 
positively and sympathetically. So it follows I intend to ask Virgin Money to put things right 
for Mr R. So my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr R £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr R £100 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman