DRN-2836171
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let her reject a car or contribute 
towards the cost of repairs. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Although the car was only some four years old it had covered a very high mileage and so it 
most likely will have suffered a fair degree of wear and tear. The garage which repaired the 
car has said that it considered the problem had been there for some time. However, the 
independent inspector has said: Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by 
the vehicle since point of finance inception we do not consider this would have been present 
or developing at that time.
The repairing garages comments do not make it clear that it believed the problem was 
present at the point of sale while the independent inspector has given his professional 
opinion that the fault was unlikely to have been present at the point of sale.
While the car had suffered some faults, which caused it to fail its MOT in November 2019 
these were addressed and it passed a couple of days later. Nothing was raised during the 
MOT inspection which gave cause to expect the subsequent engine failure.
For me to be able to uphold the complaint I need to be satisfied that car was faulty at the 
point of sale. With the car having covered just under 1,000 miles, passing its MOT and the 
independent inspector not supporting rejection I find it difficult to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that it was very disappointing for Mrs R to discover the car required a 
replacement engine and I can understand she will be disappointed with my decision. 
On the basis that it has not been established that the car was faulty at the point of sale I 
cannot require the business to accept rejection or contribute to the cost of repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman