DRN-3338435
The complaint
Mr D complains that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fee for a
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim he never authorised them to make.
Mr D is represented by Mr S in bringing his complaint.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr D in my decision.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr D said he received a settlement from his lender Ill call H for a PPI
claim he said he knew nothing about. Mr D sent a subject access request to H and found
that Allay had submitted the PPI claim on his behalf. Mr D said hed never authorised Allay
to do this for him. In January 2021, Mr D asked Allay about the PPI claim and submitted a
subject access request to them.
Mr D said the information Allay had about him was several years out of date and the
signature on the letter of authority (LoA) wasnt his. Mr D said H had acknowledged theyd
acted on incorrect information. And his internet provider confirmed they hadnt found any
connection to Mr Ds account for the IP address Allay said had been used to make the
application. Mr D complained to Allay as he said the digital signature used didnt comply with
the relevant regulations and Allay had failed to provide the agreement in a durable format.
Allay said theyd received an online application in July 2019 for them to pursue a free PPI
check. The LoA was signed and they submitted the details to Mr Ds lender, which theyd
accepted. Theyd used the contact details provided in the application to notify Mr D that PPI
had been found and had provided their claims service from this point. Mr D hadnt cancelled
the agreement and as his claim was successful because of the claim they submitted to his
lender their success fee is justified.
Mr D wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that, on balance, Mr D had authorised Allay to act on his behalf and so
Allay could charge their fee.
Mr D didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Ds claim was because of the submission they
made for him. Mr D is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from him
instructing them to act on his behalf. Mr D has said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. But
its not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. Mr D has made a number of points, I may not refer to
each specifically in my decision but please be assured all of the points raised have been
considered. In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than
not Mr D had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I consider he has, whether
Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted
fairly and reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the
expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim
based on a data subject request. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was
accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto
converted. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. Some of
the personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mr D has given this
service. But none of the contact details given match those that Mr D has given to us. The
LoA clearly asked for current and previous addresses so there was the opportunity for Mr D
to have added all the addresses connected to him. But the current address given relates to
an address Mr D said he left in 2008. Allay has shown us a trace search they did for this
address, and while it shows Mr D had an association with the address, the electoral roll
doesnt list Mr D, but does show that someone with the same surname on the electoral roll
left the address in 2014. Mr D has shown that any connection to this property ended at this
time.
Allay said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to progress.
And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated
with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted
without a signature being added.
Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In November 2019, I can see from Allays records that H told them Mr D had PPI on an
account. Allays records also show they emailed Mr D to notify him that PPI had been found
and to confirm his claim had been submitted in line with their terms and conditions. So as
outlined above Allays terms and conditions meant from this notification Allay would have
been providing their claims service. But the notification was sent to an email address that Mr
D says he hadnt actively used since 2015. Ive asked Allay if their records show these
emails being delivered, but they cant confirm this.
PPI being found didnt mean Mr Ds claim was successful as it needed to be considered by
H whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him.In November 2019, I can see that Allay sent Mr D further emails to the email address they
had on record. And a letter to the current address they had for Mr D (although this has been
shown not to be his current address) saying theyd been trying to contact him but hadnt had
any response.
In February 2020, H told both Mr D and Allay that his mis-sold PPI claim had been
successful and the amount of compensation to be awarded. But again, this notification is to
the incorrect current address that both H and Allay were using for Mr D. And for close to
the next 12 months, I can see a barrage of emails and SMS messages being sent to the
contact details Allay had for Mr D, all of which went unanswered. Until January 2021 when
Mr D questioned Allays authorisation to act on his behalf. This contact was generated by Mr
D following the settlement made by H several months after theyd upheld his PPi claim, and
not from any contact hed from Allay.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling
off period we obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to provide the various channels for doing this, telephone, email, downloading a
cancellation form from Allays website or in writing. But for Mr D to have been able to
exercise his right to cancel the agreement without 14 days, he would have had to have
known that Allay had submitted his complaint to H. While I dont think its enough to simply
disengage from the process to consider an agreement cancelled. Im not persuaded that Mr
D knew his PPI claim had been submitted and so he wouldnt have known that the 14 day
cooling off period had started.
I say this as the evidence shows that neither H or Allay had any response from Mr D when
theyd used the contact details provided on the LoA, over the course of more than a year.
And as this meant any redress was unknown to Mr D for several months, I find it difficult to
understand why anyone seeking recompense would provide out of date details for this. Im
persuaded by Mr Ds testimony that it wasnt just a case of the current address no longer
being his, but hed been using a different email address and mobile telephone number for
several years prior to the LoAs completion.
Further Mr Ds internet provider has stated that theyve no record of this IP address being
used on Mr Ds account. While an IP address is only an indicator and doesnt prove or
disprove it wasnt Mr D that used the IP address, the evidence given by his internet provider 
reinforces my thinking that the application was completed by someone other than Mr D, who 
had some knowledge of his details.
So, Im not satisfied that Mr D had the opportunity to cancel the agreement that had been
made with Allay as hed only received the information about his PPI claim from H as a
result of his subject access request. And this was after H had paid the redress for Mr Ds
successful claim.
Allays terms and conditions say:
If you terminate this agreement after the 14 day cooling off period and prior to an offer of
redress. Allay reserves the right to make a reasonable and proportionate
cancellation charge that will reflect the work undertaken by Allay in pursuit of your claim.
While I think the success of the claim was as a result of Allay submitting Mr Ds claim to H
before the August 2019 deadline. I dont think Mr D had the opportunity to ask Allay to stopwhat work they were doing in his name. Mr D as soon as he found from H whod submitted
the claim asked Allay to cease any further work. And Im persuaded this is what would have
happened if Mr D had the opportunity to cancel within the 14 day cooling off period. So, I
intend to ask Allay to waive their fee.
Responses to my provisional decision.
Mr D said that Allay hadnt complied with the relevant regulations by supplying the 
agreement in a durable medium. And that the situation had caused him trouble and upset 
over the time its taken to get the matter sorted.
Allay said:
IP addresses are sometimes dynamic and are often a range of numbers provided by 
the ISP. It is rare that households have a static IP address;
Mr Ds lender had accepted the signature provided as a true representation of Mr Ds 
signature, if they hadnt, they would have rejected the LoA; and
if Mr D believes that these funds have been fraudulently obtained then he should 
contact his lender and state this, as he shouldnt be in receipt of these funds.
My findings
Ive considered the additional comments that have been sent by both parties. Having done 
so Ive not been persuaded by either party to change my thinking.
Its clear Mr D feels Allay hasnt acted appropriately in their dealings with him and this has 
caused him some distress. 
Allay strongly believe that Mr Ds claim was only successful because of their submission of 
an LoA, that had been accepted by Mr Ds lender as being his authority for them to act on 
his behalf. I cant know who or how Allay was provided with Mr Ds out of date details and I 
dont think Mr D should return the redress hes received as H offered the compensation as 
a PPI policy had been mis-sold to him. But as I said in my provisional Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless 
there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.  And I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr D submitted a claim direct to H. So, I can understand Allays pursuance of their fee as 
the claim was successful because of the actions they took.
Allay has shown how they capture an IP address when an application is made for their 
services. But as I said in my provisional decision the IP address is only an indicator and 
doesnt prove or disprove it wasnt Mr D that used the IP address. But when added to the 
other information about Mr Ds  contact details it strengthens Mr Ds testimony that he didnt 
make the application.
I can understand Allays comment about Mr Ds lender accepting the LoA as being signed by 
Mr D and being his authority for Allay to act on his behalf. Mr D says its not his signature, as 
I said before its not our role to validate a signature. And I can also see that H didnt note 
the address details for Mr D werent correct. 
Mr D said Allay should have provided the agreement in a durable medium. A durable 
medium can cover a wide spectrum, it doesnt simply relate to a paper format. Allay has 
shown that access to a copy of the agreement was available to Mr D to download a copy or 
store a copy in a durable medium. And given Mr D said he wasnt living at the address Allay had on record, if theyd sent him a paper version of the agreement, I doubt he would have 
received it.
In deciding to uphold Mr Ds complaint its that Im not satisfied Mr D had the opportunity to 
cancel the agreement. So, I dont think its fair for Allay to ask Mr D to pay their fee.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Allay Claims Limited to waive their success fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman