DRN-3739331
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2018 by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that he was not told that he had to buy an Age Extension upgrade to the travel 
insurance when he took out his FPA in 2018, and as a result he has travelled for several 
years without cover.
Nationwide says it did tell Mr G he had to buy an Age Extension upgrade to the travel 
insurance, and it was his responsibility to do so.
Both parties agree that the sale took place through a lengthy meeting in a branch and that 
Mr G wanted the FPA for the travel insurance as he was a regular worldwide traveller.
I wasnt present in the branch discussion so I cant know what was said. I can only look at 
the evidence available today including the testimony of both parties to make my decision.
Having done so, while I dont doubt Mr Gs honest recollections, I think its more likely than 
not that his memory is mistaken, and he was told about the Age Extension upgrade required.
I say this because Nationwide has provided copies of the script its staff were required to 
follow, and the welcome pack it says it gave him, and both highlight the need for a customer 
to take out an Age Extension if they are over a certain age.
And Nationwide and the insurer have also provided evidence that Mr G contacted the insurer 
about the Age Extension at the time of the sale. 
For completeness, Ill also consider the wider aspects of the sale.
Mr G had previously had a fee free account with Nationwide, so I think its more likely than 
not he knew he had a choice whether to take the FPA out and he chose to do so.
There is no record of an assessment being made of Mr Gs circumstances or needs as I 
would expect to see if advice was being given or a recommendation made by Nationwide. 
And this service is aware that Nationwides sales were generally non-advised. 
So, I think its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale, and therefore Nationwide 
was only required to provide Mr G with enough information about the FPA to make an 
informed decision whether to buy it.
And I think its more likely than not that it did. I say this because the sales script and 
welcome pack I mentioned above contained the relevant information for Mr G and I dont 
think there was anything it didnt include which would have adversely affected him.
So, while I know that Mr G will be disappointed, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong 
in the sale of the FPA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman