DRN-3804187
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unfairly closed his account causing a 
default and reported this information to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
RBS carried out a review of accounts held by Mr H and decided to close them, giving him 
seven days notice. Mr H has explained that he wasnt aware of the closure at the time 
because he never received letters from RBS about his account being closed. RBS also sent 
Mr H texts about his account which he received.
At the time of the closure, Mr H was using his overdraft and RBS asked him to repay it. RBS 
have explained they sent two letters to Mr H about his account and the outstanding debt. 
But, Mr H says he never received them, and RBS eventually defaulted the account and 
passed the outstanding debt to another agency for them to collect.
Mr H complained to RBS about the treatment of his debt and wanted the default reversing 
and the credit reference reporting to be changed. Mr H was worried about the impact of the 
default on his credit rating. He explained he would have paid off the outstanding balance on 
his account if hed been made aware of it.
RBS didnt change their position and Mr H then brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr Hs complaint was looked into by one of 
our adjudicators who asked both parties for information about the issue. Mr H explained that 
hed been made aware of a problem with his account by text but hadnt received any letters 
regarding the closure of his account or the need to repay his overdraft. Mr H indicated he 
would have paid off the debt if hed been made aware of it to avoid the default that was later 
recorded against him.
RBS provided details of the letters sent to Mr H at his home address and argued that Mr H 
had been given over a month to resolve the debt which would have avoided the default 
notice being recorded against him. RBS believed that the seven days notice to close the 
account was appropriate.
After reviewing the information, our adjudicator felt that RBS hadnt acted fairly towards Mr H 
and should have given him more notice to close the account. Compensation was 
recommended together with the removal of the default. It was also recommended that a 
payment plan was agreed to settle the outstanding debt.
RBS disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations. They thought that their actions were
fair, and theyd operated within the terms of the account when providing seven days notice 
to close it and a further 28 days to arrange repayment of the debt. RBS made an offer to Mr 
H to remove the default if he paid off the debt within 14 days.
Mr H didnt accept the offer from RBS, so the complaint has now been passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main parts to this complaint  thats whether RBS acted within the terms of 
the account when they gave seven days notice to close it and how they then dealt with the 
outstanding debt and subsequent default of the account.
Account closure
RBS carried out a review of Mr Hs accounts after which they concluded they no longer 
wished to offer him banking services. RBSs terms enable them to close the account without 
giving the usual 60-day notice period under certain conditions.
Ive reviewed the evidence provided by RBS relating to this and whilst I wont be able to 
reveal the full extent of the information, I dont think they acted unreasonably here and the 
seven-day notice to close the account was fair. I appreciate Mr H will be left somewhat 
unhappy because the reasons for closing it remain unexplained to him, but I hope that he 
can take some measure of confidence from an independent review by this service of RBSs 
actions.
Default
When RBS decided to close the account, they blocked Mr Hs card and sent him messages 
by text and letter. Mr H was aware of a problem with his account from the texts he received 
and that his card no longer worked. But, Mr H denies receiving the letters from RBS that set 
out the need to repay the overdraft and the consequences of not doing so.
Ive seen the log from RBS that recorded the issue of the letters and I have no reason to 
doubt that they were sent to Mr H. At this point Ive not seen any evidence that they werent 
delivered such as problems with postal deliveries or thefts of mail at Mr Hs address. 
Mr H has said he tried to get in touch about his account but without success. Ive not seen 
any evidence of this from RBS (such as call logs or recordings), so if Mr H can provide 
details of his attempts to contact RBS, then Ill be happy to consider this information.
Its apparent from looking at the recent statements that Mr H was aware of his account 
activity and how much of the overdraft was being used because he would send funds to 
keep the overdraft within its limits. So, when he received information that RBS had issues 
with his account and that his card was blocked, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr H was 
aware he had an outstanding overdraft that he was required to repay to RBS. I dont think its 
central to the complaint whether Mr H received the letters from RBS because he chose not 
to repay any of the outstanding debt when I think it likely he knew hed already used it.
As far as RBS were concerned, theyd provided details of what was required to repay the 
loan and avoid a default but hadnt received any response or any funds to pay down the 
debt. I think it was reasonable for RBS to default the account and advise the credit reference 
agencies of the situation once theyd sent both letters to Mr H.
RBS made a further offer for Mr H to repay the debt and remove the default which he 
declined. This offer was following the adjudicators opinion. So, at the time Mr H declined to 
make any repayment, he thought that his complaint was to be upheld. I can understand why 
he did this, but the fact remains that he had an outstanding debt which Mr H said he would 
have repaid if he knew about it - but it doesnt appear that any payment was made towards 
the debt in the months prior to the complaint being raised with our service.As with any debt, the collecting organisation are obligated to take into account the 
circumstances of the debt holder, which is what Id expect to happen in this case when 
arranging for its repayment.
In summary, I currently think the seven-day notice to close was reasonable and the default 
of the account following a lack of payment or contact from Mr H was an appropriate way for 
RBS to deal with the monies they were owed.
I invited Mr H and RBS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr H didnt respond and RBS didnt have anything 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman