DRN-4088949
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that ClearBank Limited (Tide) wont 
reimburse all the money its lost to a scam.
Mr and Mrs B, who are directors of B, bring the complaint on Bs behalf.
Whats happened?
B has fallen victim to a safe account scam.
Mrs B has said that, on 14 June 2022, she received a call from someone pretending to work 
in Tides fraud squad (the scammer). The scammer called from a telephone number which 
matched the one on the back of Bs Tide bank card, they knew her name and they were 
aware of the current balance on Bs account. They said that B had been the victim of fraud. 
They asked Mrs B to confirm a number of transactions as genuine on Bs account, which she 
did, and eventually they came across a transaction which Mrs B did not recognise. The 
scammer told Mrs B that Bs account was at risk and Bs funds needed to be moved to a 
new account to protect them. She received an email from Tides genuine email address 
containing a QR code which she scanned so that Bs money could be moved out of the 
compromised account. Then, the following faster payments were made from Bs account to 
several different accounts held with Tide and other financial institutions:
Date of transaction Time of transaction Amount of transaction
14 June 2022 18:59 £30,000
14 June 2022 19:02 £40,000
14 June 2022 19:06 £20,000
14 June 2022 19:07 £50,000
14 June 2022 19:14 £50,000
14 June 2022 19:17 £50,000
14 June 2022 19:27 £30,000
14 June 2022 19:31 £25,726.28
The scammer set the payments up and Mrs B approved them.
The payments drained the available funds in Bs account.
Shortly after the payments had been made, Mrs B realised that something was amiss and 
reported the matter to Tide.
Tide didnt manage to recover any funds from the receiving accounts, but it said that it 
couldve recovered almost £100,000 of Bs funds if it had acted quicker. So, it offered to 
refund the amount it should have recovered, with interest, and pay B £200 compensation to 
recognise its delays in investigating this matter.
In referring a complaint about Tide to this Service on Bs behalf, Mr and Mrs B have 
explained that the scam has left B facing severe financial difficulties, and only able to trade 
on a very small scale. Bs staff have been let go because of an inability to pay them, and B 
has been unable to cover essential bills. There is a fear that B will go under because of what 
has happened.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that the first £30,000 payment shouldve triggered Tides fraud 
detection systems, due to its value and destination when compared with historic account 
activity. She said that Tide shouldve intervened with the payment and, if it had, its likely the 
scam wouldve been unveiled and all of Bs losses wouldve been prevented. So, she 
recommended that Tide reimburse Bs full financial loss, with interest, and pay £2,000 
compensation to recognise the financial and reputational damage B has suffered.
Tide did not accept our investigators recommendations. In summary, it said:
Businesses are expected to make large and regular transactions, including to new 
payees. Business customers have a reasonable expectation that they can transact 
freely and without undue friction. Tide cant be expected to routinely stop payments 
simply because they are larger than payments previously made, or because they 
involve a new payee. Commercial customers will commonly make large payments to 
new payees, and Tide has to take a risk-based approach so as not to cause a 
significant backlog in payment processing.
The faster payments made as a result of the scam were not immediately objectively 
unusual or suspicious, and it doesnt agree that there was a reason to intervene with 
the payments until at least the second £50,000 transaction. B regularly makes 
payments of £10-20,000 to new payees and makes multiple payments on the same 
day. B also made a genuine £50,000 payment eight months before the scam. So, the 
disputed transactions were not necessarily unusual and there could be a number of 
reasons for such activity. Tide accepts that Bs account was drained and that this 
was suspicious in hindsight but says that it wasnt drained until the later payments 
were made.
B should have had policies and processes in place to protect itself from fraud, and it 
failed to adequately protect itself. There was information about safe account scams 
on Tides website at the relevant time, and B shouldve been keeping itself abreast of 
relevant information about fraud and scams.
B ignored certain clear warning signs which could have prevented the scam and 
should be held at least partially responsible for its loss. Its implausible that Tide 
wouldve required Mrs B to go through such a convoluted process to transfer Bs 
funds out of a compromised account  it couldve paid one large amount out of the 
account rather than making several smaller payments of differing amounts. Mrs B 
didnt challenge or question the scammer or exercise appropriate caution. She had 
suspicions but continued regardless.
In relation to compensation, B is a business and cant suffer distress.Bs complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 3 March 2023. Ill set out what I said below.
Its not in dispute that B has been defrauded. Its also common ground that the payments 
made to the scam were authorised. Mrs B has said that the scammer set the payments up 
and she approved them. So, even though she didnt intend the payments to go to a 
fraudster, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. Tide 
had an obligation to follow the payment instructions it received, and B is presumed liable for 
its loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law; regulators rules and guidance; relevant codes of practice; and, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Tide should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm. 
Ive looked at Bs account statements and I can see that it was normal for several 
transactions to be made on the same day. Most transactions made were of relatively       
low-value, but payments of £1-10,000 were not unusual. Five payments for over £10,000 
were also made in the months leading up to the scam, including a payment of £21,750. So, I 
dont think its reasonable to expect the first £30,000 payment to the scam to have triggered 
Tides fraud detection systems because I dont consider that payment to have been 
particularly unusual or out of character in consideration of the normal account activity. Tide 
needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, against the risk of 
unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests.
But, when the second payment to the scam for £40,000 was made a few minutes after the 
first payment, I think its reasonable to expect Tide to have recognised that B was at risk of 
harm from fraud and intervened. Although irregular payments out of Bs account for over 
£10,000 were not out of character, multiple high-value payments in quick succession had not 
occurred before in the months leading up to the scam and were unusual. I consider that, by 
the time the second high-value payment was instructed, a few minutes after the first       
high-value payment, the activity on Bs account stood out as sufficiently suspicious to expect 
Tide to have asked B some questions about it.
I wouldnt expect a bank to interrogate its customers about unusual payments. But it doesnt 
appear that Mrs B was being coached by the scammer, so I think she wouldve spoken freely 
to Tide. If Tide had asked her some questions, its likely she wouldve explained that she 
was approving transfers of money out of Bs account to a safe account on Tides fraud 
squads instructions after being told Bs account had been compromised and, with its 
industry knowledge of fraud and scams, Tide ought reasonably to have realised that a safe 
account scam was underway. If Tide had done enough here, I think the second payment to the scam, and all subsequent payments wouldve been prevented. So, its fair and 
reasonable for Tide to reimburse all the payments made to the scam from the second 
payment onwards.
Ive thought about whether there are any other reasons Tide should refund the first payment 
to the scam, and I think there are. The payment went to another account held with Tide, and 
Tide has provided this Service with the relevant account statements. I wont discuss what 
they show in detail here but, considering the account activity, which I think was suspicious, 
its reasonable to expect Tide to have blocked the account before Bs money was transferred 
out of it. If it had done so, Bs money couldve been recovered.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Tide to reimburse all 
the money B lost to this scam, along with interest at the account rate from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement (because, from what Ive seen, I think its likely that Bs funds wouldve 
remained in its account but for the scam).
In the circumstances, I dont need to go on to consider whether Tide acted with care and 
urgency in trying to recover Bs money. Tide says it couldve acted quicker, and I accept that.
Ive thought about whether B should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. B fell victim to a sophisticated scam. From 
what Mrs Bs said, the scammer knew personal details about her and they had knowledge of 
Bs account balance and genuine transactions that had occurred on Bs account. Tides 
number was spoofed, and Mrs B received an email that appeared to come from Tides 
genuine email address. Overall, she was convinced that she was talking to Tide and taking 
action to protect the funds in Bs account. I can understand why the fraud went undetected 
by Mrs B.
I dont agree with Tide that B shouldve possessed any special knowledge about safe 
account scams, and I dont think its reasonable to expect B to have gone looking for 
information about safe account scams on Tides website. From what Ive seen, B is a 
relatively small business. Im not persuaded that B can reasonably be expected to have had 
an understanding of this type of fraud or how to protect itself against it, and I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that Tide attempted to impart its industry knowledge of safe account 
scams in an impactful way.
Tide has said that Mrs B ignored clear warning signs and proceeded with the disputed 
payments despite her suspicions. Its also pointed out that Mrs B realised something was 
amiss shortly after the payments had been made, and its suggested that she couldve done 
more whilst on the phone to the scammer to protect B. Mrs B has explained that she was 
suspicious at one point during her conversation with the scammer, but her mind was put at 
rest when she saw that the number the scammer had called her from matched the number 
on the back of Bs Tide bank card. I dont think thats unusual in this type of scam, or 
unreasonable. There were undoubtedly some red flags Mrs B couldve picked up on, and 
more she couldve done to protect B from financial harm, particularly with the benefit of 
hindsight and/or with more time to think. But the scam took place over a short period of time. 
In the heat of the moment, in a pressured situation, I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs B 
didnt realise B was being defrauded.
Finally, I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to require Tide to pay B 
some compensation. Im very sorry to hear of the negative effects this scam has had on B. It 
is clear, from what Mr and Mrs B have said, that B is in financial difficulties and struggling to 
survive as a result of the scam. Ultimately, Bs loss was caused by the cruel and callous acts 
of a fraudster. But, if Tide had prevented the scam from the second payment onwards as Im 
satisfied it ought to have and/or of it had reimbursed B in a timely manner, then the negative effects of the scam wouldve been lessened.
It is true that a business cannot suffer distress, but a business can suffer inconvenience and 
reputational damage. And, in the circumstances, I think its fair for Tide to compensate B for 
the additional impact its caused in terms of finances, operations and reputation. I think a 
total award of £1,000 is fair in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision on Bs behalf. But Tide did not. In summary, 
Tide said:
Tide doesnt invigilate, and is not required to invigilate, customer interaction with 
mobile or web applications in real time as part of its suspicious activity monitoring 
processes.
Commercial customers, like B, are much more likely to transact large amounts within 
a short space of time and to multiple payees  this is not exceptional behaviour. Tide 
wasnt required to intervene with the second payment. The payments became 
unusual at a much later stage. 
As is standard in the financial services industry, Tide monitors customer accounts for 
suspicious activity. What amounts to suspicious activity is a complex risk-assessment 
conducted by automated machine-learning processes. This risk-assessment 
considers, amongst other things, transactions on the account, but transaction 
patterns will often not be fully determinative of whether there is suspicious activity. B 
regularly made high-value transactions. My provisional decision doesnt explain why 
a £40,000 payment shouldve triggered when B regularly transacted multiple 
amounts on one day and had previously made higher-value payments.
Tide couldnt reasonably have prevented Bs loss on the receiving side. 
Tide has uncovered new data which shows that the payment process during the 
fraud event was complicated, and different to what Mrs B was used to. She ought to 
have realised that the payments werent genuine, causing her to cease 
communication with the scammer, before the first disputed payment. Numerous, 
separate steps were required to enable the scam, including:
oMrs B logged into her mobile application over 20 times during the fraud event 
 theres no evidence to suggest she checked for impropriety, which would 
have been visible to her, on any occasion.
oMrs B scanned QR codes received by email, to give the scammer access to 
Bs account, on several occasions. Mrs B will have been familiar with the use 
of QR codes to log onto Tides web application. But she will never have 
experienced QR codes being used in this manner or with such frequency and 
will never have received QR codes by email from Tide to facilitate web 
application log-in access. This shouldve been concerning to her.
oMrs B shared one-time passcodes (OTPs) she received via text message 
with the scammer to set-up each new payee (the last four digits of the new 
payee account number wouldve been displayed in the text messages) and 
authorise each transaction. Sharing security details in this way is a breach of 
Bs account terms and conditions. Its also an unusual step to take - genuine 
banks would never ask for OTPs to be shared, and its not something Tide wouldve asked Mrs B to do previously.
oMrs B approved all payments in her mobile application  six of which were 
unsuccessful, including the first four attempted payments. She wouldve seen 
the payee name and payment amount when doing so. It shouldve been a red 
flag that several transfers to different payees were being made instead of one 
transfer to one new account in the name of B.
The interaction between Mrs B and the scammer lasted around an hour and there 
were lots of separate calls, rather than one continuous conversation. There was a 
half-hour period between the first QR code being scanned and the first successful 
payment. The timeframe is suspicious. If Bs funds were imminently at risk, why 
would it take a genuine bank so long to carry out the simple task of moving Bs 
funds? Its also implausible that a genuine bank would move the funds out of its 
customers account in several payments of random amounts, rather than one     
lump-sum.
Mrs B has said that her mind was put at rest by number spoofing, but engagement 
with the scammer had been ongoing for at least 30 minutes prior to the first 
successful payment. In that time, shed been sent several QR codes and there had 
been four unsuccessful payment attempts. Any initial comfort Mrs B had gained from 
seeing a familiar telephone number shouldve been outweighed in the first 30 
minutes of Mrs Bs interaction with the scammer, prompting her to discontinue the 
conversation.
Its implausible that Tide wouldve had to ask Mrs B to give it access to Bs account. 
Its also implausible that it wouldve lost access to Bs account and sent new QR 
codes to regain access on so many occasions.
The emails Mrs B received from the scammer did not come from an email address 
which matched, closely resembled or mimicked Tides. 
Mrs B continued to approve payments out of Bs account despite having suspicions 
about what was happening.
B is a long-standing customer of Tides. Mrs B ought to have known how payments 
are processed and how Tide usually contacts its customers.
Mr and Mrs Bs further comments
The scammer knew Mrs Bs name, and they knew about genuine transactions on Bs 
account and Bs account balance. Mrs B assumed that only Tide would have access 
to that information. The scam call came from Tides genuine telephone number. The 
emails Mrs B received appeared to come from Tides fraud departments email 
address. The OTPs Mrs B received were sent by Tide, and shes received these text 
messages before when setting-up new payees. Mrs B approved payments to payee 
names she expected to see and didnt notice any details about the account numbers. 
Mrs B didnt question the scammer as she thought she was talking to Tide on Tides 
telephone number, receiving emails from Tides fraud departments email address, 
receiving text messages from Tide and approving payments in her mobile application 
that Tide had set-up. Mrs B became suspicious towards the end of the fraud event 
but was reassured by the sophistication of the scam.
The mobile and internet signal in Mr and Mrs Bs property is poor. There were 
several calls between Mrs B and the scammer because her phone signal kept dropping. She was told that the poor connection was the reason why she had to keep 
scanning new QR codes, demonstrating how secure the bank is. The poor 
connection was frustrating and added to the stress Mrs B was feeling  she was very 
worried that Bs money was unsafe and Tides efforts to protect it were being 
hindered. 
Mrs B thought that the first four failed payments were as a result of the poor 
connection in her property.
The scammer instructed Mrs B to delete the emails shed received from them after 
scanning the QR codes to protect B from further fraud. 
Mrs B realised shed been scammed when all of Bs money had been moved out of 
its account, but she couldnt see a new account with Bs funds in it on her internet 
banking.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For all the reasons Ive already set out in my provisional decision, and considering my 
findings below, Im still persuaded that the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this 
complaint and instruct Tide to reimburse Bs full financial loss, with interest, and pay £1,000 
by way of compensation.
I consider that Tides response to my provisional decision falls into three broad categories: 
intervention, receiving account and contributory negligence. Ill address each category in 
turn.
Intervention
Tide has said that the 2017 British Standards Institution code for protecting customers from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse (the BSI code) doesnt apply in this 
case. The BSI code codified what should already have been good industry practice and, as 
Tide has pointed out, it is standard in the financial services industry to monitor customer 
accounts for suspicious activity. I consider this to be good industry practice and Im pleased 
to see Tides confirmation that it does monitor accounts in the manner Id expect to see.
I accept the theory that commercial customers, like B, are much more likely to transact large 
amounts within a short space of time and to multiple payees. But consideration of what is 
exceptional behaviour for a particular customer  commercial or otherwise  is subjective. 
Not every commercial customer operates their account in the same way. Multiple and/or 
high-value transactions to new payees may well be exceptional behaviour for some 
businesses (particularly smaller businesses) when it isnt for others. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, it was usual for B to make several transactions on the 
same day  mostly of relatively low-value  and the occasional higher-value payment wasnt 
unusual. That is why I dont think its reasonable to expect the first £30,000 payment to the 
scam to have triggered Tides fraud detection systems. I dont consider that payment to have 
been particularly unusual or out of character in consideration of the normal account activity. 
But, when the second payment to the scam for £40,000 was made a few minutes after the 
first payment, I think its reasonable to expect Tide to have recognised that B was at risk of 
harm from fraud and intervened. Although irregular higher-value payments out of Bs account were not out of character, multiple high-value payments in quick succession had not 
occurred before in the months leading up to the scam and were unusual. Also, rapid,      
high-value transactions are often characteristics of scams, and safe account scams in 
particular  and I think Tide ought to know this. I consider that, by the time the second    
high-value payment was instructed, a few minutes after the first high-value payment, the 
activity on Bs account stood out as sufficiently suspicious to expect Tide to have asked B 
some questions about it. And, if it had, I remain satisfied that the second payment to the 
scam, and all subsequent payments wouldve been prevented.
Tides evidence that there were four unsuccessful payment attempts prior to the first 
disputed payment adds weight to my finding that Tide ought to have realised something was 
amiss by the second disputed payment and intervened to prevent the scam. By this time, 
there had been four unsuccessful payment attempts and two high-value payments out of Bs 
account, all in quick succession.
Receiving account
Tide has said that it couldnt reasonably have prevented the loss of the first disputed 
payment on the receiving side, but I respectfully disagree. Tide hasnt provided any new 
evidence or information on this point, and I remain satisfied that it should fully refund the first 
disputed payment for the reasons Ive already explained. I consider that the receiving 
account activity was suspicious  a high-value payment credited the account within a few 
days of account opening and was quickly disbursed  and its reasonable to expect Tide to 
have blocked the account to carry out further checks before Bs money was transferred out 
of it. If it had done so, Bs money couldve been recovered.
Contributory negligence
Ive carefully reconsidered whether B should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence in light of the new evidence Tide has provided, but I still dont think it 
should. 
B fell victim to a sophisticated scam. From what Mrs Bs said, the scammer knew personal 
details about her and they had knowledge of Bs account balance and genuine transactions 
that had occurred on Bs account (the scammer most likely gathered the relevant information 
through a phishing or smishing attack based on what I know about these types of scams). 
Mrs Bs explained that she thought only Tide would have access to that information. Tides 
number was spoofed, and Mrs B received emails that appeared to come from Tides fraud 
department (I appreciate that she didnt check this but looking at the email address 
concerned and considering that Mrs B was already convinced she was speaking to Tide for 
good reason by the time she began to receive the scammers emails, I dont think her 
assumption and lack of verification here was unreasonable). The OTPs Mrs B received were 
sent by Tide, and she approved payments to payee names she expected to see in her 
mobile application. Shes said that she became suspicious towards the end of the fraud 
event but was reassured by the sophistication of the scam. Overall, Mrs B was convinced 
that she was talking to Tide and taking action to protect the funds in Bs account, and I can 
understand why.
As Tide has pointed out, there were red flags that Mrs B couldve picked up on, and there 
was more that she couldve done to protect B from financial harm  particularly with the 
benefit of hindsight and/or with more time to think. But Mrs B understood that the poor 
mobile and internet connection in her property was the reason for the convoluted payment 
process and failed payments, so her suspicions werent roused in this respect. And, although 
she may be familiar with Tides usual payment processes and contact methods, she has not 
been under the impression that she needed to move money out of a compromised account before and I cant say she ought reasonably to have been aware of what that process looked 
like. In any event, the scam took place over a relatively short period of time. Mrs Bs 
explained that the constant loss of signal was frustrating and added to the stress she was 
feeling  she was very worried that Bs money was unsafe and Tides efforts to protect it 
were being hindered. In the heat of the moment, in a highly pressured situation, I dont think 
its unreasonable that Mrs B didnt realise B was being defrauded. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
ClearBank Limited to:
Reimburse Bs full loss, along with interest at the account rate from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement.
Pay B £1,000 by way of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman