DRN-2799420
The complaint
Mrs P brings this complaint on behalf of P ( a company) in her capacity as a director of that 
company. P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC ( Barclays) caused a data breach when 
they allowed a member of  Ps staff access to bank accounts online. 
What happened
Mrs P says a member of Ps staff who held restricted access to certain bank accounts with 
Barclays, was for a short period of time allowed full access, online, to all the business bank 
accounts. Mrs P says this included sensitive bank account information, they didnt want their 
employee to have. P believe this is a direct breach of data and has caused the business 
considerable problems and feel the offer of £50 made by Barclays doesnt go far enough to 
compensate for the inconvenience suffered by P.
Barclays didnt agree there was a data breach as the member of Ps staff was an official of 
the company but accept there was a technical issue which gave Ps employee,  access to 
other bank accounts. Barclays have apologised for the error and say they corrected this as 
soon as they became aware and have offered P £50 as way of an apology. 
P werent happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that while a technical error caused the problem which allowed Ps employee 
access to other bank accounts, this didnt constitute a data breach as the member of staff 
would have had access to all the bank accounts of P, given she was an official of that 
company in Barclays records. The investigator felt the offer of £50 , already paid by Barclays 
was fair in the circumstances.
P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons, and I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been worrying for the directors of P to learn an employee had 
been given online access, to all of its bank accounts , when this should have been restricted 
to a specific number of bank accounts, held with Barclays. When looking at this complaint I 
will consider if Barclays have breached Ps data and if the compensation they have offered,  
is reasonable here. P in their complaint to this service felt Barclays actions were a GDPR      
(General Data Protection Regulation)  breach and feel the compensation offered by them, 
doesnt go far enough to cover the upset caused and the difficult conversations held with 
their long-standing employee. 
The first thing to say here is this isnt a matter of a GDPR breach as this only relates to living 
individuals  - not limited companies. Its also fair to say in this case this is not so much an 
issue of a data breach but more of a matter of a potential bank account access error and 
confidentiality, caused by a technical issue with Barclays online banking system . 
While Barclays have stated the employee of P was an official because she held authority 
on the bank accounts, that doesnt alter the fact ,the employee only had limited access to 
bank accounts, agreed by both parties. I say this because from the information provided to 
this service, while the employee of P was given authority on Ps bank account this was 
restricted to certain accounts. That said, B have accepted a technical error did occur with 
their online system which caused the change in access given to the employee of P. So, its 
fair to say an error did occur here. Its worth mentioning this error was highlighted and 
corrected by Barclays when it was brought to their attention. From the information I have 
seen the access to the other bank accounts was limited to a matter of minutes and some of 
that information would be of public record at Companies House, including any loans it might 
have, which seems to be one concern of P.  
Thats not to say an error didnt occur here, but when looking at the impact to the business I 
need to consider any financial loss suffered by the business, but as this matter was reported 
by the employee to the business quickly and then resolved by Barclays, I cant say there has 
been any here. Mrs P says the matter caused upset in the business and difficult discussions 
needed to be held with their employee over the incident. While I understand this point, it is  
important to say, although Mrs P may not agree, this service cant award compensation 
payments to a company for distress and upset as a company cant suffer this. 
Barclays have told this service the bank account mandate they hold does allow named 
officials to conduct other activities. It says, for example, this might include copy statements, 
so P may wish to discuss with Barclays the full extent of its employee authority, to be certain 
this meets with their understanding and requirements going forward. Its good to see that 
Barclays have apologised for their system error and paid P £50 by way of an apology. Its 
not my role to penalise businesses when genuine system errors occur and given there was 
no obvious financial loss to the business, I am satisfied this is a reasonable amount of 
compensation in the circumstances, for the reasons I have given. 
It follows, while P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman