DRN-3801183
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Tuto Money Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Tuto Money.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his former employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred 
to Tuto Money which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr S was 35 years old, married and with three dependent children. He was described 
as being in good health and at the time.
Mr S lived in a home valued at around £110,000 with a mortgage outstanding of 
around £76,000. Mr S earned around £30,000. Mrs S also worked, part-time. After 
expenses they had some disposable income left over. They had some loans and 
credit card balances outstanding.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss BSPS was approximately 
£202,101. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. He had accrued these benefits 
after over 9 years service, and hed since moved jobs.
Mr S had an additional defined contribution (DC) pension said to have £23,000 in it. 
He was also currently contributing to a DC pension with his new employer although 
this had not long started. These arent the subject of any complaint.
Tuto Money set out its advice in a suitability report on 17 November 2017. In this it advised 
Mr S to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Tuto Money said this would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2022 Mr S complained to Tuto Money about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Tuto Money said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto Money's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Tuto Money should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Tuto Money. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Financial viability 
Tuto Money referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr S was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
Tuto Money said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
BSPS, was 4.98% if Mr S took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free 
lump sum, the critical yield was slightly lower. Tuto Money also calculated the critical yield 
rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because Mr S had apparently 
expressed a desire to retire early. However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was 
still a very long way off for Mr S and so I very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was 
anything more than something he just aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. For 
the age of 60, the critical yield came out at 5.35%. 
In 2017 we were in a period of sustained low interest rates and bond yields. And I dont think 
that whatever critical yield figures one uses here, that there was any credible evidence that 
achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, 
was likely to be achievable. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. If considering an early retirement, at the age of 60, the 
discount rate was only 4.6% (24 years to retirement). Ive also kept in mind that the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and 
the lower projection rate was 2%.
At the time, Tuto Money assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR) as lower medium and he 
was an inexperienced investor. I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or 
evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial 
comparison basis. Growth assumptions close to the regulators lower projections and also to 
the discount rate were most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of 
around 4 % were much more realistic here. These were still below the critical yield figures 
for the BSPS2. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees 
associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr S, would 
have further reduced the likely growth. So, I think this showed that achieving the critical 
yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. In my view, there would be little point in irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme at 
the age of 35 to obtain lower  or even similar benefits  to that scheme. There would be still 
less reason to take that course of action after deducting the fees and charges as Ive 
described above as these clearly implied growth outside the DB scheme would probably be 
lower. So there was a very real risk of Mr Ss pension benefits being lower at retirement than 
they otherwise would be.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Tuto Moneys own transfer analysis said that even 
in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £306,498. For the age of 60 
the amount required was £268,222.
To reiterate, these figures are found in Tuto Moneys own analysis based on data the 
regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. To be clear, these sums were to buy a 
much inferior pension. And because these figures are far above Mr Ss CETV, they 
represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr S 
could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme 
that was on offer here.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Tuto Moneys 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr S would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS2. 
Ive also considered some projections Tuto Money used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr S well into retirement. Again, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair 
to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What Tuto Money was showing Mr S were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Tuto Money, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Tuto Money said Mr S also had other reasons to transfer away, so 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
Tuto Money recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were 
Mr Ss wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice 
sessions to summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away: 
Tuto Money said Mr S wanted to retire at 60.
By transferring, he could vary the level of income received throughout retirement. 
Transferring would ensure the full value of any fund could be inherited as a death 
benefit.
He would move his benefits away from the scheme if he transferred and he had lost 
trust in his former employer / scheme.I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr S approached Tuto Money for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
But as Ive mentioned above, Mr S was still only 35 years old and in good health. In this 
context, I think Tuto Moneys adviser saying Mr S had specific uses for his retirement funds 
lacked any credibility. 
In my view, the adviser portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr S had with the proposed 
BSPS2 in a negative dimension. The implication was that transferring to the BSPS2 was 
somehow too restrictive for Mr S and unsuitable for him.
But I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ss very young age by pension 
standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr S  understandably - had no concrete 
plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 29 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly 
use the money for, or how much he thought he might need, should have been major 
influences in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved 
an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at 
retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr S probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this.
Flexibility 
I also cant see that Mr S required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Tuto Money. I therefore think this was no more 
than a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal 
plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr S required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing 
job and another existing DC fund. His current employers DC pension was being contributed 
towards by both Mr S and his employer and still had up to 29 years left to run (24 years if he 
did eventually retire very early). So, these other pensions would have afforded Mr S any 
flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr S could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  
up to 29 years. So, if Mr S ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to 
use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr S had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr S was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr S himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £202,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr S 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Tuto Money itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr S had speculated that he 
might need in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing 
retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr S speculated that 
he might have needed around £12,000 per year in todays money and this was accepted 
without challenge by the adviser.
However, in my view this was nothing more than guesswork because retirement was 
decades away for Mr S. He had three dependent children; his youngest child was still only a 
baby. He had a mortgage with years left to run and what looked like normal household debts 
to pay down. Mr S, in my view, could also realistically be said only to be mid-career. In 
short, he and Mrs S still had their whole lives ahead of them. Tuto Moneys analysis set out 
the estimated pension Mr S could get at 60 and 65. However, theres simply no reason for 
me to address these figures as retirement was so far away and transferring was very clearly 
unsuitable. No-one could predict what Mr Ss retirement would look like.
I therefore think Mr Ss circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him being able to build a pathway in the years ahead to retiring earlier than 65 if he felt he 
really needed to. There would have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his 
age at the time. And because Mr S had the capacity to increase contributions to his new DC 
scheme, this generally supported that strategy. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr S died. Mr S was married and had children so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs S if he predeceased her. I dont think 
Tuto Money made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
The adviser told Mr S that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr S. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tuto Money explored 
to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr S was only 35 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr S had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I note life insurance was discussed in this case and even a whole life policy matching the 
CETV from day one wasnt that expensive. But at 35 years old, a term life insurance policy 
would have also been a reasonably affordable product if Mr S really did want to leave a large 
legacy for a specific relative or someone else. But more so, it doesnt appear that Tuto 
Money took into account the fact that Mr S could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his other DC schemes. So, to this end, Mr S already had plenty of options 
ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him. There was no need to transfer.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his former company, was concerned about his 
pension. His former employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the 
scheme and Tuto Money said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things 
about the PPF and Tuto Money said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Tuto Moneys obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Tuto Money 
should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Tuto Moneys recommendation to Mr S to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Tuto Money recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr S and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear 
advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Tuto Money ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
I dont think it was in Mr Ss best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr S still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr S would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Tuto Money should have advised Mr S to opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think Tuto Money should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Tuto Moneys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Tuto Money 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tuto Money should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that Tuto Money should pay Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr S in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr S. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. Tuto Money should pay Mr S this amount in addition to the redress Ive 
set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Tuto Money 
Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman