DRN-3572190
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr P has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr Ps house was built in 2005. In 2019, he first noticed cracks developing. He took 
advice from G, a structural engineer.
G thought the cracking had been caused by subsidence due to nearby trees.
Mr P got in touch with Ageas about the damage. It appointed C, a loss adjuster, who 
arranged various investigations, including soil testing, arborist advice and monitoring. 
C said the foundation was too shallow and declined the claim.
Mr P complained about this. Ageas said the foundation depth amounted to poor 
design and maintained the claim should be declined.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Ageas had 
shown which standards applied at the time the house was built. And Mr P had shared 
certificates showing the house construction was approved by building control and a 
structural warranty provider. She wasnt satisfied this supported Ageas position. She 
also recommended Ageas pay £750 compensation.
Mr P agreed but Ageas didnt. It reiterated that the foundation depths were too 
shallow to meet the relevant standards  and the depth recommended in the original 
construction drawings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a number of terms of 
conditions. Ageas accepts the damage was caused by subsidence. Its relied on one of the 
terms to decline the claim. The term says:
We wont pay for damage caused by faulty materials, poor design or poor 
workmanship. This includes any work on your buildings that didnt meet building 
control regulations when the work was completed
In a nutshell, Ageas thinks the foundation was poorly designed  and that caused the 
subsidence problem. It points to the original construction drawings, the standards of a 
certain builder of new homes, N, and other standards to support its position. The onus is on 
Ageas to show the foundation was poorly designed in order to rely on the term above.
Theres been much disagreement about the foundation depth at Mr Ps home. Ill explain 
below why I dont think its necessary for me to go into detail about some of the points which 
have been made about this.
I understand the original drawings recommended a depth of 1,000mm, although that was 
subject to the site conditions and building control agreement.
The first investigation C arranged for Ageas indicated a depth of 400mm under the damaged 
area of the house. Mr P explained why he and G didnt think that was right. C agreed to 
arrange another investigation and that supported what Mr P had said  it showed the 
foundation in the relevant area was 800mm deep.
Ageas remained concerned that this depth was less than that recommended originally. But I 
note this was a recommendation only  and the actual depth was to be agreed once the 
specific conditions of the site and the agreement of building control had been sought. Im 
also aware that Mr P considers the full depth was achieved originally, but changes to the 
ground level may make it appear otherwise now.
Mr P has shown the house received a certificate of completion from the local building control 
office. And he notes the building control inspector monitored the construction throughout its 
various stages prior to providing the certificate  as is usual practice.
At the time of construction, I understand building regulations required a minimum foundation 
depth in clay of 750mm. The judgement of those involved in the construction is to be used to 
determine how much deeper, if at all, the foundation ought to be. Building control has signed 
off the construction, including the foundation depth, as meeting building regulations.
Ageas has also referred to standards of a certain builder of new homes, N. Under these 
standards, Ageas says the foundation should have been significantly deeper than it is. Ns 
standards are relevant here because N provided a structural defect warranty for Mr P. Hes 
shown N signed off various stages of construction, including excavation, substructure, and 
completion. That means N was satisfied the way the house was built, including the 
foundation, was consistent with its standards and it was prepared to provide insurance 
should a defect in construction arise.
Whilst Ageas has argued that Ns standards werent met, the evidence shows N considered 
they were. I understand an inspector representing N monitored construction at the key 
stages in order to provide the sign off documents  again, this is usual practice.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Ageas engaged with building control or N to explore 
the matter further. So I take the certificates at face value.
Overall, this means Mr P received certification from building control and N to show that the 
standards required by both organisations had been met during construction  including the 
depth of the foundation. Whilst I recognise Ageas has its concerns about the foundation 
depth, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to rely on the certificates provided by these two 
organisations to satisfy himself that his house had been built to the appropriate standards. 
Both organisations are credible and reliable sources of expertise in home construction, so 
Im satisfied their opinions carry considerable weight. And I think it was reasonable for Mr P 
to see things the same way.No other relevant standards have been put forward by Ageas. So Im not persuaded Ageas 
has shown the policy term relating to poor design by applies  or that it would be fair to rely 
on it to decline the claim.
To put things right, Ageas should now accept the claim. The remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy will apply.
I also think Ageas should pay Mr P compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
he has unnecessarily suffered during the claim.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to carry out the investigations it did. Many of them 
helped to understand the cause of damage and will be useful when determining what the 
next steps for the claim are.
But it took much longer to do this than Id usually expect. And there were gaps in claim 
progression and communication during that time. That means it took longer than it should 
have done to reach a decision about the claim. And, for the reasons above, I dont think that 
decision was the right one.
So all things considered, the claim has been subject to significant and avoidable delays. Im 
satisfied thats caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience to Mr P. I think £750 is 
reasonable and proportionate compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Accept the subsidence claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Pay £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman