DRN-2222190
The complaint
Ms P says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Ms Ps credit card account about six months after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint because:
I think Barclays made Ms P aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember this. Ms P originally 
applied for her credit card by post, and no PPI was added at the time. Instead it was 
added several months later during a phone call. Clearly I cant know exactly what was 
said to Ms P during the call  but I cant see how she thought she had to buy the PPI to 
get the card, because she already had it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ms P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Ms P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think she would still have taken out the policy
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman