DRN-3896227
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt treat him fairly when he 
asked it to extend the term of his mortgage. A representative, who Ill refer to as Mr L, has 
helped Mr M with this complaint. 
What happened
The term of Mr Ms interest only mortgage expired in April 2022. Hed intended to repay it, 
but his plans changed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M asked Halifax to extend the 
term.
Halifax said a term extension on a repayment basis was affordable provided Mr M reduced 
the loan by about £7,500. Mr M did this in early March 2022. Mr L says Halifax made a 
mortgage offer on this basis, but problems with its own systems meant Mr M couldnt access 
and accept the offer. Halifax said it didnt make an offer as it realised there had been an 
error when it checked Mr Ms income. It said Mr M needed to reduce the loan by another 
£5,000 before re-applying. Halifax accepts it made errors and paid compensation of £150.
Mr L says that Halifax should allow Mr M to proceed with the original mortgage offer with the 
interest rate available at that time.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Halifax to check the mortgage was affordable 
before making an offer to extend the mortgage term. Our investigator said Halifaxs error 
caused upset and it should pay further compensation of £150, which Halifax agreed to do.
Mr L says its absurd for Halifax to say Mr M has to repay the mortgage because an 
extension isnt affordable. He said its wrong for Halifax to exclude income Mr M could draw 
from his flexi-pension when assessing affordability. Mr L says repaying the mortgage now 
would have tax implications for Mr M which means its not in his best interests.
Mr L says Halifax made an offer to Mr M (he provided a screen shot which he says is 
evidence of this) and admitted its errors. He said if Halifaxs systems had worked properly 
Mr M would now have a mortgage extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr L says we 
should ask for recordings or transcripts of his and Mr Ms calls with Halifax. I dont think its 
necessary to do this to reach a fair outcome. Im satisfied the evidence Ive received is 
sufficient for me to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr M contacted Halifax in 2021. He said hed intended to repay the mortgage by either 
downsizing or using his pension, but his plans were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He 
said he needed to take care to avoid the virus which made it more difficult to view properties 
or have people view his property. And his pension was invested in the stock markets which 
have seen significant volatility. 
Mr L contacted Halifax on behalf of Mr M in late 2021. He said Mr M was able to repay the 
mortgage but would prefer his funds to remain invested while he continued to work. Mr L 
contacted Halifax again in early 2022 to discuss a term extension. 
Halifax accepts it made errors.
First, when Mr L spoke to Halifax in January 2022, it said an extension would be affordable 
on a repayment basis over nine years if Mr M reduced the loan by £7,500. While this was 
correct at the time, Mr M was about to have a birthday. This meant Halifax could only lend 
over eight years (which would take the loan term up to Mr Ms maximum age). The shorter 
term meant Mr M would have to make higher monthly payments. 
Second, when Mr M spoke with a mortgage adviser in early March 2022, Halifax made an 
error which meant it incorrectly assessed the mortgage as affordable without a further 
reduction in the balance. It made a recommendation and issued a mortgage illustration on 
this basis. 
Halifax made Mr M aware of its error about a week later, in mid-March 2022. Mr M was told 
he needed to reduce the balance by another £5,000 to continue with the application and the 
interest rate product he wanted. 
Mr L says there were problems with Halifaxs systems which meant Mr M missed out on the 
deal he wanted. Ive read the notes of Mr Ms call with the mortgage adviser in early March 
2022. These refer to her sending him an upload link and digital acceptance. She said hed 
need to read and accept the documents, and once hed done this to call for an update on his 
application. This is consistent with the screen shot Mr L sent. Mr M was unable to use the 
upload link. But this didnt make any difference to the outcome here. Halifax didnt issue a 
mortgage offer to Mr M  Halifax realised it had made an error before his application got to 
that stage. 
Mr L made a complaint. Halifax issued a final response letter in late March 2022 saying Mr M 
would have to reduce the balance of the mortgage by another £5,000 to continue with the 
application. It also said as interest rates increased this would make it more difficult to meet 
affordability stress tests. Mr M met the stress tests  subject to the further capital repayment 
 in late March 2022. However, Mr M didnt make the additional payment to reduce the 
balance so he could continue with the application and the interest rate product he wanted.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to offer Mr M a mortgage without a 
further capital reduction, and at the rates available in March 2022. This is for the following 
reasons.
Theres no evidence that Halifax offered Mr M a mortgage on this basis. While Halifax 
issued a mortgage illustration, thats not an offer to lend. 
Halifax is entitled to carry out checks before offering to lend, to ensure a mortgage is 
affordable. I appreciate that Mr L believes Halifax should have assessed Mr Ms income 
differently. But, like all lenders, Halifax has, and is entitled to apply, lending criteria about 
what types of income it accepts for an affordability assessment. Halifax gave Mr M correct information  that hed need to reduce the capital balance 
further  in mid-March 2022. Mr M had the opportunity to make the additional payment 
and secure the interest rate he wanted. 
Mr L has said there were tax implications for Mr M in making an additional payment. He 
hasnt said Mr M was unable to make the payment. 
Mr L says its absurd for Halifax to say that Mr M cant afford a term extension when he can 
repay the mortgage. I should say here that Halifax wasnt obliged to offer a term extension to 
Mr M. When Mr M took out the mortgage he agreed to repay it by the end of the term, and it 
seems he was able to do so. It suited Mr M to extend the term and Halifax told Mr M the 
basis on which it would agree to this. It was for Mr M to decide how to proceed. 
Mr M should contact Halifax if he wants to proceed with a term extension. Its likely he will 
need to start a new application, on the basis of the interest rate products now available. 
Halifax will be entitled to ask him for updated information and to apply its current lending 
criteria and affordability tests.
Putting things right
Mr M arranged for a payment of £7,500 to reduce the mortgage balance. It must have been 
disappointing to be told shortly after this that he needed to make another payment of £5,000 
to continue with the application. I think its right that Halifax agreed to pay a further £150 
compensation for Mr Ms upset.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay £150 to Mr M (in 
addition to the £150 its already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman