DRN-3291711
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc have dealt with a claim he made under his 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has a dog, who Ill refer to as P. In July 2020 P suffered an injury to the cruciate 
ligament on its left hind leg. Mr M made a claim to Allianz to cover the cost of the 
treatment P needed.
In December 2020, P presented with lameness in its right hind leg. Again, treatment was 
needed for a cruciate ligament injury, so Mr M made a further claim to Allianz. In this 
instance however Allianz didnt provide cover for the full cost of the treatment. It said that 
as the injuries were linked, most likely by an underlying condition, they would be treated as 
one. Allianz said it had paid up to the maximum benefit limit under the policy of £3,000. 
Mr M was unhappy about this and complained as it meant he still had a significant vets bill 
to pay.
Allianz considered the complaint but didnt change its position. So, Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think it was fair to treat the injuries as one. They happened at different times and Ps 
treating vet hadnt identified any underlying condition in July 2020 when they performed X-
rays on P. So, she said that Allianz should treat the injury in December 2020 as a separate 
claim and settle it accordingly.
Allianz disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said its 
terms and conditions are clear that where an animal has two injuries that are the same, 
they will be treated as one. And, the policy will only provide cover for 12 months of 
treatment or up to the maximum benefit limit of the policy.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 December 2021, in it I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons: 
 Ive first looked at what the policy terms say. In this instance; under Veterinary Fees the 
policy says:
What we will pay
The cost of veterinary treatment your pet has received during the policy year to treat injury 
and illness.
There is a further section of the policy which sets out the conditions under which treatment 
will be paid.
1. The way we work out the 12 month time limit and the maximum benefit ..
For injuries
1. The 12 months cover and the maximum benefit start from the date the injury 
happened. If your pet has more than one injury, if
They are diagnosed as the same injury, or
They are caused by, or relate to, one another,
One period of 12 months and one maximum benefit applies for all of the injuries. In this 
case the 12 months of cover and the maximum benefit starts from the date the first injury 
happened..
Its long been held approach by this service that where injuries to animals arent linked by 
an underlying cause, it isnt fair to treat them as one injury/condition. In this instance the 
treating vet x-rayed Ps legs and hips in July 2020 and noted both the right hind leg and 
hips to be within normal limits. While Allianz has pointed to research which suggests 
cruciate ligament injuries are nearly always caused by cruciate disease. In this instance, 
Im more persuaded by the treating vet who saw, assessed and treated P. So, while taking 
a strict interpretation of the policy terms would mean Mr M has been paid the correct 
amount, I dont think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of these claims.
Ive also considered the information that was made available to Mr M when he took the 
policy out. The Insurance Product Information Disclosure document (IPID) explains that for 
each (my emphasis) illness and injury, a 12-month period of treatment and monetary limit 
is provided. There is no similarly prominent description in the What is not insured or the 
Are there any restrictions on cover sections which explains these limits can be restricted 
in the way described above where an animal has two injuries of the same diagnosis. I think 
this a significant restriction on cover and something that should be brought to a policy 
holders attention. So, irrespective of the conclusion I have drawn above, for this reason I 
also dont think it is fair or reasonable for Allianz to limit the claim payment to Mr M in the 
way it has.
Having reviewed everything, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Allianz to treat
Mr Ms second claim as a new claim. It should pay Mr Ms claim less any applicable excess 
and amounts previously paid. If applicable, it can apply a new 12-month treatment or 
maximum benefit limit of £3,000. Any amounts paid to Mr M should include interest at 8% 
simple per annum, from the date it initially made payment to Mr M to the date it makes the 
settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr M responded saying he accepted my provisional decision.
Allianz said that it didnt accept my provisional decision. It said the vet that responded and 
provided opinion was not the treating vet but another at the practice. It provided further 
veterinary commentary which, in brief, made the following points:
The cruciate ligaments were ruptured within 12 months of each other with minimal 
trauma. The dog was undertaking normal activities. 
The cruciate ligament in dogs deteriorates over time, it ruptures when the 
ligament is weak. 
These cruciate instances should be seen as end-stage rupture as a result of an 
illness. 
There has been a lot of research into cruciate disease and in its experience where 
cruciate disease is present the second cruciate will rupture within 12 months of 
the first. P had all of the risk factors associated with cruciate disease and therefore it is 
natural to conclude they were suffering with cruciate disease rather than suffering 
two separate injuries. This is an accepted reality of veterinary practice in the UK.
Allianz also provided the opinion of a veterinary expert which mentioned the following:
They reviewed the x-rays taken in July 2020 and confirm they do not show 
Degenerative Joint Disease
There was no significant traumatic event reported which caused the breakdown of 
the ligaments.
The degenerative disease process slowly weakens the ligament to a point is 
suddenly breaks down under mild stress. 
P fits the statistics that 20-40% of dogs with degenerative breakdown of the 
ligament go on to have bilateral disease, however it should be noted that Ps 
breed is not one that is listed as being prone to Degenerative Joint Disease. 
In conclusion, they report, the fact there was cruciate breakdown without 
significant trauma indicates a degenerative disease process. While the x-rays do 
not show widespread joint involvement, this does not mean degenerative joint 
disease isnt present, simply it has not yet progressed to osteoarthritis. The 
disease process links the two illness events to the same underlying cause. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main thrust of Allianzs arguments turns on whether the cruciate ruptures should be 
treated as an injury or an illness. Its point is that they occur as a result of degeneration of the 
ligaments and therefore break under minimal stress. So they break as an end-result of 
illness/disease. I take from this Allianz is implying that under the disease section of the 
policy, the claims have been treated correctly as the maximum benefit limit starts from the 
first point the clinical signs were noticed. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, my first port of call when looking at claims is the 
policy documents, as these are what set out the cover a policyholder can expect. 
In this policy the definition of an injury is Physical damage or trauma caused immediately by 
an accident. Not any physical damage that happens over a period of time. 
Taking Allianzs arguments into account, it could be argued that the physical damage to the 
ligaments occurred over time as they naturally became weaker  so in this instance Ps 
ruptures wouldnt be classed as injuries. However, there is no specific evidence of the 
weakening of the ligaments in relation to P. The X-rays also do not show any abnormalities 
in the bones.
However, it can also be said here the trauma to the ligament(s), its rupture happened 
immediately. Accident is not defined in the policy document so I have looked at its everyday 
meaning, which can be said to be - a sudden event which is not planned or intended and 
that caused damage or injury.  So, I think based on the policy definitions the rupture of the 
cruciate ligament can reasonably be treated as an injury as it occurred immediately as a 
result of an accident. I also note the evidence the veterinary expert pointed to also makes 
the point that ruptures can happen as a result of landing (i.e. catching a ball) and can also occur in unfit dogs  - so it cant be said they only happen as a result of disease.
Overall, having considered everything, Im satisfied that based on the policy terms, ruptures 
can fit the definition of injury or illness under the policy. 
Even if I was persuaded by Allianzs arguments here about how cruciate ruptures can be 
caused by an illness/disease, Id still have to take into account the specific circumstances 
that happened and how Ps cruciate ligaments became ruptured. The first rupture happened 
as a result of P chasing a ball. So, I would be inclined to say here, based on what I have 
explained above, the first rupture could reasonably be classed as an injury. And I say this, as 
I am mindful there seems to be no evidence specifically relating to P that suggests 
weakened ligaments or an underlying illness/disease. 
However, if I then accept, based on what Allianz have presented, that the first cruciate 
rupture provides a suggestion of a weakness in Ps ligaments (but the first rupture due to its 
circumstance is attributable to an injury), there could be scope to say the second rupture 
may have happened as a result of an illness. However, there is still no specific evidence of 
this. 
Overall, having considered everything, I still dont think Allianz have provided persuasive 
evidence that specifically links to P and points to the fact both cruciate ruptures should be 
treated as happening as a result of an illness/disease or the same underlying linked cause.  
So, my decision that it should pay the claims separately remains the same. 
My thoughts around how the Insurance Product Information Disclosure document (IPID) is 
worded remains relevant. I dont think the potential restriction on claims payment was 
sufficiently drawn to Mr Ms attention  the wording explains that for each (my emphasis) 
illness and injury a 12-month period of treatment and monetary limit is provided. And there is 
no similarly prominent explanation about how those claim payments could be limited.  
Putting things right
To put things right Allianz should:
Treat Mr Ms second claim as a new claim. It should pay Mr Ms claim less any applicable 
excess and amounts previously paid. If applicable, it can apply a new 12-month treatment or 
maximum benefit limit of £3,000. Any amounts paid to Mr M should include interest at 8% 
simple per annum, from the date it initially made payment to Mr M to the date it makes the 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. I direct it to 
put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman