DRN-3499658
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment from his account for £2,552.52 
without notifying him.
What happened
On 5 August 2021 Santander blocked a transaction from Mr Ks current account. It made two 
attempts to call him but did not manage to speak to him. The block was removed on 10 
August 2021 after Mr K had spoken to the bank and confirmed the payment was valid.
Mr K is unhappy the bank did not inform him about the blocked transaction  he had 
sufficient funds in his account to cover it and he feels it should have made more effort to 
contact him. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said, in summary, the bank had acted 
in line with the terms of Mr Ks account which allow it not to accept a payment instruction for 
a number of reasons. And it had tried to call him twice about this.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr K asked for an ombudsmans review. He said a system 
that relies on the customer contacting the bank and that sends no other notification is not 
reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander was entitled to place a temporary block on the payment based on the terms 
(clause 6.6) of Mr Ks account. As it has explained to him in this instance the payment was 
flagged by its system for additional security checks. So I dont find any failing in its action to 
place the block.
I have some sympathy with Mr K that the bank did not manage to contact him. But equally I 
can see there were two call attempts, and the bank argues this satisfies its obligations under 
the last part of clause 6.6. I think, on balance, it is reasonable and practical for the bank to 
argue that that there will be instances where it is unable to make contact with a customer 
and by placing the block this triggers the customer to call the bank  so the issue can be 
discussed and the block removed as it was here. It has however agreed to make a payment 
of £25 as a goodwill gesture. I find this to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Santander UK Plc should now credit Mr Ks account 
with the £25 goodwill payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman