DRN-2163601
The complaint
T (through its director Ms D) complains that the card terminal provided to it by 
Paymentsense Limited (PSL) wasnt correctly recording sales.  As a result, its lost about 
£6,500.
What happened
T was set up in 2018.  It got a card terminal from PSL in December that year so it could take 
card payments from customers.  T had a shop.  But it also took orders over the telephone.
In early 2019, Ts director, Ms D, noticed that the amount of sales recorded on the till and the 
card terminal didnt tally.  The missing receipts were all for orders that had been taken over 
the telephone. She contacted PSL.  PSL told her she needed to contact Ts EPOS provider 
and bank, which Ms D did.
But the issue wasnt sorted out, so Ms D contacted PSL again a couple of months later.  PSL 
spoke to the bank, which told them that Ts contract didnt allow it to take Cardholder not 
present (CNP) payments.  They thought this was why the payments hadnt been processed.  
So PSL completed the application to change this.
About six weeks later, T raised concerns with PSL again.  PSL asked Ms D to forward 
copies of CNP receipts.  At this point, Ms D complained.  She wanted T to be reimbursed for 
the payments it hadnt received.
PSL looked at Ts complaint.  And they asked again for copies of receipts, which Ms D 
provided a couple of weeks later.  When PSLs complaints handler got the receipts, she 
asked Ms D to explain how shed processed CNP payments.  From Ms Ds description, she 
identified that the payments werent going through, because Ms D wasnt processing them 
correctly.
PSL rejected Ts complaint because of the error Ms D had made.  They sent her instructions 
on how to process future payments.  And they suggested that she might be able to 
reprocess the payments which hadnt gone through using other records.  Ms D replied, 
saying that no-one had told her how to deal with telephone orders during the months shed 
been raising issues with them.  But PSL said they hadnt been able to identify the problem 
until Ms D had sent them receipts.
Because Ms D wasnt satisfied with PSLs response, she brought Ts complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered the evidence and formed the view that PSL could have asked 
questions much earlier about how Ms D was processing payments.  And, if theyd done this, 
the issue could have been sorted out quicker.  She thought PSL should compensate T for 
this. But she said they werent responsible for the payments it had lost, because Ms D hadnt 
been using the payment terminal correctly.
PSL didnt accept they should pay compensation.  But they made a counter-offer to write off 
fees T owed them for the terminal.  Ms D rejected the counter-offer and is still seeking 
reimbursement of the lost payments. 
I considered this complaint.  I didnt agree with our investigator that it should be upheld  so I 
made a provisional decision.  I explained Id seen that Ms D contacted PSL on three 
occasions.  And PSL had tried to help her each time.  I didnt think it was reasonable to say 
they should have asked for receipts earlier  as opposed to looking at other solutions.  And I 
didnt see any evidence that Ms D had asked for guidance which she wasnt given.  So I 
provisionally decided PSL didnt need to do anything more to resolve Ts complaint.
PSL acknowledged my provisional decision, but made no further comments.  Ms D replied 
on behalf of T.  She said she thought Ts losses wouldve been less if PSL had 
communicated with her earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive not been persuaded to alter my provisional decision.  So Im not 
upholding Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
As I said in my provisional decision, each time Ms D contacted PSL they did take some 
action to try and help resolve the issue T was having.  In light of Ms Ds comments about 
earlier communication, Ive looked again at what they did.  
The first time Ms D contacted PSL, PSL suggested she contact Ts bank and its EPOS 
provider.  So its true that they didnt do anything themselves to resolve the issue T had.  But 
Ive seen PSLs notes from the first time Ms D contacted them.  Ive seen that the staff at 
PSL thought this was an EPOS issue.  So I think it was reasonable for them to suggest to 
Ms D she contact her EPOS provider.  
And Ive seen that PSL did contact Ts bank.  The bank made some suggestions about how 
Ms D could check the position, which PSL passed onto her.  And Ive seen that PSL followed 
the matter up the next day, leaving a voicemail with T to check the problem had been 
resolved.  
Im satisfied from this that PSL did take steps to address the problems T had when they 
became aware of them.  
Im sorry that T has lost money as a result of the problems Ms D had in processing 
transactions.  But  as I said in my provisional decision  I cant say that any one solution 
was more likely than the others to sort things out.  So I cant say that PSL shouldve done 
anything differently.  And I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve Ts 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ts complaint about Paymentsense 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman