DRN-4029379
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited issued a default notice on her credit card 
account and passed the account onto a third party. 
What happened
In mid-2021, Mrs C agreed a payment plan on her credit card with Vanquis and paid the 
required amount for six-months. Mrs Cs financial position worsened, and Vanquis issued a 
default notice in May 2022 and the default was registered in June.
Mrs C complained to Vanquis that she wasnt aware the arrangement she entered into only 
lasted six-months and says that she didnt receive correspondence from Vanquis telling her 
of the default notice. Mrs C said she told Vanquis that she wanted to cancel the card and 
that her parents could help her with an arrangement to pay off the debt. Vanquis didnt 
uphold the complaint and explained Mrs C had entered into a six-month arrangement and 
that it had reminded Mrs C the arrangement was coming to an end. Vanquis says it had sent 
several additional letters to Mrs C which included a default notice in May, and as Mrs C 
wasnt reasonably in a position to set-up a new arrangement it recorded the default with the 
credit references agencies. Vanquis says it then closed the account and sold it to a third 
party in August.
Mrs C brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought Vanquis hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong when it registered the default with the credit reference agencies. Mrs C 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that Vanquis shouldnt have registered a default on the 
account as she never defaulted on the payments. I have great deal of empathy with Mrs C 
and acknowledge that she has faced some difficult times over the last few years, yet she 
managed to keep up with the arrangement she initially agreed with Vanquis. So, I 
understand Mrs C will be disappointed that Ive not upheld this complaint and, but I will now 
explain why and address some of the relevant comments Ive received from Mrs C.
It's not disputed that Mrs C entered into an arrangement with Vanquis in 2021, nor that 
during this time she kept up with the arrangement. The agreement included a reduction in 
the interest rate applied to the account during this period. Mrs C says she was unaware the 
arrangement was temporary and feels that Vanquis should have agreed a longer period. 
Case notes provided by Vanquis record the arrangement was for six-months and that it 
wrote to Mrs C in September to confirm the arrangement. Regardless of this, Vanquis wrote 
to Mrs C in February 2022 to remind her the arrangement had ended and continued to send 
statements for her credit card account. Mrs C says she didnt receive this reminder, but Im 
satisfied that it was more likely than not sent by Vanquis to the reminder and the card 
statements to the address it held for Mrs C at the time. Ive also noted that shortly after this 
letter had been sent out and Vanquis recorded that Mrs C had called it and indicated she 
would struggle to meet the new repayments, as the interest rate had increased. So, I think 
its likely Mrs C was aware the arrangement had ended at this time. 
Mrs C feels Vanquis should have agreed a longer arrangement than the six-months it did. I 
cant tell Vanquis what period it should have agreed at the time, but it seems to me that the 
agreement for a six-month period wasnt unreasonable and demonstrates Vanquis took into 
account Mrs Cs circumstances at the time and were sympathetic to them. 
After Vanquis reminded Mrs C that the agreement was ending, it issued further letters in 
April and May - the latter being a default notice. These were also issued to the address 
Vanquis held for Mrs C at the time. The April letters told Mrs C that shed missed two 
payments on her account and that if Mrs C didnt agree a new suitable arrangement within 
14 days, a default notice would be issued. As no agreement was reached Vanquis issued a 
default notice on 13 May which informed Mrs C that if she failed to pay the arrears, or reach 
a suitable agreement, the default would be notified to the credit reference agencies and her 
account may be transferred to a third party. 
Theres no dispute Vanquis and Mrs C couldnt reach a suitable agreement in May, nor that 
Mrs C was able to clear the arrears on the account. Mrs C feels that Vanquis shouldve 
accepted a payment from her, but Vanquis felt it couldnt do this as Mrs Cs current 
outgoings significantly exceeded her income. I dont think it was unreasonable that Vanquis 
made this decision in view of the circumstances at the time. 
Ultimately, as Vanquis didnt receive a payment to clear the arrears and were unable to enter 
into a reasonable agreement with Mrs C for payment by 10 June, it notified the credit 
reference agencies of the default. I dont think Vanquis did anything significantly wrong here 
and as Vanquis has a responsibility to provide accurate information to the credit reference 
information, I wont be asking it to remove the information it provided. The information 
provided accurately records Mrs Cs account was more than three-months in arrears. 
Vanquis had provided Mrs C with the opportunity to clear the arrears and provided details of 
outside agencies who she could contact for help.
Mrs C later offered to clear the arrears with the help of family, but unfortunately this wouldnt 
have changed the default being registered in June. Mrs C believes Vanquis shouldnt have 
sold her account to a third party, but this is what Vanquis told Mrs C it would do in May if she 
didnt pay off the arrears or reach an agreement. So, I dont think Vanquis did anything 
wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint against 
Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman