DRN-3820848
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about how Esure Insurance Limited (T/A Sheilas Wheels) handled
and settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage.
Mrs and Mr S are represented by their daughter in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill
refer to all submissions as being made by Mrs and Mr S directly.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 October 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to partially uphold Mrs and Mr S 
complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr S hold a household insurance policy with Sheilas Wheels. They say, between
20 and 21 February 2022, storm conditions caused damage to a rear garden perimeter brick
wall. Mrs and Mr S said this wall had been erected around 100 years ago and maintained by
them for the last 40 years.
On 26 February 2022, Mrs and Mr S contacted Sheilas Wheels to make a claim under their
policy for storm damage. Sheilas Wheels asked Mrs and Mr S to provide photographs of
their wall together with any quotes showing the cost of repair.
On 4 March, Mrs and Mr S submitted information about their claim online, which included
photographs of their damaged wall together with an estimate from a local builder. On
receiving this information, Sheilas Wheels appointed a loss adjuster to attend Mrs and Mr S
property and assist it in dealing with the claim. Ill refer to this agent as S.
S visited Mrs and Mr S property on 21 April 2022. Prior to this date, thered been two
appointments arranged to undertake an inspection of the perimeter wall, which were
cancelled at short notice. Mrs and Mr S say this caused delay in how their claim was
progressed.
After S inspected Mrs and Mr S property it submitted a report to Sheilas Wheels which
stated the damage had been caused gradually due to a lack of maintenance and
degradation of the wall by nearby trees and vegetation undermining its structural stability. 
Based on S report Sheilas Wheels declined Mrs and Mr S claim. It said the cause of the 
damage was excluded by their policy.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy with how Sheilas Wheels proposed to resolve their claim. They
said their wall had been maintained over the years and wouldnt have suffered damage but
for the storm. So, they complained that Sheilas Wheels wouldnt meet their claim and they
said theyd experienced delays and poor service in how their claim had been progressed.
Sheilas Wheels investigated Mrs and Mr S concerns. But it maintained its stance that the
damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by their policy. It therefore
didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim and it didnt think thered
been unavoidable delay caused.
Being dissatisfied with how Sheilas Wheels had dealt with their complaint Mrs and Mr S
referred it to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt
recommend upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded the damage to Mrs and Mr S
perimeter wall was consistent with a one-off identifiable storm event. And they thought
Sheilas Wheels had dealt with Mrs and Mr S complaint fairly and done nothing wrong in
declining their claim. But Mrs and Mr S disagreed and asked for their complaint to be
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs and Mr S have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed
submissions. I recognise that they feel very strongly that their claim should be met and I
want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I
dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I
consider is key to the complaint  namely whether Sheilas Wheels acted reasonably in
handling and determining this claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint because they were persuaded
there was cogent evidence to support the repudiation decision. I dont disagree with that for
the reasons Ill set out below. But I think Mrs and Mr S could have experienced better
service at times and I think their experience merits an award of compensation. Im therefore
drafting a provision decision to give Sheilas Wheels and Mrs and Mr S the opportunity to
provide any representations they wish me to consider before a final decision is issued.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr S rear garden perimeter brick wall.
However, theres disagreement between them, Sheilas Wheels and its appointed agents
about the cause of the damage and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mrs and Mr S would like Sheilas Wheels to cover the cost of repairing the damage their
garden wall sustained because they feel it was caused by adverse weather. They believe
this should be covered under their policy of insurance. Their policy with Sheilas Wheels
provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are
specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, the
onus rests on Mrs and Mr S to show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one
of the perils listed in their policy.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs and Mr S complaint and all the evidence with these three questions
in mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr S policy defines the word storm
as a violent gale force 10 on the Beaufort scale reaching wind speeds of 55 mph or above
and/or 25 mm or more of rainfall in any 24 hour period. according to our weather data.
So, Ive thought about this definition when deciding whether there were storm conditions on
or around the date of Mrs and Mr S claim.
Mrs and Mr S have pointed to a storm that occurred between 20 and 21 February 2022.
They think this was the date damage was caused to their perimeter wall. The weather
reports relevant to Mrs and Mr S locality show that, at around the time the damage
occurred, the highest wind speeds recorded were 83 mph. As this meets the policy definition
of a storm, Im persuaded that storm conditions existed at around the date of the damage. It
follows that I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with
damage a storm typically causes. Like our investigator, Im satisfied that damage to a
perimeter brick wall is something that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to
answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in
this instance.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Sheilas Wheels instructed S to provide an
opinion on the cause of damage. I can see that Mrs and Mr S are unhappy with this decision,
but S is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of
insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for Sheilas Wheels to use S expertise in assessing a
claim for damage to a perimeter wall.
Mrs and Mr S disagree with S opinion on the cause of damage. Theyve questioned the
thoroughness of S inspection - raising concerns that the assessor was at their property for
under an hour and relied on photographs of the wall that theyd provided without taking any
of their own. However, having seen the photographs Mrs and Mr S provided to S, I can
understand why it didnt feel it needed to take additional photographs of the wall during its
visit. It wasnt unreasonable for S to assess Mrs and Mr S claim based on the information
and images of the wall theyd provided and its own opinion on the cause of the damage it
observed having visited their property.
S report is very detailed and typical in length and content to the reports our service sees
from other assessors employed by it. Within the report S comprehensively explains how it
thinks the damage occurred. It observed trees and dense vegetation along the length of the
perimeter wall, which can be seen in the photographs of the wall that Mrs and Mr S provided.
These will have compromised the structural integrity of the wall and caused it to destabilise.
S also stated there was evidence of historic repairs carried out to the pointing and thought
vegetation and age-related wear and tear of the wall had caused its condition to degrade. S
observed wooden fence panels mounted on top of brick wall. It thought the fence had acted
as a sail in the high winds pulling the wall down. I think this all offers a plausible explanation
as to why the wall sustained damage on the date in question.
Based on the report Ive seen, Im satisfied S assessor undertook an appropriate and
adequate inspection of Mrs and Mr S wall. Im persuaded it had sufficient information on
which to determine the cause of damage here. And, impartially, I think the photographs Mrs
and Mr S supplied show the wall is in a poor condition with a mortar missing between bricks.
The images support S findings that theres age-related deterioration and vegetation, which
have all caused the condition of the wall to decline. This is something that happens graduallybecause walls are built to withstand adverse weather.
I can see that Sheilas Wheels invited Mrs and Mr S to submit a report from another surveyor
confirming the cause of damage. As they havent done so I havent seen any evidence that
negates or discredits S view on the cause of damage. It follows that I cant say Sheilas
Wheels had any cause to revisit its stance on this claim.
As Im persuaded that the damage, most likely, occurred due to the pre-existing condition of
the wall I cant fairly conclude that the storm was the dominant cause of damage. This
means that damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as required by Mrs and Mr S
policy. I think its most likely that the adverse weather they experienced in February 2022
highlighted the pre-existing condition of their wall and caused it to worsen.
Mrs and Mr S policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by wear and tear, a
lack of maintenance or damage thats happened gradually is specifically excluded under the
policy. These exclusions here are in common with most home insurance policies because
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring
maintenance isnt unforeseen.
As Sheilas Wheels has shown that the damage that occurred isnt covered under the terms
and conditions of Mrs and Mr S insurance policy, I dont think its decision about his claim
was unfair and unreasonable. And this means I cant ask it to approve this claim.
Finally, Mrs and Mr S told our service they experienced avoidable delay in S attending their
property and in finding out why Sheilas Wheels had repudiated their claim. They believe that
the cancellation of two appointments hindered the progression of their claim.
Im persuaded that S initial appointment was arranged in a timely manner. I say this
because S was instructed by Sheilas Wheels on 7 March, which was at the earliest
opportunity after it received images of the damage and a quote for the cost of repair. S
contacted Mrs and Mr S on the date of its instruction explaining it was involved in their claim
and would contact them to arrange an appointment.
I can see S offered Mrs and Mr S an appointment with S on 29 March. But, as this date
wasnt suitable to Mrs and Mr S, the appointment was rearranged to 7 April. This wasnt
unreasonable  particularly as S was instructed at a time when there was a succession of
storms and adverse weather across the UK, which would have impacted on the availability of
its assessors.
Im satisfied, overall, that S acted as soon as it could in contacting Mrs and Mr S following its
instruction and in offering the initially appointments it did. So, I dont think there were
avoidable delays in the claims process during in the early stages of Mrs and Mr S claim.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, there was considerable confusion on 7 April 2022 as to
whether the appointment was going ahead. I say this because S contacted Mrs and Mr S to
cancel the appointment before then advising that it would proceed as initially arranged. I can
imagine the frustration Mrs and Mrs S must have felt when S failed to attend that day.
S then arranged to attend Mrs and Mr S property a week later. But this appointment didnt
proceed either as S cancelled it the day before. This prompted Mrs and Mr S to contact
Sheilas Wheels to express concerns. However, it wasnt until 20 April, around 6 weeks
following S instruction, that Mrs and Mr S were provided with another appointment, which
took place the following day.
The reasons for the two cancelled appointments are unclear. There was little notice givenprior to the appointments being cancelled. And this is bound to have caused unnecessary
upset and inconvenience to Mrs and Mr S who were anxious to progress their claim. Theyd
promptly appointed a local builder to quote for the repairs to their wall. Its clear to me that
they wanted to progress their claim as speedily as they could. Had an earlier visit by S taken
place, I think Mrs and Mr S trouble and upset could have been minimised.
I think the progression of Mrs and Mr S claim was delayed from 7 April to 21 April. Had the
initial appointment taken place, their wall would have been inspected sooner and a report
would have been prepared on the cause of damage earlier. I think this caused an avoidable
delay of just over 2 weeks and contributed to Mrs and Mr S experiencing poor service.
I also think Mrs and Mr S experienced poor service when their claim was repudiated. I say
this because I think that a timelier explanation of why their claim had been repudiated could
have been provided by Sheilas Wheels.
On 27 April, Mrs and Mr S were informed that Sheilas Wheels didnt feel that the storm was
the main issue in your wall falling down, just that its highlighted ongoing issues. I think this
explanation was vague and its clear from Mrs and Mr S response that they were confused
about the cause of damage.
A full explanation for the repudiation decision wasnt provided to Mrs and Mr S until 9 May.
By this point theyd had to discuss their complaint with several members of staff in different
departments. As S report had been available since 23 April, this explanation could have
been provided sooner and in a more streamlined manner.
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given the poor service Mrs and Mr
S experienced here.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Sheilas Wheels
to apologise for the poor service Mrs and Mr S received and pay a reasonable amount of
compensation for the trouble and upset they were caused. In the overall circumstances of
this complaint, Im satisfied £200 is a reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact
this all had. Its consistent with our approach in similar scenarios and I havent seen enough
evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here.
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this
complaint in part  based on the service issues Mrs and Mr S experienced. And Im
intending to direct Sheilas Wheels to pay them £200 to recognise the trouble and upset they
were caused.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or 
comments they wished to make before I draft my final decision, which is our services last 
word on this complaint. 
Sheilas Wheels responded to confirm it had nothing to add or provide by way of further 
evidence. But it did state it didnt think it was fair that Id considered the service issues as 
part of the provisional decision because it said these concerns hadnt formed part of the 
original complaint. 
When our investigator explained that our service had an inquisitorial remit, which enabled us 
to look concerns about service, Sheilas Wheels stated it was aware of that and thought my 
provisional findings about the service Mrs and Mr S had received were consistent with 
previous cases. Sheilas Wheels agreed there had been a delay and confirmed it would 
record a complaint uphold as a change in outcome on its records.When Mrs and Mr S responded, they argued that their wall had sustained damage due to a 
storm. 
Mrs and Mr S disputed my provisional findings that the wooden fence panels had been 
mounted on top of brick wall and, as such, had acted as a sail in the high winds pulling the 
wall down. They said this was factually incorrect and was due to the substandard inspection 
of the wall carried out by the S, which had incorrectly assumed that the fence was attached, 
or mounted to the damaged wall. 
Mrs and Mr S said the fence was freestanding, supported by its own posts and was not 
mounted on the top of the wall. They referred to previously provided photograph of the fence 
and wanted me to acknowledge that there had been an error in assessing the wooden fence 
insofar as it whether it is connected to the brick wall.
Mrs and Mr S also disagreed that S was suitably qualified to provide a cause of damage 
opinion. They said S was untrustworthy and that its report should be disregarded given the 
dispute as to whether the wooden fence was attached to the brick wall. They felt S report 
should not be taken at face value.
Mrs and Mr S stated they hadnt been financially able to engage a surveyor of their own to 
negate or discredits S opinion on the cause of damage. But they said the dispute between 
whether the fence was attached to the brick wall negated S view as it demonstrated it had 
incorrectly assessed the wall and cause of damage.
Mrs and Mr S didnt think I had fully assessed the poor service theyd received from Sheilas 
Wheels and the impact this had had on them. They said the delay between the notification of 
damage and S assessment was not only poor customer service, but also impacted the
trustworthiness off the assessment and subsequent report. 
They also said that, by the time S visited their property, much of the damaged wall had been 
lying on the ground for nearly 2 months and, in those circumstances, an assessment of the 
wall was bound to be flawed and unrepresentative of the pre-existing condition of the wall 
when the damage occurred.
Finally, Mrs and Mr S stated that, in addition to the compensation Id recommended to 
resolve this complaint for the poor service theyd received, they thought it would be fair for a 
partial settlement of the claim to be directed on the basis of the delay in S assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mrs and Mr S and Sheilas 
Wheels that, in considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened 
here. Having taken that approach, Im satisfied my decision is fair to all parties  as it should 
be.
Sheilas Wheels has accepted my provisional decision. But it said it felt it was unfair that Id 
considered the service issues Mrs and Mr S had complained about as part of this complaint. 
So, Ill address this comment first.
Our investigator was correct to explain that our service has an inquisitorial remit. So, Im 
satisfied it was appropriate to look at the service concerns Mrs and Mr S raised. As this wasnt something our investigator had considered I drafted a provisional decision to allow 
both Sheilas Wheels and Mrs and Mr S the opportunity of sharing their thoughts about the 
service concerns raised. Thats in line with our services approach in such matters.
Im pleased to see that Sheilas Wheels agrees theres been delay in how this claim was 
progressed and managed and feels my provisional findings about the service Mrs and Mr S 
received are consistent with previous cases. 
Ive taken on board all the comments Mrs and Mr S made in response to my provisional 
decision  and Ive reconsidered all the evidence our service received. 
Mrs and Mr S have provided extensive comments on my provisional decision. But these 
comments had already been known to our investigator and I was also aware of Mrs and Mr 
S views. They havent provided further evidence to our service, so I havent really seen 
anything new.
Mrs and Mr S still dont believe that S undertook a proper inspection or was suitably qualified 
to provide a cause of damage opinion. But I disagree. Assessing storm damage claims is 
typical work undertaken by S. So, Im persuaded its sufficiently qualified to provide an 
opinion on the cause of damage here. Ive seen nothing that suggests S report is 
untrustworthy or that its unsafe to rely on it. 
Its clear Mrs and Mr S believe the delay in S attending their property caused them prejudice 
and detrimentally impacted the assessment of their wall. I can see our investigator has 
already explained to Mrs and Mr S that they didnt think delay meant S couldnt fairly assess 
the wall and establish the reason for its collapse. They say this is because the wall had 
always been exposed to the elements and S was able to look at parts of the undamaged wall 
that was still standing  not just the damaged parts. I dont disagree with our investigators 
view about this and I also think S saw enough of the wall to undertake its inspection.
Mrs and Mr S stated they hadnt been financially able to engage a surveyor of their own to 
negate or discredits S opinion on the cause of damage. But they also said the dispute 
between whether the wooden fence was attached to the brick wall negates S view. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mrs and Mr S but I dont agree.
Ive reconsidered the photographs our service received and can see the wooden fence is 
supported by a long wooden pole, which appears to be resting against and touching the 
brick wall. In this sense the fence is connected to the brick wall and the images Ive seen 
support S opinion on the way in which the wooden fence has compromised the stability of 
the brick wall in adverse weather. 
I remain persuaded that, in such circumstances, its plausible that the wooden fence panels 
have acted as a sail in the high winds pulling the brick wall down. I think thats what, most 
likely, happened here. I still dont think the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. 
So, Im satisfied Sheilas Wheels acted fairly in repudiating this claim based on S opinion.
Mrs and Mr S have raised concerns about my assessment of the impact poor service had on 
them. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me there were additional examples of poor 
service that werent mentioned in my provisional decision and Ive already addressed the 
reasons why Im satisfied S opinion on the cause of damage is reliable. 
Mrs and Mr S havent provided any evidence demonstrating that a higher compensation 
award is warranted. So, in the circumstances I remain persuaded that my provisional award 
of £200 compensation appropriately recognises the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr S are 
bound to have experienced given the service they received.Mrs and Mr S believe it would be fair for a partial settlement of the claim to be directed 
based on the delay in S assessment. But Ive explained why Im not persuaded that delay 
prejudiced the assessment of their wall and I remain satisfied that S was correct in 
concluding that the predominant cause of damage was not due to a storm. I therefore cant 
fairly direct Sheilas Wheels to meet this claim  either partially or fully.
Im grateful to Mrs and Mr S for their comments, but I remain persuaded that Sheilas 
Wheels decision to repudiate this claim was reached reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of their policy. I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Sheilas Wheels should pay Mrs and Mr S £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of poor 
service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Esure Insurance Limited (T/A Sheilas 
Wheels) should pay Mrs and Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience they experienced 
as a result of poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman