DRN-2333255
The complaint
Mr T complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS), lent to him irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded, and any negative information on his credit file removed.
What happened
In January 2018 TFS approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr T, which was scheduled to be repaid 
at approximately £104 per month over a term of 24 months. The loan was intended to fund 
some home improvements. When assessing the application, TFS took steps to verify Mr Ts 
income; completed an income and expenditure assessment (I&E); and carried out a credit 
check before approving the lending.
It seems that Mr T encountered some difficulties in repaying the loan, but that it was 
ultimately repaid and closed in July 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
TFS is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr T 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr T needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay TFS for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
Did TFS carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
TFS asked Mr T fairly detailed questions about his income and expenditure; reviewed 
copies of recent pay slips; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan 
application. Given the term, and some of the flags that were very evident around Mr Ts 
recent financial history (including a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against him in October 
2017, and ongoing mortgage arrears), there is an argument to say that TFS checks should 
have gone further in order to be proportionate. Whilst Mr T offered it an explanation for the 
recent problems, and said that his outgoings had since reduced, the overall picture 
presented in the credit check TFS carried out ought to have thrown that explanation into 
some doubt.
There is also an argument to say that, based on the information it had, TFS ought to have 
declined Mr Ts application. But, at the very least, the flags set out above and the extent of 
his overdraft debt ought to have led TFS to carry out further checks.
Did TFS respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether to provide 
this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr T, I cannot see how TFS concluded that this loan would 
be sustainable for him, bearing in mind the regulations in force. I have also had the benefit 
of a more detailed credit check than that obtained by TFS, which Ive considered when 
reaching my conclusions.
Firstly, there is some uncertainty as to what was a fair approximation of Mr Ts net monthly 
income at the time. He appears to have initially declared £2,200, but when the loan was 
underwritten, using pay slips showing his year to date income, TFS worked on the basis 
that it was actually about £3,270. This factored in overtime and possibly a bonus, which of 
course werent guaranteed. But taking into account the year to date information on Mr Ts 
payslips, I dont think it was an unreasonable amount to work to.
In any event, I dont think this case turns on this discrepancy, given what was clear to TFS 
from its credit check. Crucially, it could see that Mr T had two current accounts, both at 
their maximum overdraft limit, and that, combined, the overdrafts amounted to £4,605  far 
in excess of even the higher monthly income amount under consideration.
TFS argues that:
A customer using their overdraft is also not a reason to decline a loan 
application...
which I entirely accept. However, based on what it saw, TFS was not in a position to 
conclude that Mr T wasnt entirely reliant on borrowing to exist. There were clear signs of 
recent financial difficulties, and his combined overdraft far exceeded his monthly income. 
The more detailed credit check Ive seen shows that Mr T was consistently at (or even 
over) the overdraft limit on both of his accounts, so the snapshot TFS saw at the time 
wasnt an anomaly. The evidence is clear, that in January 2018 Mr T was having to borrow 
on an ongoing basis, and had been in that position for a long time. Despite that substantial 
borrowing, he was unable to meet priority bills such as contractual mortgage repayments. 
This is not the behaviour of someone who has control of their finances, and demonstrates 
a perilous reliance on credit.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr T, TFS must do the following:
A) TFS must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loan. 
B) If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. C) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman