DRN-3183398
The complaint
Mrs O complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs O was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS. Mrs O voluntary terminated the agreement and the car was inspected and collected.
Following this, MBFS asked Mrs O to pay damage charges. Mrs O disputed the charges and 
complained to MBFS. In response, MBFS said the charges had been raised correctly.
Mrs O remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the charges but said they had been applied correctly.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said she want disputing that there was damage, but said the 
charges didnt reflect the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs O must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. Looking at the damage identified, 
Im satisfied that it exceeds acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the relevant 
guidelines. So, I think the charges have been applied correctly.
Mrs O has said that she doesnt dispute the existence of the damage, but she doesnt think 
the charges fairly reflect the damage. In relation to the tyre, shes said that she could have 
had this replaced at cheaper cost than that charged by MBFS. In relation to the bumper, Mrs 
O says that she could have had this repaired for less and that MBFSs prices are unrealistic. 
In relation to the alloy wheels, Mrs O has said that its unfair to expect her to pay for these to 
be repaired to showroom condition because they werent in this condition when the car was 
supplied.
I understand that Mrs O thinks she couldve had the damage repaired at less cost. I can see 
that MBFS provided Mrs O with a copy of the vehicle returns standards at the beginning of 
the agreement, so I think she was aware of the wear and tear expectations when the car 
was returned. I also think that because of this, Mrs O had the opportunity to arrange for any 
repairs to be carried out at a garage of her choice before the car was returned.
In relation to the charges themselves, this service isnt able to make findings about the 
reasonableness of these, only about whether they have been correctly applied. Im unable to 
make an assessment of whether the cost of repairs is fair. What I can say is that MBFS has 
provided a damage price matrix, which is also available online, which shows the charges for 
different types of damage. MBFS says that its prices are checked against industry 
standards. I dont doubt that Mrs O could have obtained a repair at less cost somewhere 
else, but this doesnt mean that MBFSs charges are excessive or unfair. And as Ive already 
said, Mrs O had the opportunity to arrange repairs before returning the car.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that the charges have been applied 
correctly. I wont be asking MBFD to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman