The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its 
associated plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance 
company responsible for their actions.
Mr B had British Gas cover including for plumbing and drainage. 
In 2019 he reported a smell from his downstairs toilet. British Gas made a couple of 
unproductive visits. Then  using a camera  British Gas found a small crack on the rest 
bend from the toilet. Mr B complained that British Gas declined to fix it and gave poor 
service.
On 6 June 2019 British Gas sent a final response letter declining to do a repair but enclosing 
a cheque for £50.00. In September 2019 Mr B brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that a 
repair wasnt covered by the policy. She thought that the service wasnt at the level wed 
expect but £50.00 was fair compensation.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The two British Gas workers only used the camera. It wouldnt see a hairline crack or
detect leaks. They said the crack needed fixing.
The crack is about 6 or 7 inches long and about 1/4 inch wide.
The signature on the checklist is not his.
Later, British Gas fraudulently reported the damage as a hairline crack.
British Gas is risking the structure of his familys house and their health.
Reducing the use of the toilet reduces the smell.
His family cannot use the toilet normally because sewage is leaking between the
toilet floor and foundations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1627562reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered repairing and unblocking drains to restore flow. It also covered repairing 
leaks to internal waste water pipes and external soil and vent pipes.
The policy didnt cover sanitary ware such as a toilet bowl or cistern. 
Mr B says that  on the camera display - he saw the crack. He says the workers were 
preparing to do a repair. He says the crack is leaking sewage. 
But  whether he signed it or not - the British Gas checklist has boxes ticked to indicate fault 
resolved, checked correct operation and  checked for water leaks. There is a box for 
suggested work but that box contains no suggested work.
Also, Mr B sent an email on 15 May 2019 including the following:
I do believe it is impossible to actually know if there is leakage 
So  notwithstanding a smell  I'm not satisfied of the existence of a leak. And I dont find 
that British Gas treated Mr B unfairly by declining to do any repair under the policy.
I accept that Mr B had to attend multiple appointments including one made by mistake for 11 
May 2019. He also spent time contacting British Gas. 
From what he says, British Gas fell below a reasonable level of service. That caused him 
extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. But Im satisfied that the 
British Gas offer of £50.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for this.
So overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint or to direct British Gas to 
do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman