The complaint
Ms D complains about SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limiteds (Kleinwort) fees following poor 
service. 
What happened
Ms D held a portfolio of investments with Kleinwort that were managed on a discretionary 
basis. After a review of her investments in February 2018, Ms D says Kleinworts standard of 
service fell considerably. She didnt consider its fees were justified for the period February 
2018 to May 2019 when she moved her investments elsewhere. 
Our investigator concluded Kleinworts service had fallen short of the standard Ms D 
couldve reasonably expected, in that it failed to review her finances following a significant 
change in her circumstances. The investigator wasnt persuaded Ms D had suffered financial 
loss as a result of Kleinworts poor service, but he said the business should pay £250 
compensation. 
The investigator found that Kleinwort had managed Ms Ds SIPP and ISA accounts in line 
with the agreed mandate. So he was satisfied fees had been charged in line with the client 
agreement and didnt recommend any refund. 
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said Kleinworts service levels fell 
significantly after she complained about a separate matter in October 2018. Ms D said shed 
previously received a high level, personalised service and had paid significantly for this. She 
didnt accept the compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Kleinwort said it accepted the investigators recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has told me the service shed received from Kleinwort over the years was high level 
and bespoke to her particular circumstances. She says the business actively managed her 
investments.
So I can understand why Ms D was disappointed when she felt Kleinwort wasnt more pro-
active following a change in her circumstances in May 2018. 
I accept that Kleinwort was aware of a significant drop in Ms Ds income in May 2018. But in 
the run up to that point, I can also see that Kleinwort offered on a number of occasions to 
DRN-1929071discuss the position with Ms D once her circumstances were clearer. In one of its emails to 
Ms D it said:
I hope all is well with you and that you have managed to get some news from [NAME]. [We] 
are available for a call should you wish to discuss whenever is convenient for you.
In addition, I note that in one of Ms Ds emails to the business she said:
if I am no longer going to be receiving a [NAME] dividend, I may want to actually increase 
my holding in income funds to generate income in a tax efficient way. I will action once the 
[NAME] stuff is tied up.
So even though Kleinwort may not have provided a formal review in response to Ms Ds 
changing circumstances, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that the bespoke 
service Ms D expected wasnt available to her. From what Ive seen and been told, it seems 
Ms D didnt pursue any further discussions with Kleinwort following the share sale in May 
2018.
Ms D considers Kleinworts service levels fell considerably once shed complained about a 
separate matter in October 2018. There isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that 
there was a direct link between her complaint and the perceived fall in service levels.
But I agree with the investigator that it wouldve been reasonable for Kleinwort to carry out a 
formal review of Ms Ds portfolio no later than the early part of 2019. Kleinwort also accepts 
this and has agreed to pay £250 as recommended by the investigator.
I appreciate why Ms D doesnt think this is enough, but for the reasons Ive explained I dont 
think I can reasonably ask Kleinwort to refund fees for what Ms D considers was a fall in 
service levels.
Kleinwort has provided a reasonable explanation for the trading activity on Ms Ds SIPP and 
ISA accounts, and I accept what it says. As such, Im satisfied that Kleinworts fees in 
connection with managing the accounts have been charged in line with its client agreement, 
and I wont be asking it to refund fees.
Im satisfied that the £250 recommended by the investigator is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint, and I wont be asking Kleinwort to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limited should pay £250 to Ms D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman