DRN-1071797
The complaint
Mrs J says Tesco Personal Finance mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this 
complaint. Mrs J disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form Mrs J saw and signed which included a 
section for PPI. In this section the box has been ticked to agree to the cover - but there is 
nothing here to indicate that this box had to be ticked. Mrs J says she wouldnt have ticked 
the box herself as she never takes out any additional products offered. But the evidence 
suggests - and both parties agree - that this was a postal application. So, its not likely a 
Tesco representative wouldve been present when the form was completed and there is no 
evidence that any of this form was pre-filled before it was sent to Mrs J. 
As mentioned above there is nothing in the PPI section to state that this policy had to be 
taken so Mrs J wouldve known she couldve left this section blank if she didnt want the PPI. 
So, based on the evidence available I think Tesco Personal Finance made it clear that Mrs J 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
if she cant remember this.
Tesco Personal Finance didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs J got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Mrs J says she wasnt given enough information about the policy. And I think its
possible the information Tesco Personal Finance gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been
useful for her if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the policy 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs J says the PPI was of no use to her because she had other policies in place to cover her 
if needed. However, for £0.70 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI
wouldve paid out up to 10% of Mrs Js outstanding monthly balance, until she returned
to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs J says she had other policies in 
place at the time, but these would not have covered her for the same things as PPI. And Mrs 
J told us she didnt have any savings, sick pay from her employer or any extra disposable 
income at the time. 
Mrs J also told us that in 2006 she took out Card Protection Plan on this card and had she 
have known about PPI she wouldnt have taken this. Its possible that at the time of taking 
out this additional policy Mrs J had forgotten she had taken out PPI, but again, Card 
Protection Plan is a different type of cover used in different circumstances - so having one of 
these policies didnt necessitate the need for the other. 
So overall, I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs J and I dont think better
information wouldve changed her decision to take out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman