DRN-2774120
The complaint
 Miss Z complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cannot locate the savings 
accounts she held as a child. Shes also unhappy, following a subject access request, that 
NatWest werent able to provide her with full details of other accounts showing in her name. 
She has concerns these were opened fraudulently.  
What happened
 In 2018, Miss Z approached NatWest to locate her child savings accounts, which were 
opened by her father. She says the advisor told her this information was greyed out and she 
should complete a subject access request (SAR) to gather more information. 
When Miss Z received her SAR documents there were no details of her child accounts but 
various other accounts she didnt recognise. Between 2018 and 2020, Miss Z made 
numerous calls and visits to NatWest in order to locate her accounts and raise concerns 
about the ones she believes were opened fraudulently. 
In 2020, this service contacted NatWest after Miss Zs told us about her complaint. They 
issued their final response letter explaining they werent able to locate the savings accounts 
Miss Z referred to. They said they only store data for six years and therefore the requested 
information was no longer available. Miss Z didnt agree, she said they were able to provide 
some information to her in 2018 as part of her SAR request so should be in a position to 
respond to her concerns. 
Our investigator looked into things and concluded NatWest had done nothing wrong. The 
investigator explained due to the lack of information and time thats passed he didnt think it 
was unreasonable that NatWest werent able to locate Miss Zs child savings accounts. He 
also said he was satisfied the other accounts were unlikely to have been opened 
fraudulently.   
Miss Z didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said she didnt understand why she 
was told there was no information on the accounts when NatWest had details they could 
have shared with her. She explained she is a vulnerable consumer and NatWests treatment 
of the matter has caused her significant distress. 
Our investigator looked into the additional concerns raised by Miss Z but didnt conclude 
NatWest had made an error.  Miss Z still didnt agree with the investigators opinion. 
Following this further investigation was carried out around how NatWest had dealt with Miss 
Zs requests for account information. NatWest agreed they could have provided a better 
service to Miss Z and offered £100 to put things right. Our investigator thought this was a fair 
offer in the circumstances. Miss Z didnt accept the compensation, she felt her concerns 
regarding her accounts remained unresolved. 
Because no agreement was reached, the complaint passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it in part  and conclude the offer made by NatWest 
was fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Child savings accounts
I understand why Miss Z is upset with NatWest saying they havent been able to find the 
accounts she held as a child, when she was previously told they could see them on their 
system but couldnt access the records. Ive listened to calls Miss Z had with NatWest 
between 2018 and 2020. And I havent seen anything to suggest they were able to locate 
these accounts during conversations with her or in their investigation. 
Miss Z was unable to provide any evidence of the accounts she had with NatWest or any 
account details. So, NatWest completed a search using the information she provided for 
herself and her father  name, address and date of birth. 
NatWest have sent us the screenshots of the searches they carried out in order to locate 
Miss Zs accounts. The searches show NatWest have attempted to locate her accounts 
using the information they were given. But despite this, they were still unable to locate the 
accounts on their system. 
I'm satisfied NatWest have carried out comprehensive searches of its records and havent
been able to find any details of the accounts she held with them. NatWest explained that 
they dont retain information for longer than they need to. And this isnt unusual or 
unreasonable. I also dont think its unreasonable that they havent been able to locate     
Miss Zs accounts from over 20 years ago. Without the account details or any documentation 
relating to the accounts, NatWest is limited in the searches they can complete. 
Due to the lack of information and passage of time, I cant safely conclude the accounts 
remained open with funds. I understand Miss Z believes they were sold without her consent, 
but I dont think theres anything to suggest this happened. I think on balance its more likely 
the accounts were closed, and the outstanding balance paid out. I appreciate Miss Z will 
disagree, but given the passage of time she may not recall this.   
Other accounts in Miss Zs name
NatWest havent accepted that the accounts raised as fraudulent by Miss Z were opened by 
someone else. Theyve said its unlikely Miss Z would have been a victim of identity theft 
over ten years and not have been prompted to contact them sooner.
Miss Z confirms she had a Cash ISA with NatWest (account ending in 2827), and the last 
account she recalls was account ending in 9017. However, she doesnt recognise the other 
accounts linked to her records  accounts ending in 6358, 1159 and 9751. I appreciate that 
due to Miss Zs vulnerability it would have been very distressing for her to find accounts in 
her name she doesnt recall applying for. 
Ive seen the application for account ending in 6358. It includes Miss Zs personal details - 
her address, date of birth, contact number, and the email address she was using at time.           
I think only Miss Z, or someone close to her would know this level of detail in order to apply 
for the account. I note the application was also signed. And having seen a copy of Miss Zs 
passport which includes her signature, I think its likely that this application was signed by 
Miss Z.NatWest havent been able to provide us with the original application for the savings account 
ending in 1159. But theyve provided us with the account statements showing the transaction 
history from when it opened in August 2011 to October 2014 when it closed. The history 
shows there were numerous incoming and outgoing transfers from account ending in 9017  
the account Miss Z says she remembers. I think its unlikely Miss Z would transfer money 
into this account if she had no knowledge of it. And I think its even more unlikely that an 
unknown third party would have done this. So when I weigh everything up, I think its more 
likely than not that Miss Z applied for this account.  
NatWest were unable to locate further information on account ending in 9751. I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for Miss Z, but as this account was closed in 2004, I dont think its 
unusual they dont hold this information. Therefore, there isnt enough evidence for me to 
say this account was opened by someone else. 
I also note theres no evidence to suggest Miss Z has suffered a financial loss or is being 
chased for debts she doesnt recognise. So, taking everything into account, I consider it 
more likely that the accounts were opened by Miss Z and werent applications made by 
someone else.
Customer service 
Miss Z raised concerns about the way NatWest has handled things when she notified them 
of her concerns. She states this affected her mental health. Theres no doubt Miss Z had 
concerns about her accounts and thought she was a victim of identity theft  she wouldnt 
have spent this much time trying to request information if this wasnt the case. Therefore, I 
must consider whether I think NatWest could have done more to assist her. 
Ive considered Miss Zs attempts to gather information from NatWest between 2018 and 
2020. And having listened to the calls she had with them, I think NatWest could have done 
more at the time. Miss Z made numerous calls raising the same issues and as a result of the 
agents failure to take ownership of this, her concerns remained unresolved. I also note she 
made requests for a final response in calls she had with NatWest. If they had treated her 
concerns as a complaint sooner, the matter wouldnt have dragged on for as long as it has. 
When NatWest responded to Miss Zs complaint in 2020, they failed to adequately answer 
her queries. They told her they couldnt locate any accounts due to the time thats passed, 
which contradicted the information provided in her SAR request that detailed multiple 
accounts she had with them. Its also clear from the information provided to us, NatWest had 
further details on the accounts mentioned in the SAR they could have shared with her. And 
had they done this, they could have alleviated Miss Zs concerns about her data. 
NatWest have accepted they didnt provide the level of service Miss Z could expect. Theyve 
recognised the distress caused to Miss Z by their actions and have agreed to pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience their service caused her given the 
circumstances she was in.
Putting things right
 National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Miss Z a total of £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused 
 
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold Miss Zs complaint in part and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay the compensation described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman