DRN-3616655
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt 
refunded an amout he paid on his AESEL credit card for a holiday booking.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr L booked to rent a property for him, his wife and daughter to stay for 
around a week. The booking was provided by a company I shall refer to as T. The rental cost 
£600, which he paid for using his AESEL credit card. However, shortly before the trip was to 
take place, local restrictions owing to Covid-19 meant that people from different houses were 
unable to mix. Mr Ls daughter lived in a different household, so he said this meant they 
were unable to attend. He cancelled the booking with T and asked for a refund. But T said 
he wasnt entitled to one. 
Mr L then contacted AESEL to raise a dispute over the transaction and he says he asked to 
raise a chargeback. However, he says AESEL told him that hed be better raising a claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). So he withdrew the 
chargeback claim. However, AESEL later said he wasnt eligible to raise a Section 75 claim. 
Mr L asked to raise the chargeback claim again, but AESEL said he was now too late to 
raise it. Mr L then referred his concerns to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought AESEL should have raised a 
chargeback at the outset given the limited time frame Mr L had to raise a chargeback. He 
also thought AESEL was wrong to say Mr L wasnt eligible to raise a Section 75 claim. 
However, the investigator didnt think Mr L had lost out because of what AESEL did wrong 
because he didnt think T had breached the terms of the contract.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator as he maintained he should have received a refund 
given he couldnt use the holiday rental in the way hed intended as a result of Covid-19. As 
Mr L didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ls complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr L has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way AESEL has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think about. 
I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. I assure Mr L, however, that I have read and considered everything hes provided.
Mr L is complaining about the way AESEL handled a dispute over a payment he made to a 
third party for a holiday rental. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made 
on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback 
and Section 75. I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Ill consider both 
avenues separately.
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by AESEL.
In this instance Mr L cancelled the booking because he says he and his family couldnt use 
the property in the way they intended. I recognise Mr L felt he was left with no choice, but the 
grounds for a chargeback are limited. In this case, hed have to show that, either the service 
wasnt provided or he wasnt given a refund that he was due. 
I appreciate Mr L didnt want to travel, given his daughter wasnt able to stay as well due to 
Covid restrictions. But, it needs to be remembered that the booking was for the villa alone  
i.e. he was renting the property, not purchasing separate accommodation for him, his wife 
and daughter. I do not dispute that it was his intention for the three of them to stay there. But 
the key issue is whether the service T was contracted to provide was available and it was 
available to use, but Mr L was unwilling to use it due local restrictions. So, Im not persuaded 
that a chargeback would have been successful given Im satisfied the service was available 
to Mr L and I dont think there was anything to show he was entitled to a refund after he 
cancelled the contract.
Section 75
Mr L paid for the rental on his AESEL credit card. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, 
as the finance provider, AESEL is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  T.
AESEL doesnt think it is liable under S75 because it thinks Mr L made the payment through 
a third party payment processor. But I dont agree and Im satisfied those circumstances 
apply here. However, I dont think I need to make a finding on this because Im not 
persuaded theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation for the same reasons I set 
out above.
Ultimately, Mr L entered into a contract with T to rent a property. The contract doesnt specify 
that its for Mr L, his wife and his daughter to stay. It was for Mr L to decide how he wished to 
use the property  subject to the relevant terms of the contract  and who would stay  i.e. it 
wasnt part of the contract with T that Mr Ls daughter would stay.
As I said, I appreciate Mr L wasnt able to use the property in the way he intended. But this 
wasnt down to anything T did wrong. T has made the property available and fulfilled its 
responsibilities under the contract and the contract specified that it wasnt required to issue a 
refund in the event Mr L chooses to cancel the contract. I recognise Mr L felt he was unable 
to travel due to no fault of his own. But I havent seen anything to show that T had breached 
the terms of the contract or misrepresented what it would provide. So I dont think AESEL is 
required to refund what he paid. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.  
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman