DRN-3690816
The complaint
Miss W says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Simply Be, 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on her accounts be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to 
Miss W. The first account, with account number ending 1828, was opened in February 
2014. The two later accounts were opened in November 2021. The account with account 
number ending 7951 had an initial credit limit of £300 that was increased to £400 a month 
later The account with account number ending 5765 had opening credit of limit of £250 that 
didnt change. 
Miss W contacted J D Williams in March 2022, saying shes unhappy that J D Williams 
allowed her to open the accounts given her past credit history. 
Based on the information Miss W gave us about her financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think J D Williams had acted unfairly in granting each of these accounts 
and the credit limit increase that followed. 
As Miss W didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
J D Williams says it acted as a responsible lender when opening the accounts and granting 
her a credit limit increase. Our adjudicator has already set out in some detail why he didnt 
think J D Williams lent to Miss W irresponsibly. Having reviewed the complaint myself, 
including the account history, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator and so 
dont consider that Miss W lost out due to J D Williams actions in relation to her account. I 
will explain why. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williamss lending history with 
Miss W, so as to see if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ws credit 
limits.
When J D Williams granted Miss W the first account in 2014, I would have expected it to 
carry out a number of credit reference checks - although unfortunately these are no longer 
available. But taking into account the relatively  low opening credit limit of £125, from what I 
have seen I dont think it was unreasonable of J D Williams to provide this level of credit. 
However, I do consider it would have been prudent for J D Williams to at least ask Miss W to 
confirm her level of income and confirm her other financial commitments as well as day to 
day outgoings, given her credit history. 
When Miss W opened the two further accounts in November 2021, J D Williams was aware 
that, whilst shed had no recent arrears with other credit, she had a history of defaulting on 
credit, the most recent default around 16 months earlier. She also had three county court 
judgements registered against her name over the previous six years. Having reviewed the 
checks, and taking into account the relatively low opening credit limits she was given, I dont 
think theres enough to suggest it was unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved 
opening these two accounts. Ive seen that J D Williams didnt ask Miss W about her income 
or current financial commitments, which is something that may have helped it begin to build 
a better picture of her financial circumstances at that point. But as things stand I cant say 
whether having done so its likely it would have seen that Miss W would have difficulty 
making payments to these newly-opened accounts. 
I agree it would have been helpful for J D Williams to have found out more about Miss Ws 
financial situation before providing any additional credit, as it did for one account a month 
later when it increased the opening limit from £300 to £400. But from what Miss W has told 
us about her income at the time, including the bank statements she sent us, had it done so I 
think its likely it would have found that these accounts were affordable for her. Miss W was 
receiving a total monthly income of around £1,850. Miss Ws monthly outgoings, including 
necessities, appeared to be around £650 which suggests she had enough disposable 
income to manage these accounts. 
When responding to our adjudicators findings, Miss W said she also had council tax, utility 
and car costs that didnt show up on her bank statements. She also says she was 
transferring in money from other accounts to help pay her debts. I do recognise that bank 
statement information cannot always give a full financial picture, but even allowing for some 
additional outgoings to the extent that her outgoings would be doubled, it still appears that 
the accounts were likely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think the information we have about Miss Ws financial situation at the 
time is enough for me to find that, had J D Williams carried out additional proportionate 
checks a month after the account had been opened, it likely would have found a moderate 
credit limit increase to be unsustainable. I say this having carefully reviewed all the 
information Miss W has sent us about her financial situation. 
I therefore dont make any award as I dont think Miss W was caused any loss as a 
result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman