DRN-4112634
The complaint
Miss N, who is represented by a third party, complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) 
irresponsibly gave her a catalogue account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In April 2018, Miss N successfully applied for a credit account with Next. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £150. Three credit limit increases were later applied to the account: 
to £300 in June 2018, to £2,000 in January 2019 and finally to £3,750 in July 2018. 
Miss Ns use of the available credit reached £1,758 in February 2023.
Miss N complained to Next to say that the opening credit and subsequent credit limit 
increases were unaffordable for her. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint as she thought Miss N appeared to have 
been managing her account without getting into difficulty. 
As Miss N didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ns complaint is that Next granted her an account that was unaffordable for her from 
the outset.
Before providing credit, and also before it increased her credit limits, Next says it carried 
out credit checks to decide on the amount of credit it was able to offer. Miss N had 
confirmed her monthly income as being around £2,800-£2,900. Her bank statements from 
the time suggest she was receiving a variable income, but broadly in line with that figure. 
Going forwards, Next told us that Miss Ns account was assessed on a monthly basis from 
the credit check information and that credit limits were set using that information and also 
its observation of Miss Ns management of the account. 
Looking first at the account opening, its certainly possible that Nexts checks werent as 
thorough or sufficient as they might have been. I say this having noted that Miss N had 
several credit cards open at the time, but Ive seen they appeared to be managed well 
with no adverse markings on her credit file. 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think the 
relatively modest opening credit limit of £150 was unaffordable. I also think that the 
increase to her credit limit to £300 in June 2018, just two months later, wasnt unfair or 
unaffordable given that it was a relatively modest increase and there was no indication at 
that point that Miss N might be getting into difficulty with the account. 
Going forwards, Ive seen that Miss N managed her account well and didnt get into 
difficulties by way of missing payments and building up arrears. Whilst she made 
purchases on her account on most months, she continued to use a low proportion of her 
available credit. Ive seen that her use of credit elsewhere was increasing, but she didnt 
appear to be becoming over-reliant on credit and wasnt missing payments. Her monthly 
payments were always above the minimum required. So from looking at the way she was 
managing her account up to January 2023, I dont think I can say this necessarily shows 
that Miss N was experiencing significant financial difficulty. 
Miss N sent us bank statements to review that included the months in which she was 
granted the two later credit increases, first to £2,000 and then to £3,750. Ive noticed that 
Miss N was making regular use of her overdraft and incurring fees as a result. That does 
tend to suggest that Miss Ns overall financial situation was not as good as it should be 
and any disposable income she had was in the context of continuing reliance on her 
overdraft, which is not ideal. I therefore do think when granting the two later credit limit 
increases it would have been sensible for Next to carry out proportionate checks to make 
sure that Miss Ns financial situation was such that she could afford each increase. 
Reviewing her bank statements, as I have, would be one way to do this. But the question I 
have to ask is whether its likely that the statements demonstrate that Miss Ns financial 
situation was deteriorating, or was at the very least stretched to the point that there was a 
real risk that making full use of her increased balance would be likely to contribute to such 
a deterioration. 
Having looked carefully at all the available information, I dont consider that the credit limit 
increase to £2,000 in January 2019 was unfair or unreasonable. And turning to the 
increase to £3,750 in June 2019, I think the question of whether such an increase was 
unfair or unreasonable is something that is less relevant. I say that because financial 
redress is designed to put someone back in the position as if the failing had not happened. 
In this case Miss Ns account balance reached a level of around £1,000 in January 2022 
and then went on to reach £1,758 by February 2023. Miss Ns account usage once shed 
been granted the £2,000 credit limit suggests she was able to use the account without 
incurring monthly payments at a level that was unaffordable and kept them at a 
sustainable level. And even if I were to think the June 2019 credit limit increase to £3,750 
was unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay, given that Miss N has suffered 
no detriment as a result of the actions of Next. 
So, having considered all the available evidence and information, I cant say that Ive seen 
sufficient evidence for me to find that more thorough affordability checks would have led 
Next to think that the credit limits it provided to Miss N were unreasonable and 
unaffordable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss N was managing her account 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss N will be disappointed with my decision. But I would like to reassure her that 
I have looked into all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman