DRN-2906117
The complaint
Mr A complains that IG Markets Limited should never have allowed him to open a contracts 
for difference trading account.
What happened
Mr A opened a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with IG Markets Limited and 
was trading between December 2014 and July 2016. He lost a total of £86,000 in the period 
he was trading with IG and complained to them on 30 March 2020. I have summarised his 
key complaint points below:-
- IG allowed him to open a CFD account and trade when it wasnt appropriate for 
him as he had no previous experience of this type of trading and so IG shouldnt 
have permitted him to trade or to lose the money he did.
- Although IG are officially an execution only service, they gave him unsuitable 
trading advice to invest his savings in high risk CFD products which werent 
explained to him
- He says they contacted him many times to pressure him into trading and 
exploited him. He details dates and times of calls of specific occasions when this 
has happened.
- He says he expressed his anger and depression to IG several times but they said 
losing money was part of trading and if he was to persist he would see rewards in 
the future.
- He feels IG personnel are incentivised and rewarded for bringing more people to 
trade as they continued to contact him with trading recommendations after he 
had closed his account.
He says this caused him to suffer significant losses as well as impacting his health. To 
resolve his complaint, he would like all his losses refunded.
IG issued a final response letter to Mr A on 24 April 2020 saying an appropriateness 
assessment was done when his account was opened which he passed. They say he had 
previous trading experience and was well informed about the nature and risks of CFDs. They 
also say the answers he gave in the assessment showed he had experience of this type of 
trading and that they were entitled to rely on the information he had provided them. 
IG also say they offered an execution only service and denied giving Mr A any advice, as 
such the suitability of the products he chose to invest in was not considered by them. They 
rejected his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator noted a complaint to IG had already been made regarding advice given to 
Mr A and losses he incurred from January 2015. As the previous complaint had already 
been considered and resolved, she focused her investigations in this complaint on the initial 
account opening and any losses incurred up to January 2015. She considered the merits of 
this complaint and agreed with IG. She considered whether the account was appropriate for 
Mr A and whether the risks of this type of trading had been explained. She didnt think IG 
had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr A that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
this complaint and for the same reasons as the investigator. I will explain further.
Appropriateness of account
As a regulated firm, the rules by which IG must conduct their business are outlined in the 
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. COBS 10.2 
outlines the requirements that IG had to follow.
COBS 10.2.1 R 01/11/2007 
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client. 
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm: 
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded; 
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to those particular 
investment services or transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the 
client is classified as a professional client. 
COBS 10.2.2 R 01/11/2007 The information regarding a client's knowledge and 
experience in the investment field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of 
the client, the nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product 
or transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks involved, 
information on: 
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar; 
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out; 
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
IG had to gather relevant information to establish whether their client has the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service and product 
offered  to decide if it was appropriate for them. So, Ive look at what information he 
provided IG at account opening. Mr A applied to open his account in December 2014 where 
he completed his Know Your Client (KYC) document and provided IG with the information 
they needed to establish his financial situation, his knowledge and understanding of 
investments and his investment objectives.
Mr A confirmed he was employed as a doctor with savings and financial means to trade in 
CFDs. In terms of his investment experience, he does now raise that he didnt have the relevant knowledge to understand this type of trading as he says when he initially answered 
the questions it didnt allow him to register the account so he changed his responses 
following coaching from IG. I have not been provided with an unsuccessful application but I 
am aware of two successful applications being made to IG - one through a third party broker 
and another directly to IG. 
In the first application, he mentions not having sufficient investment experience but he 
decided to continue with the account opening and was not prevented from doing this. To be 
clear, there was no requirement that IG had to decline his application simply because he 
lacked the relevant experience. The rules require IG to give an enhanced warning about the 
risk and let Mr A decide for himself he if wished to proceed - this was sufficient to fulfil their 
regulatory obligations.
I considered whether the risks of CFDs and warnings had been given to him and I think IG 
did enough to warn Mr A of the risks involved in CFD trading. The KYC document gives clear 
risk warnings, they would have been given at the account opening stage and the numerous 
trading risk notices would be clearly visible. In addition to this, he agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the account which do highlight the high risk nature of CFD trading. I am 
satisfied that he was aware of the risk involved with CFD trading and using leverage where 
he was at risk of losing more than his initial deposit amount. 
Given that he would have been given the risk warnings, passed the appropriateness test at 
account opening and proceeded with the account suggests he understood the risks involved. 
With this in mind, it would be difficult for me to see why the account wouldnt be appropriate 
for him or that IG should have prevented him from opening the account so I dont think they 
needed to do anything differently.
Whilst I can see that there is a change in the answers provided to IG in the two applications, 
I dont have any evidence to confirm that IG specifically coached him to making the changes 
so I am unable to conclude they did something wrong. 
I have to make my decision based on the evidence I have and so I am looking at the 
questions Mr A was asked when he opened his account and the responses he gave to 
these. He was asked about his trading history over the last three years in his application. 
Possible response options were frequently, sometimes or never - his answers to the 
questions are noted in bold.
- How many times have you traded shares/bonds?  Sometimes 
- How many times have you traded Exchange Traded Derivatives?  Sometimes 
- How many times have you traded OTC Derivatives (CFDs/Spread Bets)  Sometimes 
- How have you mostly traded the above  Independently or with advice. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr A did have prior experience of this type of trading and 
this is the information that IG have relied on. COBS 10.2.4 confirms, IG are within their rights 
to rely on the information that has been provided to them when the account was opened. 
With this in mind, I am satisfied he had the required knowledge and experience to trade in 
derivatives.
Did IG give advice?
Mr A says they have given him advice on some of the positions he complains of, so I must 
consider whether advice was given and if so, was it suitable.IG say the account is an execution only account and so they do not offer advice on any of 
the trades Mr A choses. They say he alone made the decision to trade and so they shouldnt 
be held responsible for any losses hes incurred whilst trading on their platform. 
Mr A has provided a list of numerous calls which he says demonstrated that IG had given 
him advice. But I dont think these prove that IG gave him any advice, they simply show 
there were on-going communications between them. Whilst I do understand the point he 
makes, there is a difference between giving advice and the provision of information to enable 
him to make an informed choice. Overall, I havent seen anything that I consider would fall 
within the scope of advice, as such I dont consider the suitability of trading to be relevant 
here. 
Mr As concerns over exploitation by trading agencies and suggests trading qualifications 
should become mandatory. I understand the strength of feeling he has particularly with 
everything that he has been through but my role here is not to tell a business how it should 
operate, that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. If he continues to 
have concerns over the way IG operate, I would suggest he contacts the FCA to discuss this 
further. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses hes 
suffered and impact this has had on him. I have considered all the information thats been 
provided to me and havent seen anything that would suggest there has been a breach of 
the terms of the agreement or the COBS rules. It then follows that I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to hold IG responsible for the losses he has incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman