DRN-4034786
The complaint
Ms P complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling of her 
accident claim, under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2022 Ms P was driving on a motorway when another car collided with the rear 
drivers side of her car. She says her car was pushed into the hard shoulder and suffered 
damage to the rear quarter. Ms P says she exchanged details with the other driver and 
contacted AA to report the incident. 
Ms P says AA asked for photos of the damage and details of the collision, which she 
provided promptly. From here she says the standard of service provided by AA was poor. Ms 
P expected an adviser to be allocated to her claim within seven days, as per her policy 
details. This didnt happen. She says she had to renew her policy with AA as she had an 
ongoing open claim. 
Ms P says she contacted AA several times for an update on her claim. She says no help 
was provided, she was passed between departments and there was no response to an email 
she sent. Ms P says she was told at the end of September 2022 that her car was repairable. 
The car was collected on 10 October and a courtesy car was provided. 
At the end of October 2022 Ms P was told the courtesy car would be taken back. It was 
explained that her car was due to be scrapped and the courtesy car was needed for another 
customer. Ms P says this information was provided by the garage not AA and was the first 
shed heard about her car being scrapped. This caused inconvenience as Ms P had no car 
to use the day the courtesy car was taken back, which meant she had to change her plans. 
Ms P complained to AA. She says she then received formal notification that her car was to 
be scrapped. She says an offer of £8,000 was made in settlement of her claim. Ms P says 
she told AA about the upgraded options her car has. This included a leather interior, a high 
specification sound system, panoramic roof, and powder coated alloy wheels. She says her 
car was in excellent condition. But she received no response to these points. 
Ms P says she expected her car to be returned to her and was shocked when she 
discovered it had been written off. This caused inconvenience as she had to find another car 
with limited funds and no notice. 
In her complaint Ms P says the photos of the damage clearly show how the collision 
occurred. She also says the other driver was wearing inappropriate footwear and is at fault 
for the collision. Ms P is unhappy that she had to provide photos twice as these had been 
misplaced by AA. 
In its complaint response AA accepts it took too long to determine Ms Ps car was a total 
loss. It explained the process it followed to allocate an engineer to assess the damage. The 
engineers report was then assessed, and the total loss decision was made on 17 October 
2022. AA acknowledges there was a delay in confirming this to Ms P, which didnt happen 
for a further two weeks.    
AA says it used the industry trade guides to establish the market value for Ms Ps car. It then 
settled her claim for this amount in line with its policy terms. It says its in dispute with the 
third-party over liability for the accident and it will provide regular updates. AA acknowledges 
delays in its claim handling and paid Ms P £150 compensation. 
Ms P didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He thought AA had acted fairly when treating Ms Ps 
car as a total loss and offering a settlement payment using the industry trade guides. He 
didnt think Ms P had shown that AA had behaved unfairly when dealing with the liability 
aspect of her claim. He says the standard of communication couldve been better, but that 
AAs compensation payment was reasonable to acknowledge this point. 
Ms P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.  
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
AA has supplied its claim records, which I have read in detail. This supports Ms Ps 
testimony that she made numerous calls, without receiving substantive explanations as to 
why the process was taking so long. I can see a letter that was sent advising Ms P of the 
total loss decision. But it was the garage that first notified Ms P about this. I think Ms Ps 
point is reasonable that she expected AA to keep her informed of what was happening. Prior 
to this she was told her car was repairable. I can understand that she thought AA should 
have been first to let her know that it intended scrapping her car. 
Ms P refers to her policy details that say a claims adviser would be allocated within seven 
days of registering her claim. I can see from her later correspondence with our investigator 
that it was clarified that this information is set out on AAs website. This says:
Your AA Accident Assist claim advisor will contact you in a week to discuss how your claim 
is progressing, and see if we can be of any assistance.
From the evidence provided Ms P wasnt contacted within this time frame to discuss her 
claim. Rather the onus was on her to make contact to find out what was happening. I dont 
think this was fair on Ms P, which caused frustration and some inconvenience. I think its 
reasonable that AA compensates Ms P for this. 
AAs engineer determined Ms Ps car was an economic total loss and confirmed it would be 
written off. In this scenario the policy terms say AA will pay for the loss of the insured car and 
that, The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value. 
The policy defines market value as, The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the 
same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss. I cant see that the policy terms define how AA will establish the market value in these 
circumstances. However, AA refers to following the approach our service considers 
reasonable.  
We dont provide valuations for cars, but we will look to see whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find 
these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. 
We take all other available evidence into account as well, for example, engineers reports
AAs settlement offer fell within the range of the two valuations it obtained. I can see that it 
used the correct loss date, mileage, make, model, and age for Ms Ps car. Our investigator 
obtained valuations from two further trade guides. Again, I can see the correct details were 
used when obtaining these valuations. This includes the additional features Ms P described. 
AA offered a settlement payment of £8,137. I can see that this is in line with the valuations 
obtained. 
The policy terms say that in the event AA settles the claim, the damaged car will become its 
property. I understand Ms P was shocked that the car wasnt returned to her. However, she 
did accept the offer, albeit she was in dispute as to the quantum of the settlement payment 
provided. But I cant see that Ms P asked to retain the salvage of her car. This would require 
a reduction in the settlement figure offered, to account for the salvage value AA would have 
forgone. So, although I accept communication around this point couldve been better. I dont 
think AA acted unfairly here.   
Based on this Im satisfied AA behaved reasonably and according to its policy terms when 
offering its settlement payment.  
I can see from the records provided that Ms P sent photos of her damaged car around the 
time she registered her claim. I understand her frustration and concern that she later had to 
provide this information again, as it couldnt be found. I acknowledge what she says about 
the impact this could have with respect to AA defending her position that she wasnt at fault 
for the collision. 
Ive thought carefully about this point. Liability for the accident has yet to be determined as 
the third-party has also disputed being at fault. In these circumstances where corroborating 
evidence is limited, a liability dispute can take some time to resolve. I can understand that 
Ms P is concerned that her photos and information had to be supplied twice. But as liability 
has yet to be decided, this hasnt had a negative impact other than the inconvenience and 
frustration it caused. 
In its complaint response AA says it will provide updates to Ms P regarding the liability 
decision. It should ensure that it does so.
I note Ms Ps reference to allowing her policy with AA to renew as she had an open claim. I 
cant see that this issue was raised with the business in her complaint. So, I cant consider it 
here. If Ms Ps wants to complain about this issue, shell need to contact AA and allow it to 
provide a response. She can of course refer to our service if she remains dissatisfied after a 
response has been provided.
I can see that Ms P was provided with a courtesy car whilst her car was at the garage. So, 
she wasnt without transport until her car was determined to be a total loss. I understand this 
meant finding another car at short notice. But unfortunately, I cant see how this could be 
avoided. AAs engineer determined the car was a total loss  at this point the claim was settled. This decision couldve been communicated more quickly. But Ms P had use of the 
courtesy car until this decision was confirmed to her. 
In summary I dont think this claim was handled well in relation to the standard of 
communication and some delays that occurred. But I think AAs payment of £150 reasonably 
acknowledges this. AA settled the claim fairly according to its policy terms and its continuing 
to dispute liability with the third-party driver, which I think is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it 
to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman