DRN-3745947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a third charge mortgage they were advised to take in 
2019 by Bright Star Financial Limited (BSF). They believe that they should not have been 
sold the loan because it wasnt affordable; they had a significant amount of unsecured debt; 
and the money was to be used for non-essential building works. The complaint to BSF also 
included concern that they hadnt been told to consolidate their unsecured credit.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M received advice from BSF in January 2019. They wanted to borrow £25,000 to 
top up their savings so they could afford to complete a loft conversion. At the time they had 
existing interest-only borrowing against their property of £540,000. They wanted the new 
borrowing on a repayment basis.
BSF asked Mr and Mrs M about their incomes and outgoings. This included a discussion 
about Mr Ms commission earnings, and it was confirmed that much of the monthly amount 
was guaranteed because it was based on historic sales and would be ongoing. The cost of 
Mr and Mrs Ms unsecured debts were included in the assessment of their finances and BSF 
determined that they had a disposable income of over £2,600 each month. Mrs M said that 
they had historically not been very good with money, having moved from product, to product, 
to product. She then confirmed that despite this, theyd always maintained and paid 
everything. Plans for the longer term were also discussed - that once the loft was done, they 
would look at amalgamating the second and third charge borrowing. This included possibly 
changing it all to a repayment basis, as Mr and Mrs M were aware that they werent currently 
paying off the exiting mortgage debt and were getting older.
A repayment mortgage of £25,000 over a term of 15 years was recommended. The 
application was accepted by the lender.
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs M contacted BSF and complained that the mortgage it sold 
them was unaffordable. They told BSF that theyd only made five full monthly payments to 
the mortgage, and this had been made by borrowing money from elsewhere. 
BSF responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in a letter dated 15 March 2022. It initially 
highlighted that while it had given them the advice to take the mortgage, the ultimate 
decision for approving the mortgage was the lenders. BSF then went on to explain the 
advice process. It was satisfied that based on the information it had been given and 
obtained, that the mortgage was affordable. In relation to the red flags Mr and Mrs M 
highlighted about their circumstances, BSF didnt agree that they were matters that meant 
that the new mortgage was not advisable. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with BSFs response and referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he 
didnt recommend that it be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said they disagreed that previous payday loans and the 
fact that the mortgage was a third charge against their property didnt represent red flags 
that meant the mortgage shouldnt have been recommended. They also quoted comments 
made by the investigator who had considered the same complaint against the mortgage 
lender. They maintained that the mortgage had been unaffordable, and their financial 
circumstances should have made BSF conclude that it shouldnt recommend further 
borrowing.
In addition, Mr and Mrs M questioned the references our investigator had made to the 
complaint about the mortgage lender, as theyd been told that previous decisions did not set 
a precedent. They also said that the lack of affordability of the mortgage was evidenced by 
the fact that Mrs M took out a personal loan in March 2019. She also highlighted that a 
complaint about this loan being unaffordable had been upheld by this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially confirm that it is the role of a broker is to recommend a suitable financial 
product for a consumers needs, taking account of their circumstances. That process is very 
dependent on what that customer tells the broker and them being open about their 
circumstances. It would not be for a broker to tell a customer what they should borrow 
money to pay for. Although it would be for the broker to advise against borrowing if it was not 
affordable or unsuitable for other reasons.
So where a customer has unsecured debts that they dont want to consolidate, those debts 
are being adequately serviced, and the existence of the debts doesnt cause issues with the 
plans the broker is being asked for advice about, I wouldnt expect to see a broker 
recommending consolidation. Indeed, consolidating such debts can extend the period the 
debts are payable over and, therefore, increase the costs associated with them. Also, 
increasing the level of secured debt can have more significant consequences if financial 
difficulties are experienced down the line, in comparison with those if the debts are not 
secured. 
That said, BSF had a duty to make suitable recommendations, based on Mr and Mrs Ms 
requirements and circumstances. In relation to the affordability of the mortgage, it carried out 
an assessment of their income and expenditure, which showed that the mortgage was 
affordable. While Mr Ms commission was taken into account, the fact that it was received 
consistently and would be for at least the following two years, based on Mr and Mrs Ms 
explanations, would indicate that it was not an unreasonable decision. The information BSF 
was given indicated that there wouldnt be any issues with affordability if the new mortgage 
was taken. That said, it was ultimately the lenders decision whether to grant the mortgage 
and its assessment of affordability that was key, not that undertaken by BSF.
Mr and Mrs M have raised points about their circumstances that they think mean that BSF 
shouldnt have recommended the mortgage. These being that they had a significant amount 
of unsecured borrowing, already had a second charge loan and had historically taken 
payday loans. 
I would agree with Mr and Mrs M that before making a recommendation BSF should have 
taken account of their wider circumstances and financial history. However, the simple 
existence of a historic payday loan would not be sufficient to say that a consumer should not 
be recommended further borrowing. Indeed, as our investigator highlighted, the last payday 
loan had been taken in 2017, quite some time before the advice was given and I dont 
consider that it made the advice in 2019 inappropriate. As for the existing borrowing, both secured and unsecured, I am not persuaded that its 
existence should have automatically meant that further borrowing was inadvisable or 
unaffordable. The nature and timing of that borrowing needed to be considered. As 
Mr and Mrs M said to BSF, while they may not have chosen the best options in the past, 
they had always maintained their arrangements and no payments had been missed. There 
doesnt appear to be anything about the existing borrowing that would suggest the financial 
difficulties Mr and Mrs M have now said they were in. Indeed, if they were in such difficulties, 
they didnt mention it to the adviser. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I am not persuaded that the advice BSF 
gave them in 2019 was inappropriate, based on the information it had.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman