DRN-3778038
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the service she has received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under her HomeCare and appliance repair cover.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs M reported a fault to her fridge. A British Gas engineer attended but 
couldnt find the model details. As they couldnt repair the fridge British Gas offered a 30% 
contribution towards a new fridge. Mrs M didnt hear anything further from British Gas and in 
June 2019 replaced her fridge with an unbranded model and informed British Gas.
In June 2019 Mrs M reported a fault with her tumble dryer. An engineer attended and carried 
out repairs. Mrs M says that during two visits, sludge from the tumble dryer caused damage 
to her kitchen carpet. British Gas say that the damage to the carpet was consequential to the 
fault and that Mrs M should claim on her home insurance. Mrs M said that the engineer 
caused the damage during the repair.
Mrs M complained to British Gas about the service she had received. She also complained 
that British Gas would only pay a contribution to the cost of her new fridge. She says that 
she wasnt aware that she was only entitled to a 30% contribution. British Gas said that the 
30% contribution was part of the terms and conditions of the policy and offered to refund the 
cost of the kitchen appliance cover for 2018/19 as a gesture of goodwill. They said their 
engineer was not responsible for the damage to the carpet and that they had only been 
informed of the damage nine months later.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. She wants British Gas to repair the damage to 
her carpet and to replace her fridge with a branded product. She says that had she known 
she would only receive a contribution to any replacement product she would not have taken 
out the policy.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the policy was 
clear that only a 30% contribution was payable and that the refund of the 2018/19 policy 
premium was more than a 30% contribution. He thought this was fair. He didnt think there 
was any evidence that the engineer caused damage to the carpet.
Mrs M provided photos of her damaged carpet and asked for her complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. She further said that British Gas hadnt carried out an annual boiler 
service and would like a refund to reflect this. This was not part of Mrs Ms original complaint 
but British Gas have said they are happy for me to consider this. They say Mrs M has 
received a boiler service as per the terms and conditions of her policy.
My provisional decision
On 26 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Mis-selling
Insurance companies have a duty to make sure their customers are given clear information 
so that they can make an informed choice about whether the policy is right for them. The fact 
that a policy might have been mis-sold isnt enough on its own - we also consider if the 
customer wouldve done something differently, but for the mis-sale.
Mrs M bought her policy in 2009. British Gas have no records from before 2015, so Ive not 
seen any details of the original sale. Mrs M was able to provide a copy of her 2011 renewal 
letter but apart from this Ive only seen renewal documents from 2015. Ive seen terms and 
conditions dated August 2012 and June 2018.
Apart from the 2016 renewal letter which highlights the kitchen appliance cover and the 30% 
contribution, none of the letters specifically mentions the contribution. The letters do however 
refer to the terms and conditions which were enclosed. These are clear and say that if the 
appliance is beyond repair and is more than three years old, British Gas will pay 30% 
towards a new appliance of similar specification bought from one of their approved suppliers.
Whilst I dont have any information regarding the original sale, Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that British Gas made the details of the policy clear to Mrs M at each renewal. I 
therefore dont think that the policy was mis-sold. I also note that Mrs M has continued to 
renew her kitchen appliance cover since finding out about the 30% contribution and so I 
dont think she wouldve done anything differently even if the policy had been mis-sold.
Fridge repair
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy are clear as Ive explained above. British Gas 
said that they couldnt repair the fridge and so were going to offer Mrs M a 30% contribution 
towards a new fridge. I think this was a fair approach and within the terms of the policy  and 
I dont think it reasonable to now expect British Gas to replace Mrs Ms current fridge with a 
new one of the same make as her original. The policy is clear that Mrs M is only entitled to a 
30% contribution.
However, British Gas never offered a contribution  or any explanation for this until Mrs M 
complained in March 2020. They then offered £202.87 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
inconvenience caused. This reflected the cost of the 2018/19 premium. However, this 
doesnt appear to have been paid as a contribution as Ive not seen any calculation carried 
out at the time and so I think it fair for British Gas to now pay Mrs M the 30% contribution. 
I appreciate that it might now be difficult to calculate an exact contribution figure. However, 
Mrs M says that her fridge was a branded top of the range fridge and so I intend to ask 
British Gas to work out a fair contribution based on the information they have. Im aware that 
the policy doesnt provide for a cash alternative, but as Mrs M has already bought a new 
fridge whilst waiting for her contribution, I think that a cash payment would be fair.
I also think there was considerable delay in sorting out Mrs Ms claim. British Gas initially 
said that Mrs M had requested the contribution process be postponed due to her ill health, 
but they now accept that there was no evidence of this. Im satisfied that the delay wasnt 
Mrs Ms fault and I also cant see that Mrs M was updated regarding her claim. She says that 
she was told during a telephone call in December 2018 that British Gas would sort 
everything out and then heard nothing. This left Mrs M without a properly working fridge from 
November 2018 to June 2019 when she replaced it. British Gas suggest that the fridge was 
replaced in January 2019, but the fridge was removed from the policy in June 2019, so I 
think that its more likely that the fridge was purchased then as Mrs M says.
Mrs M says that she suffered serious ill health during this time and the issues with her fridge 
caused her additional worry and sleepless nights. Not only did she have to live without a 
properly functioning fridge, she also had to purchase a new one without any financial 
contribution. Im satisfied that this all added to Mrs Ms very difficult circumstances, of which British Gas were aware. Ive taken into account the goodwill payment already made and I 
intend to require British Gas to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Tumble dryer
I can see from Mrs Ms photos that there is black staining to her carpet. Mrs M says that she 
witnessed the engineer cause the staining and mentioned it to him. British Gas havent 
denied that there was damage but say there is no evidence it was caused by their engineer. 
However, British Gas havent offered any alternative explanation or said what precautions 
their engineer took to prevent damage during the repair. On balance, I think Mrs Ms account 
is more likely. If the damage was caused during the repair, its reasonable to expect British 
Gas to put it right.
British Gas say that they werent made aware of the damage until nine months after the 
engineer attended and that the damage couldve been caused by anyone during this time. 
Mrs M says the damage was caused by the engineer and not by anyone else  and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest otherwise. The engineer acts as agent for British Gas and I think it 
likely that he was aware of the carpet staining during his visits. I think it therefore fair for 
British Gas to replace the carpet or, if Mrs M would prefer, pay her the cost of replacement 
so that she can arrange this herself.
I think the damage to the carpet has caused Mrs M additional distress and inconvenience. 
She has had to live with a stained carpet in her kitchen since 2019 and this cant have been 
pleasant. This all happened when Mrs M was suffering from serious health problems and I 
think it fair for British Gas to pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Boiler annual service
Mrs M says she has missed one of her annual boiler services. British Gas say that Mrs Ms 
boiler was serviced every year. Ive looked through British Gas notes and can see that there 
was a service in November 2015 and the next one was not until January 2018.
Mrs Ms HomeCare 400 policy includes an annual service. Annual service is defined in the 
terms and conditions as a service within each agreement period. The policy says that the 
service should normally be carried out around 12 months from the previous service but that 
this can change in periods of high demand. Mrs Ms policy runs from 27 January each year 
so I think Mrs M missed a service in the 2016/17 agreement period and it would be fair for 
her to be compensated for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas didnt agree with my provisional decision although they accepted the award of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. They said that the £202.87 that they paid to 
Mrs M was an uplift of the 30% contribution which would have been £54  based on 30% of 
£180.
British Gas dispute that their engineer was negligent or that he caused any damage to Mrs 
Ms carpet. They say they were not notified straight away of the damage and that the 
damage could have been caused by anyone over the months until it was formally reported to 
them.  
In relation to the missed annual service in 2016/17, British Gas provided a screen shot of a 
repayment to Mrs M on 8 February 2017 for the missed annual service. Mr M commented that she had a separate fridge and freezer. Mrs M doesnt recall receiving 
any service refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Apart from the refund of the 2016/17 annual service, Ive not seen any new information from 
either party that causes me to change my decision.
The £202.87 that was paid to Mrs M was paid as a gesture of goodwill for the poor service 
she received  as detailed in British Gass letter to Mrs M. I dont think it reflects a 
contribution towards her new fridge, so I think it fair for British Gas to now make the 30% 
contribution payment. British Gas have calculated this as £54 which I think is fair, and this 
should be paid with interest from the date that Mrs M bought her new fridge.
Mrs M says that she bought a separate freezer as well as her fridge, but this complaint deals 
only with the fridge and so I am not making any award for the freezer. 
British Gas havent provided any new information in relation to the carpet. There is no 
evidence that the damage was caused by anyone else and so I think it more likely that it was 
caused during the repair and that British Gas should put this right. 
Although Mrs M doesnt recall the refund of the 2016/17 annual service, British Gas have 
provided a screenshot of the refund made to her - which I accept. I therefore wont be asking 
British Gas to make any further payments in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs M £54 representing the 30% contribution towards her fridge, plus interest at 
8% from the date she purchased her new fridge to the date the contribution is paid to 
her;
replace Mrs Ms damaged kitchen carpet, or if Mrs M would prefer, pay her the cost 
of replacing the carpet so that she can arrange this herself; and
pay Mrs M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman