DRN-4311850
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the overdraft facility on their Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) current account. They say Nationwide acted unfairly by increasing the credit 
limit up to £4,000 and then allowing its long-term use until they closed their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the overdraft added to their account November 2007, 
and the increases to its limit in February 2008, August 2008, October 2008, September 
2010, March 2011 and finally January 2012. They say that the overdraft was unaffordable for 
them and that it led to them hardcore borrowing over several years.
Nationwide said we couldnt look at whether it acted unfairly because Mr and Mrs W
complained too late. One of our ombudsmen looked at everything provided and agreed that 
much of the complaint was made too late, including the decision in 2007 agreeing to the 
overdraft and all the limit increases between February 2008 and January 2012. But he was 
satisfied we could look at the ongoing affordability of the overdraft from June 2016 onwards, 
which is within six-years of Mr and Mrs W having made their complaint to Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs Ws overdraft was revoked in 2018. When Nationwide revoked Mr and
Mrs Ws overdraft it sent them a letter stating that it was doing so because it was a
responsible lender and it could only offer them an arranged overdraft if it believed it wasnt
going to cause them money problems down the line.
Nationwide considered Mr and Mrs Ws account activity between June 2016 and February 
2020, when the overdraft was repaid and account closed. It thought the credits to the 
account were sufficient to support repayment of the overdraft facility. It had noted some 
returned direct debit payments but when it considered these in the context of the overall 
account activity, noting significant non-essential spending, it didnt think the returned 
payments suggested Mr and Mrs W couldve been in financial difficulties. It also thought that 
Mr and Mrs W repaying between £500 and £1,000 a month after the overdraft had been 
revoked to clear the balance was another sign that they were not experiencing financial 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She concluded that Nationwide hadnt acted 
unfairly in allowing Mr and Mrs W to continue using their overdraft facility from June 2016 
onwards. She didnt think the way the overdraft facility was used suggested Mr and Mrs W 
were experiencing financial difficulties, which shouldve prompted Nationwide to treat them 
differently. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must start by saying that I have also considered the time limits rules that apply to 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
reached by my ombudsman colleague about which parts of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint I can 
and cannot consider. That is, I cannot look into the decision in 2007 agreeing to the overdraft 
facility nor the limit increases between February 2008 and January 2012. This leaves 
whether it was fair for Nationwide to have allowed Mr and Mrs W continued use of their 
overdraft from June 2016 onwards as the part of their complaint I can consider.
Nationwide needed to review Mr and Mrs Ws use of their overdraft facility. At the time in 
question, it was required to monitor their repayment record for any apparent signs of 
financial difficulty. And help where it may have been apparent Mr and Mrs W may have been 
experiencing difficulty.
Im mindful that it has been widely accepted across the industry that overdrafts are high-
interest products which were designed to cover short-term borrowing needs. Mr and Mrs W 
have used their overdraft over a long period of time. It is possible their repeat overdraft use 
was harmful if it were  as normally is the case - an expensive way to borrow. 
But in Mr and Mrs Ws case (and at the time in question), their account offered the first £250 
of overdraft usage interest and fee free and it charged £0.50p a day for use of the agreed   
facility above the first £250. So, assuming Mr and Mrs W used the full £4,000 limit all year 
round  which they didnt  they would have been charged £183. This works out to be 
around 4.6% a year. I accept this cost would have increased as a percentage of the 
borrowing after Nationwide revoked the facility and reduced their limit in steps, and on those 
occasions Mr and Mrs W exceeded their limit. But overall, I think it represented an 
economical method of covering short-term borrowing needs. 
I have carefully studied Mr and Mrs Ws statements for their account. I think they took 
advantage of the low cost of borrowing to cover their short-term cashflow needs. I say this 
because their spending on the account wasnt solely for essential or non-discretionary 
spending. The account was well funded with regular credits from an umbrella company, an 
investment trading platform and other of Mr and Mrs Ws accounts. There are some 
occasions Mr and Mrs W credited their account with several thousand pounds from these 
sources on a single day to cover larger items of expenditure, for example holiday bookings 
and school fees. Whilst I dont have a full understanding of Mr and Mrs Ws financial 
position, these transactions make it difficult for me to say that they were experiencing 
financial difficulties. I think it is fair to say that Mr and Mrs W had sufficient means to meet 
their non-discretionary expenditure without needing to borrow more, despite their usage of 
the overdraft.
I note that there have been occasions that direct debit payments, including one to their 
mortgage lender, were returned unpaid. But Im not persuaded these were a sign of 
Mr and Mrs W experiencing financial difficulties. I think they were more likely incidences of 
account management mishaps, given the pattern of funds crediting the account to cover 
known expenditure.
So, taking everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs W 
unfairly or unreasonably during this period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman