DRN-3678957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Mark & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) are responsible
for financial losses they suffered because of funds, that were intended to be credited to their
joint account, being credited to a third-party foreign currency account.
Although this complaint relates to both Mr and Mrs N Ill refer to Mr N throughout as he has
been dealing with the issues relating to this on behalf of both of them.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings upholding this case on 15 August 2022 and invited both 
parties to respond.
I have copied my provision decision below, which forms part of this decision.
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Mark & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) are 
responsible for financial losses they suffered because of funds, that were intended to 
be credited to their joint account, being credited to a third-party foreign currency 
account.
What happened
Following the sale of a property Mr N instructed their solicitor to send a payment of 
£300,000 to their joint M&S account and provided them with the sort code and 
account number. In turn the solicitor instructed their bank, who for the purposes of 
this decision Ill call L, to make a CHAPS payment.
L processed the payment and sent the funds on 3 November 2020. M&S says it 
received a query pre-payment, but it rejected the query as Mr and Mrs Ns initials 
were quoted rather than their full names and it only accepts the payments if the name 
on the account is quoted in full.
Mr N called and spoke to an adviser at M&S who told him the payment had been 
rejected by it. So, Mr N contacted his solicitor who queried what had happened with 
L. L investigated the matter and said it had sent the funds to the correct sort code 
and account number as given to it.
In the meantime, the solicitor was contacted by a third-party (TP) who said they had 
received the payment. They had an account with a bank, Ill call H for the purposes of 
this decision, the account they have has the same account number as Mr and Mrs 
Ns M&S account but a different sort code. TPs account was a foreign currency 
account so when the funds reached the account, they were converted to UAE 
Dirham. TP tried to return the funds but were unable to do so.
Mr N spent the next two months liaising with, his solicitor, M&S, L, H and TP working 
to get the funds returned to him. During that time, he was advised that H process 
large payments on behalf of M&S as H is the parent company of M&S. He raised 
complaints with M&S and with H in a bid to help get the funds returned.
In summary, H said it had received the funds and applied them to the correct account 
as instructed by L. But wasnt able to assist Mr N further as he wasnt a customer of 
it. 
M&S said they had given incorrect information to him when he called on 3 November 
2020, and that it had never received the funds so couldnt have rejected them. It paid 
him £30 in compensation for the misinformation, but it didnt assist him in retrieving 
the funds.
Following the efforts of Mr N, his solicitor, L and TP the funds were received into Mr 
Ns solicitors account on 4 January 2021. Before the return the funds had to be 
converted back to GB pounds and was subject to the exchange rate. The amount 
following exchange was £290,254.18. This meant Mr and Mrs N suffered a loss of 
£9,745.82.
Mr N brought the complaint to this service. He told us that he and Mrs N were 
intending to use those funds for the cash purchase of a property. This has caused 
severe stress and worry to them both and Mr N has had to go to considerable lengths 
himself, to retrieve the funds.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ns complaint, in summary she said:
L was able to show it process the CHAPS request using the correct sort code and 
account number for Mr Ns account as instructed by the solicitor. This was also
evidenced by the fact that M&S received the payment query. 
Its more likely than not that the mistake was made by H but as that is the parent 
company of M&S, M&S should take responsibility for Hs mistake.
To put things right M&S should pay Mr and Mrs N:
o £9745.82 plus 8% simple interest
o Pay 8% simple interest on £300,000 from 2 November 2020 until 4 
January 2021
M&S didnt agree, in summary it said:
it had never received the funds so couldnt have returned them.
If L hadnt sent the funds to the incorrect place, then how would TP have 
known who to return them to
Mr N had said in a call to it that L had sent the funds to the incorrect account.
The investigator said the call between Mr N and M&S was not relevant as Mr N really 
didnt know what had happened at this stage and was trying to locate his money. So, 
his words cant be construed as fact. She maintained that H was likely responsible for 
the error and M&S should take responsibility for this and put things right in the way 
shed previously suggested.
M&S still disagreed and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I 
thinks more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Before I speak about the specifics of this case, I think it will be useful to explain how 
the CHAPS system works.
CHAPS is a high value payment system, that allows banks to efficiently make 
payments between each other. Institutions that use CHAPS are divided int two 
categories: direct participants (DP) and indirect participants (IP). DPs can use the 
system to move funds between one and other without the need for any other 
business to be involved. IPs need to have a relationship with a DP in order to be able 
to use the CHAPS system to send or receive money.
Both H and L are DPs of the CHAPS system. M&S is an IP, so as H is its parent 
company it uses it to access the CHAPS system.
L have shown that it processed the CHAPS payment as requested by Mr and Mrs Ns
solicitor using all of the correct account details. The references on the payment that 
were sent included the details of the solicitors  including their business name and 
address.
M&S has told us that it did receive an enquiry for the funds to be sent to it, quoting Mr 
and Mrs Ns account number and sort code, but it disputed the details as Mr and Mrs 
Ns full names were not included in the enquiry. So, I think this supports that L was 
quoting the correct account number when arranging the CHAPS payment.
Based on both of these points Im satisfied that the mistake does not lie with L.
The fact the references on the payment included all of the solicitors details should 
provide some clarification for M&S as to how TP knew who to contact regarding the 
payment.
 
As explained above, to be able to use the CHAPS payment system M&S is reliant on 
its relationship with H as a DP. M&S has confirmed that it never received the funds. If 
L didnt make a mistake, as Ive explained Im satisfied it didnt, and M&S didnt 
receive the funds, I have to draw the conclusion that the mistake was made by H. 
This is further supported by the fact that the funds were paid to an account that was 
held with H.
As a result of the mistake Mr and Mrs N have lost out on funds they should have had 
and have also had a considerable amount of worry placed upon them. Not to mention 
the inconvenience of chasing three different banks trying to reclaim the money  
making various calls and generally being pushed from business to business in the 
process.
The relationship between M&S and H is nothing to do with Mr and Mrs N and they 
should not be adversely affected by it. They were customers of M&S, and it should 
have done more to assist them with this problem.I now intend to instruct it to take ownership of Hs mistake and put things right for Mr 
and Mrs N by:
Paying 8% simple interest on £300,000 from 2 November 2020 and 4 January 
2021. As this was the time Mr and Mrs N were without the entire amount.
Paying Mr and Mrs N £9,745.82 for the financial loss they incurred as a result of 
the exchange rate. It should add 8% simple interest from 4 January 2021 until the 
date it makes payment. As this is the time that Mr and Mrs N were without this 
portion of the funds.
It should also pay Mr and Mrs N £750 in compensation for the trouble and upset it 
has caused to them, in failing to assist them in the way it should have. This 
should be in addition to any payment it has already made to them.
I invited both parties to respond with their comments.
Mr and Mrs N responded accepting my findings.
M&S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has added any new points, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision that this case should be upheld.  
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional findings M&S should now Pay Mr and Mrs N:
8% simple interest on £300,000 from 2 November 2020 and 4 January 2021. As this was 
the time Mr and Mrs N were without the entire amount.
£9,745.82 for the financial loss they incurred as a result of the exchange rate. It should 
add 8% simple interest from 4 January 2021 until the date it makes payment. As this is 
the time that Mr and Mrs N were without this portion of the funds.
£750 in compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused to them, in failing to assist 
them in the way it should have. This should be in addition to any payment it has already 
made to them.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that M&S deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr and Mrs N. If it 
does and they request it, M&S must provide them with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so 
they may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint 
about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc. It should now put things right for them as 
described in the putting things right section of this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman