DRN-3583033
The complaint
Miss A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt returned the full refunded payment made 
from her account.
What happened
Miss A says she made a transfer from her HSBC account to her account in Saudi Arabia in 
December 2021. She says the payment was made to a closed account and it took over a 
month for her money to be refunded. Miss A says she received the money back but over 
£650 less than was transferred, due to exchange rate differences. She would like her money 
back and says HSBC told her she would.
HSBC says Miss A transferred nearly £14,000 on 20 December 2021 online. It says it makes 
clear during the transfer process that if a payment is returned then any losses caused by 
exchange rates applied will be passed on to the customer. HSBC accepts it took too long to 
return the money and has apologised as well as paying £200 compensation. It says Miss A 
benefited from a more preferential exchange rate in January 2022 than had it processed the 
transfer on or around 21 December 2021. HSBC accepts it could have been clearer with 
Miss A during an online conversation about receiving the full amount back but says there 
may have been a misunderstanding about the payment type. It has offered a further £100 
compensation.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had made an 
appropriate compensation offer in total. The investigator thought Miss A made the transfer 
and HSBC made clear she was responsible for any exchange rate differences. 
Miss A doesnt accept that view and says she returned to the United Kingdom at a cost of 
about £400 to sort matters out and says HSBC should keep to its promise to refund the full 
amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC should not refund the full amount 
of the transfer and has made an appropriate compensation offer. I appreciate Miss A will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Miss A transferred the money herself online and so was responsible for 
making sure the account details were correct. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the 
transfer as it had no direct involvement in it. I have looked carefully at the online process 
Miss A would have seen and can see that HSBC made clear that if a payment was returned 
then she would be responsible for any losses caused by exchange rate differences. So, Im 
satisfied that Miss As money would have been converted back to Sterling which would have 
meant different exchange rates being used and that in line with the agreed transaction terms 
and conditions she was responsible for those exchange rate differences. It follows that I 
cant fairly order HSBC refund that difference in these circumstances where it made clear 
that it was a customers responsibility to check a payment was correct and its responsibility 
for any currency differences.
There is no question here that HSBC took over a month to refund Miss A her money. I 
appreciate that is not the main part of the complaint and appreciate that Miss A accepted the 
compensation for that part of the complaint. There is no need for me to comment further but 
make clear I also think that compensation award fair and reasonable for that delay and think 
the delay resulted in a more favourable exchange rate being applied.
I have looked at the online exchange between Miss A and HSBC and accept there may have 
been a misunderstanding. I can see HSBC said Miss A would received her money back but 
equally I dont think Miss A told HSBC it was an international transfer. I cant fairly order 
HSBC refund the full amount in those circumstances and cant fairly order it to comply with 
what Miss A says was a promise. I dont think that amounted to a promise and think it could 
be said that Miss A did received all her money back but that it was subject to a currency 
exchange. I will leave it to Miss A to decide if she wishes to accept HSBCs further offer of 
£100 compensation which I think fair and reasonable in circumstances where I dont think it 
did mislead Miss A.
Overall, Im satisfied Miss A made the incorrect transfer and that it unfair to order HSBC to 
refund the full amount transferred. It follows that I think it also unfair to order any expenses 
incurred by A such as her telephone costs or flight cost be paid. And in any event dont think 
it clear if Miss A intended to travel in any event or what the purpose was.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of the complaint and find HSBC UK 
Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £100. Miss As acceptance 
of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman