DRN-2569364
The complaint
Mr S complains about investment advice he received from a firm that was subsequently 
acquired by Charles Stanley and Co Ltd (CS). Hes said that one of the investments in his 
Tactical Growth Portfolio was inappropriate. For ease of reading, I will only refer to CS.
What happened
Mr S held a SIPP with CS, and in 2015 after taking advice from them, he moved his holdings 
from a Balanced Portfolio to the Tactical Growth Portfolio (TGP). He made a complaint in 
2019 and said, in summary:
He was dissatisfied with the performance of the investment in Catco Reinsurance 
Opportunities Ltd C (Catco) within the TGP.
He wasnt convinced that the risks of Catco were properly investigated or understood 
and it was therefore inappropriate for the TGP.
The investment was inappropriate for a SIPP portfolio because not only was it high 
risk, but also there was limited upside and it was potentially capable of losing nearly 
all its value.
CS looked into his concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that theyd 
spent a lot of time researching the Catco investment. Their rationale behind making the 
investment was, in summary: 
It provided diversification  it had a low correlation to bond and equity markets, and 
the view at the time of purchase was that equities were expensive and the low return 
of bonds might not offer enough protection or diversification, so other alternative 
investments should be found to diversify this risk. Its low probability event risk and 
returns uncorrelated to equities and bonds looked attractive and made the non-equity 
exposure more robust to different shocks.
Low probability/risk  historical information at the time the investment was made 
showed eight triggering events in 45 years, equivalent to one every 5.6 years. There 
was also a low probability of several events all happening in one year.
Historic performance  the investment had performed well historically compared to its 
peers even providing positive returns when there had been catastrophes. 
The investment had a positive outlook towards the US dollar which was seen as a 
positive in a post-Brexit world. 
They also said theyd been familiar with the investment since it was listed in 2011 and had 
undertaken significant research into it  including reading broker research from several 
sources, consulting the brokers to Catco, analysing several presentations and reports and 
accounts produced by Catco and had sought independent confirmation on Catco through 
discussion with a fund manager whose team they knew well and who had industry specific 
knowledge.  
They also said that the success of a client investment mandate relied on the holistic 
performance of a diversified collection of investments. The performance of Catco did 
disappoint, but other investments outperformed, compensating for Catco as would be 
expected in a diversified portfolio. Since Mr S switched to the Tactical Growth mandate in 
May 2015, his investment has produced a better return even after considering the losses in 
Catco. 
They didnt think there was merit in Mr S claim that the investment was inappropriate for a 
SIPP and noted that they didnt draw a distinction between SIPPs and other investment 
wrappers for suitability of an investment, unless the investment time horizon was quite 
abbreviated. It was noted on their records that at the time of investment in Catco, Mr S still 
had a 5 to 10 year investment horizon.
In July 2017 Mr S completed a new 'financial situations' form where he scored 24, resulting 
in him choosing to continue with the TGP with a capacity for loss of 10%, In addition hed 
noted that he was an experienced investor. And they pointed to the TGP risk disclosure 
which said that it could include high risk assets and which Mr S had signed and agreed to.
Mr S didnt accept their findings and brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld and said, in summary:
Mr S portfolio was being managed on a discretionary basis which ultimately meant 
CS could manage the portfolio as they saw fit, provided it was in line with the agreed 
mandate.
He accepted Mr S frustration with the inclusion of Catco in his portfolio but noted that 
it was the whole portfolio that needed to be considered, rather than an individual fund 
within the portfolio. And having considered the available evidence, he hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that CS had acted outside the agreed mandate.
He noted that the losses on Catco were 6.3% of the portfolio which was in line with 
the agreed capacity for loss of 10%.
He appreciated that Mr S had concerns that the fund was unsuitable for a SIPP, 
however he hadnt seen anything that would have made it inappropriate.
He understood his concerns and disappointment with the performance of the fund but 
explained that the performance of the overall portfolio depended on investment 
decisions made by the fund managers. These decisions often involved subjective 
choices and it wasnt the role of this service to interrogate the decisions that have 
been taken and use hindsight to assess whether they were good or bad. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. He thought that the TGP had been sold to 
him as a moderate risk portfolio similar to what hed previously held but with a lower number 
of holdings. Therefore, it was potentially a bit more volatile than his portfolio at the time but 
not as volatile as a high-risk portfolio. If it was a high-risk portfolio then it was mis-sold to 
him, but if it was a moderate risk portfolio then the CatCo investment should not have been 
bought. He felt that in either scenario CS had a case to answer.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion. As theres been no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read all the information provided by both parties, I hope Mr S wont be offended that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I 
consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. Therefore, the 
focus of this decision is whether the Catco investment was appropriate for the Tactical 
Growth Portfolio and if it was in line with the mandate Mr S had agreed with CS.
Ive considered the arrangement between CS and Mr S. CS held a discretionary mandate 
which meant that they could take investment decisions on his behalf. This includes any 
decisions concerning the make-up of the TGP.
The risk disclosure Mr S signed when he agreed to the TGP said "Tactical Growth; You are 
willing to invest, at times, in high risk assets and accept the associated fluctuations in the 
value, whilst at other times, in mainly cash and low risk investments in order to achieve your 
objective. You could get back significantly less than you invest, especially in the short term. 
This allocation is extremely flexible and could vary between 0% and 100% in equities 
dependent on the opinion of the manager.
So, the mandate CS held was very broad, it clearly stated that the TGP could hold high risk 
assets and there was a lot of flexibility around the make-up of the portfolio. From what Ive 
seen, the Catco investment - at its peak - made up around 10% of Mr S portfolio with the 
remainder held across a range of mostly mainstream investments. Taking everything into 
consideration, I dont think I can fairly say that CS acted outside of the mandate they held. 
I appreciate that Mr S thinks that Catco was too risky to be included in the TGP. However, as 
Ive explained above, the mandate for the TGP allowed CS to include potentially high-risk 
assets. Im satisfied that CSs decision to include the Catco investment in the TGP wasnt 
unreasonable. Even though it ultimately lost money, this wasnt something that CS could 
have anticipated at the time and I can see theyve explained their rationale behind the 
purchase to Mr S. And while he disagrees with their actions, I cant see that CS did anything 
wrong in buying and then holding the Catco investment. I also dont think, given the make-up 
of the portfolio, it was inappropriate for a SIPP.
Ive also considered how Mr S came to be invested in the TGP. In 2015 CS made him aware 
of the portfolio. At the time his SIPP was invested in a Balanced Portfolio and the 
documentation Ive seen shows that he:
had an objective of retirement funding and he wanted to retire in around 9 years time
was an experienced investor
had previously taken a moderate level of risk with his investments and had a 
balanced attitude to financial decisions
had significant industry experience in a variety of roles which I wont expand on for 
the sake of anonymity, but the nature of the roles meant that he had more than a 
basic understanding of investmentsThe email correspondence between Mr S and CS at the time shows that they told him:
You should of course bear in mind that the portfolio, in theory, can be either 100% in cash 
or 100% equities/bonds/alternatives or anywhere in between (see the attachment). Should 
you wish to discuss this further or instruct us to change your risk level, please contact me. 
There was further correspondence which gave more detail about the risk levels of the TGP 
and explained how it differed from Mr S existing portfolio - it said:
 Our mandates will invest a certain amount in equities, for higher risk mandates this will be 
higher and vice versa. However, we allow flexibility in order for us to express being bullish or 
bearish allowing us to be above or below that neutral equity level. To explain this more fully, 
I refer to your portfolio's mandate which is capital growth with moderate risk. This means that 
we can vary the amount invested in equity between 40-60%, the higher weighting when we 
are bullish as well as the converse, In your case that neutral position would be 50% in 
equity. We also follow a similar approach for other mandates from defensive through to 
speculative, namely that there is a neutral level of equity but also a range (above & below) 
within which we would look to stay. For the Tactical Growth Portfolio there is no neutral level 
for equity although it has been on average 50-55% since inception. During the four years 
since inception the portfolio has never had more than 75% equity nor less than 40%. In 
extremis, the Tactical Growth Portfolio could be the highest or the lowest risk mandate we 
manage, because it can be 100% equity or 100% cash. This means that it is not 
straightforward to pigeon hole as to its risk level and it need not follow, as you mentioned, 
that Tactical Growth has a higher risk level than progressive, adventurous and speculative.
Mr S subsequently agreed to switch to the TGP and he was provided with a new mandate 
which detailed the level of risk he was willing to take and the risk disclosure Ive previously 
referred to which specifically stated that he was willing to invest in high risk assets. 
On balance, I am satisfied that the information that CS provided to Mr S about the TGP was 
clear, fair and not misleading and I think the risks were fairly highlighted. And Im satisfied 
that Mr S had sufficient investment and professional experience to be able to understand the 
implications of what this meant. 
In summary, I think it was made clear to Mr S that the TGP was a specialist portfolio. And it 
had the potential to be a high-risk investment with up to 100% equities and could also 
include high-risk assets. I think these risks were highlighted to Mr S before he moved his 
holdings to the TGP, he agreed to take this risk and move to the new portfolio and he didnt 
place any restrictions on the way his portfolio was managed. Im satisfied that CS made a 
distinction between what Mr S held at the time - a Balanced Portfolio - and the TGP 
investment strategy which had the potential to be high risk in nature. And as Ive said 
previously, I dont think CS acted outside the mandate they held when they decided to invest 
in Catco.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Marc PurnellOmbudsman