DRN-1805752
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) wont 
pay out his claims in addition to refunding his unused premium. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr M renewed his pet insurance with Red Sands and paid the yearly 
premium upfront. Sadly, his dog passed away in January 2020. He contacted Red Sands to 
cancel the cover, then enquired about claiming for the vet fees and a death of pet payment. 
Red Sands explained it wouldnt refund his unused premium if he claimed, so hed have to 
choose between those options.  
Mr M got a premium refund  but wasnt happy with the options. So, he referred the matter to 
our service. Our investigator thought the policy terms made it clear that no refund would be 
issued on cancellation if a claim had been made. And that Red Sands had correctly set out 
Mr Ms options and acted on his instruction to cancel the cover. He noted there had been 
some confusion about where the refund had been paid  but thought that had been 
adequately resolved.
Mr M disputed that hed agreed to cancel the cover, but our investigator said hed seen an 
email confirming this. Mr M also said Red Sands should have allowed him to cancel, claim 
for the death benefit and claim for his vet fees  but would only let him do one of these 
options. Our investigator requested and reviewed the call transcripts from when Mr M made 
his enquires  and still thought Red Sands had advised him correctly. He pointed out that 
Mr Ms refund was likely higher than the amount he would have received if hed made both 
claims and these had been paid out. 
As Mr M doesnt accept this, Im now making the final decision. He maintains that 
Red Sands didnt give him the options it should have, and says he wants what hes paid for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by giving Mr M my condolences for the loss of his dog. I know how difficult and 
upsetting this will have been for him.
My role is to consider whether Red Sands actions were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Im satisfied they were. So, Im not upholding this complaint. 
As a starting point, I checked Mr Ms policy booklet (in conjunction with his policy schedule) 
as this sets out what hes covered for and what happens if he cancels the policy. Section 1.1 
says hes covered for: 
costs or treatment recommended and administered by a vet, for your pet, as a result 
of an illness or injury 
Section 2.1 also says:
We will pay a percentage of the market value, the price paid or the amount specified 
in your schedule (whichever is the lesser) if your pet dies during the policy year or is 
put down for humane reasons because of injury or illness that happened or started 
during the policy period, taking into account the age, breed and condition of your pet 
On this basis, I agree that  subject to the remaining policy terms  Mr M would have been 
covered for the vet fees and for a death of pet payment. I cant see that Red Sands told him 
otherwise. I appreciate hes unhappy it didnt provide the call recordings from the time. Id 
reassure him that it did try to send these, but there was a technical issue. And it has 
provided transcripts of the calls, which seem consistent with the emails and internal notes 
from the time. So, Im satisfied I can rely on these.
Based on the available evidence, it seems Mr M was told that hed only be eligible for a 
refund of the unused premium if no claims were made. And I can see he sent an email to 
Red Sands which said he accepted the refund option. Im therefore satisfied it followed his 
instructions, and that it gave him correct information about his options  consistent with 
section 12.2 of the policy (my emphasis):
You can cancel at any time and will be entitled to the return of the unexpired portion 
of your premium as long as no claim has been made
This is a common principle of insurance thats in line with normal industry practice. The 
underwriter indemnifies its customer for specified risks throughout a specified period, in 
exchange for the premium. Once the risk commences, its not obliged to return the premium. 
Particularly if its paid out for the risk it indemnified the policyholder against. 
In this scenario, the risk commenced in November 2019 and the policy was cancelled in 
January 2020. Rather than keeping the whole premium, Red Sands refunded Mr M the 
portion of the premium for the remaining 10 months of his contract. Im satisfied this is a fair 
application of the policy terms, which say the unexpired portion will be refunded if no claim 
has been made. I wouldnt expect Red Sands to both pay out the claims and refund the 
premium. So overall, Im satisfied it fairly and reasonably met its obligations under the 
contract. 
There was an issue with the refund. It seems Mr M was told over the phone it would be paid 
into to the account for the card he used to purchase the insurance. He was then incorrectly 
told it had been paid into another account. But the refund was processed on time, and 
Red Sands apologised and corrected the information when he flagged it up. So Im not 
persuaded it needs to do more to rectify this.
I can only make an award or direction if I find the business made an error which caused its 
customer to lose out. Thats not the case here. But I also want to point out, as our 
investigator did, that Mr Ms refund likely puts him in a better financial situation than he 
would have been in if hed successfully claimed for both the vet fees and the death of pet 
payment. Ultimately, it was his choice and he wasnt eligible to both claim and get the 
refund. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M. But, for the reasons explained above, Im not 
upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman