DRN-2798021
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Transmit Start-Ups Limited (Transmit) unduly delayed telling her the 
reason why it had declined her loan application.
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs M applied to Transmit for a business start-up loan in her own name. The 
loan was to be financed by the Start-Up Loans Company (SULC), part of the British 
Business Bank (neither of which fall within the jurisdiction of this Service, so this decision is 
only concerned with what Transmit did). As part of the loan application, Mrs Ms business 
was subjected to a credit check. The loan application was declined, and Mrs M was initially 
told that the reason was that her business was not eligible for a loan, due to its operational 
structure. When she asked for a more detailed explanation of that reason, she was told that 
this information was commercially sensitive and so could not be shared with her.
Mrs M complained, and she received Transmits final response to her complaint in June. 
Transmit told her that the issue was that her business was in partnership with a third party, 
on which it depended, and that this third party was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). That excluded her business from the eligibility criteria for a start-up loan. 
Mrs M disputed that assessment, on the ground that the third party was only regulated by 
the FCA in connection with another part of its business which had nothing to do with its 
partnership with Mrs Ms business, and she asked for the loan decision to be considered 
again.
Transmit stuck to its guns, and so Mrs M approached SULC directly and made a new 
application. Due to the amount of time that had passed since the first credit check in April, a 
new credit check was necessary, which was carried out in July. That application failed the 
credit check and was declined by SULC. A third application was made, with a third credit 
check in November, and this was also declined. That decision was appealed, and the appeal 
was refused in December, due to regulatory requirements. SULC told Mrs M there was 
nothing more it could do, and it referred her to our Service. By then, Mrs M had already 
brought us this complaint about Transmit.
Mrs M complained that Transmit should have just told her the reason for declining her first 
application as soon as she had asked, in April. Since it had told her the reason in June, she 
argued that the reason could not really have been commercially sensitive, and so there was 
no reason why she could not have been told in April. She argued that the delay (from April to 
June) on sharing this information had resulted in the need for a second credit check, which 
had been recorded on her businesss credit file, to its detriment. If she had been told the 
reason immediately, she could have answered this objection at once, and made her second 
loan application in time to rely on the first credit check, without the need for a second one.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Transmit had been under no 
obligation to tell Mrs M its reason for declining the loan at all, and that it was up to Transmit 
to decide how much information it wanted to share with her about its reasons for declining 
the loan. She said that Mrs M had consented to the second and third credit checks, so she 
didnt think Mrs M had been treated unfairly. She also didnt think that Transmit had caused 
any unnecessary delays.
Mrs M did not accept that opinion. She reiterated that either the information she had been 
given in June was commercially sensitive  in which case she should never have been given 
it  or it was not, in which case it could and should have been provided in April. She asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
It seems unlikely to me that the reason the first loan application was declined was really 
commercially sensitive, since otherwise it would not have been disclosed to Mrs M in June. 
To that extent, I agree with what she has told us. But Im afraid that does not change the fact 
that Transmit was under no obligation to tell her more than it had already told her in April. 
Transmit chose to tell her more details in June voluntarily, but it does not follow that it was 
wrong not to have done so earlier.
Even if I took a different view about that, it was Mrs Ms choice to consent to a second credit 
check  and to consent to a third one too. So if Transmit had given her a detailed reason in 
April, she would still have incurred a second credit check when she made her third loan 
application in November. And having agreed to a second credit check in July, she knowingly 
agreed to a third one as well, so I cannot say that that decision was still the result of anything 
Transmit did  rather, what Transmit did (or didnt do) had by then been overtaken by 
subsequent events (decisions made by SULC and Mrs M). So I dont think it would be 
reasonable of me to hold Transmit responsible.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman