DRN-3605121
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society refuses to refund a payment he made to an 
investment scam company. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr C used his Nationwide Visa credit card to pay £250 to Jubiter (a crypto 
exchange company), he sent his payment from Jubiter to experttrader.co.uk so that he could 
trade in Bitcoin. He says he quickly realised that experttrader.co.uk were not legitimate, so 
he requested a refund prior to beginning any trading activity. His contact was ignored and his 
trading account wasnt accessible. Mr C asked Nationwide for assistance with recovering his 
payment on 12 June 2020. Nationwide requested specific information from Mr C in August 
2020 and he provided the documentation he had  which was an email chain of 
communication with experttrader.co.uk. 
Nationwide sent a request for further specific information from Mr C in October 2020.
Mr C complained to Nationwide and it issued its final response in February 2021. It 
concluded, amongst other things, that Mr C hadnt provided the specific information it asked 
him for and closed his dispute claim. Mr M referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint. He was of the view that there was no 
reasonable prospect of success if Nationwide were to have processed a chargeback claim 
and the payment wasnt unusual to have required intervention from Nationwide. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. The 
complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Nationwide) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr C.
Nationwide closed Mr Cs dispute claim because it says it wasnt provided with the specific 
information it asked for. Whilst I think Nationwide tried to assist Mr C by considering a 
chargeback claim and requested evidence surrounding his inability to withdraw his funds  
which Visa does allow dispute claims for, he ultimately received a service from Jupiter. This 
service would have involved changing his £sterling into crypto before sending it to the wallet 
address he supplied them with. His disagreement is with experttraders.co.uk, not Jubiter. 
Nationwide could only have processed a chargeback claim against the recipient of Mr Cs 
payment, which was Jubiter. I consider Mr C stood no reasonable prospect of success if 
Nationwide had processed a chargeback claim against Jubiter and so I dont think 
Nationwide acted unreasonably by choosing not to do so.
Fraud prevention
I dont think Nationwide could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payment Mr C 
lost. This is because at the time generally, banks and building societies were expected to 
process payments a customer authorised them to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter 
of good industry practice, Nationwide should have taken proactive steps to identify and help 
prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic ones  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks and building 
societies had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
I dont think the payment was particularly uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say 
Nationwide shouldnt have allowed it through without first getting in touch with Mr C to check 
everything was in order. It was a single payment, to a legitimate company and it wasnt for a 
particularly large amount. I dont think Nationwide could reasonably have suspected that Mr 
C was falling victim to a fraud or scam. 
This means that as Nationwide didnt interact with Mr C at the time of the payment  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say it ought to have been obliged to have gotten in touch 
with Mr C about it  Im satisfied Nationwide didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payment before it was sent. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman