DRN-2053934
The complaint
On behalf of his limited company (B) Mr B complains about the way The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) handled a claim made on Bs motor fleet 
insurance policy.   
What happened
In November 2018 one of Bs specialist vans was damaged in a non-fault accident. The 
repairs were due to take a week, so Mr B asked for a replacement van to continue Bs work. 
A hire van that Mr B thought was just acceptable was sourced, but he said the one actually 
delivered to B was totally unsuitable for its work. Mr B called NFU straight away to cancel the 
van hire. He says NFU agreed that Bs work could be suspended whilst the van was being 
repaired and that B could claim back any loss of earnings from the other party - although its 
advisor said such claims could be very hard to pursue.
The repairs to the van started in January 2019 and took longer than expected. Meanwhile, 
Mr B gave NFU evidence showing the sum the damaged van would have allowed B to earn 
during that time. NFU put a claim for over £29,000 in loss of earnings (later reduced to just 
over £18,000) to the other partys insurer. When contact from that insurer stopped in August 
2019, Mr B told NFU he wanted legal action to be taken. NFU contacted external solicitors, 
who said B hadnt incurred any actual losses, as its work was only postponed.  
One of our investigators considered Bs complaint. She noted that under the policy, B was 
only entitled to ...a loan vehicle to keep you mobile whilst your vehicle is being repaired. So 
she said there was no requirement for a like-for-like van to be supplied. The recording of the 
relevant call between Mr B and NFU wasnt available, but in the investigators view, it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome. NFU had agreed that B could make a claim 
for any loss of earnings, but B hadnt lost any earnings, as all its work had been 
rescheduled. The investigator thought NFUs advisor may initially have believed that B would 
be cancelling work. Mr B said that wasnt right, and that if hed known from the start that a 
loss of earnings claim couldnt be made, hed have insisted on a suitable replacement van. 
Mr B didnt think B should lose out due to a non-fault accident, and in his view, the issue was 
that NFU hadnt provided an acceptable service, regardless of the policys terms. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU did as Mr B asked initially by agreeing that he should have a suitable replacement van 
for B. In this case, that was always going to be much more difficult than usual. The nature of 
Bs business meant the van had to have special fittings. The notes on NFUs file show that 
Mr B said from the start he thought it would be unable to find a suitable van, largely due to 
the special racking system that transporting Bs unique products safely required.  
When a suitable replacement van wasnt supplied, I think its clear from NFUs file that it and 
Mr B agreed very quickly that it was reasonable for Mr B to reschedule Bs work and for B to 
claim for any loss of earnings. I dont think the file shows that NFU thought the vans work 
was going to be cancelled - although I think B could easily have lost contracts when Mr B 
tried to reschedule its existing bookings. Mr B later told NFU that it was fortunate that none 
of Bs customers had cancelled. But I think that meant B didnt have any actual loss of 
earnings to put forward to NFU for the other insurer to consider refunding. 
I think NFUs notes show that initially, its advisor and Mr B both believed that a loss of 
earnings claim could be made for Bs van if Mr B could simply show the amount of work that 
couldnt be done when the damaged van was off the road. Mr B emailed NFU in December 
2018 explaining that Bs claim relied on evidence of Bs recent daily income from the van. In 
January 2019 NFUs advisor recorded that Mr B would be providing NFU with details of the 
vans previous 12-week income, and that NFU could work out an average. So at the time, I 
think its clear that NFU thought it could submit a claim on Bs behalf to the other insurer 
based on past income and delayed earnings for the van.
 
In a note dated 2 March 2019, NFUs advisor said hed called Mr B ...to get a clearer 
understanding... of the claim. He asked whether B had lost any work, and Mr B confirmed 
that it hadnt. So at this point, I think NFU had realised that a claim based on delayed income 
wasnt viable. The advisor then wrote to B on 8 March 2019 to explain that the relevant law 
meant Bs claim should be based on interest on the value of the van, for the period it was off 
the road, plus expenses wasted during that time (such as fuel). Mr B replied to say he 
wouldnt have claimed for Bs loss of earnings but for NFUs initial advice. 
 
NFU had already submitted Bs claim to the other insurer, and its solicitors had said there 
was no evidence to support it. NFU acted on Mr Bs request to start legal action. But when 
the external firm of solicitors considered Bs claim, it said the legal position was as NFU had 
advised Mr B previously. The legal firm thought B was likely to be offered around £1,000 by 
the other insurer. And it said it couldnt start legal proceedings, as B couldnt show a loss of 
income for the van. I dont think there was anything else NFU could do at that point. 
 
I dont think the evidence shows that NFU suggested to Mr B initially that a claim for Bs loss 
of earnings would be a reasonable way forward. From the notes, it looks as though Mr B 
proposed the idea, and NFUs advisor went along with it  with the proviso that it might be 
hard to pursue the claim. But NFU was happy to gather evidence from Mr B about the 
income produced by Bs van previously, and to submit it to the other insurer. That was never 
going to be helpful in pursuing Bs claim for lost earnings, when its work was only delayed, 
but NFU didnt realise that until later on. 
I think Mr Bs expectations were raised by NFUs actions, so he was very disappointed when 
it emerged that Bs claim wasnt going to be successful. But the claim and the complaint 
were both made by B. As a company cant suffer disappointment, I cant say that NFU 
should pay any compensation as a result of that.
 
Mr B says he would have acted differently had he known the facts at the outset. He says he 
would have insisted that NFU (or the other insurer) provided a suitable van. The policy 
doesnt provide for a like-for-like replacement - but NFU was only handling the hire because 
B had made a claim on its own policy. It would have recovered any hire costs from the other 
insurer. I think the problem would have been in finding a suitable replacement. Mr B said at 
the start that he didnt think it would be possible, due to Bs particular needs. I think the 
unsuccessful attempt to find suitable hire (and the lack of any further attempt to do so) show 
that Mr Bs view was probably correct, so this option isnt likely to have been viable.   Bs van was repaired, and it didnt have to pay the policy excess, so I think NFU provided an 
acceptable service in dealing with those aspects of the claim. I think it should have made it 
clear to Mr B from the start that Bs claim couldnt be based on delayed (as opposed to lost) 
income. But I dont think Mr B has shown that its failure to do so caused B any financial 
detriment. NFU put Bs claim forward, and also got legal advice, which I think was 
reasonable. In these circumstances, although I understand why Mr B thinks B has lost out 
and that NFU let it down, I cant uphold Bs complaint. 
If Mr B is unhappy with the actions of the external solicitors that NFU referred Bs claim to, 
he can pursue that with the firm on Bs behalf. He may then contact the Legal Ombudsman 
service, if he thinks thats necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B on behalf of 
B to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman