DRN-1110164
The complaint
Mrs W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to remove her from a joint bank account she 
held with her husband. This led to her being pursued for an outstanding debt and a default 
notice was placed on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs W held a joint bank account with her husband. Mrs W says in November 2018 her 
husband contacted Barclays to confirm details of a debt management plan he had entered. 
He asked Barclays to remove Mrs W from the joint account and it be closed. 
In January 2019 Mrs W received a termination notice on the account. Mrs W says this was 
the first point they realised the account hadnt been closed. Mrs W received a letter from 
Barclays in May 2019 which stated the outstanding balance had been transferred to a third 
party and a default notice had been placed on her credit file in February 2019. 
Barclays say in November 2018 it received notice from Mrs Ws husband he was seeking 
debt advice, and later in the month received details of a payment plan to reduce the 
overdrawn balance on the joint bank account. It said it has no record of Mrs Ws husband 
requesting she be removed from the joint account  or the account be closed. It says it 
issued a termination notice in January 2019 and in February 2019 the account was closed, 
sent to its recovery department, and later transferred to a third-party debt recovery company. 
Mrs W complained to Barclays. She told Barclays she was only aware of the outstanding 
balance and default as a result of its letter. Mrs W says after complaining to Barclays she 
experienced conflicting information throughout the complaint process with Barclays and went 
round in circles.
Barclays acknowledged some failings in the way it had handled Mrs Ws complaint, and how 
the debt recovery had been administered  in particular once the termination notice had 
been issued and the account closed. It offered Mrs W £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But it didnt uphold her complaint about the default notice being 
placed on her credit file. It said if it had received a request to remove Mrs W from the joint 
account, it wouldnt have agreed to the request because the account was overdrawn. 
Barclays said it had knowledge of her husbands financial difficulties. And as such Mrs W 
was jointly and severally liable for the outstanding debt.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
Barclays had acted in line with its terms and conditions. She also found when a joint account 
is in its overdraft, both parties are liable for the debt. And because the account was in its 
overdraft facility, Barclays wouldnt have removed Mrs W from the account even if both 
parties had agreed to the request. Our investigator considered Barclays offer of £100 to Mrs 
W in recognition of the poor service she had received during its complaint process, and 
concluded this amount was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Barclays didnt respond to our investigators assessment. Mrs W responded to say she 
disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said her husband had contacted Barclays by 
telephone in November 2018 to remove her from the account  and was told by a Barclays 
representative there was evidence of this request. She also said when they visited a 
Barclays branch in November 2018, they were told the request needed to be made via 
telephone banking and she wasnt told she needed to follow this up. Mrs W also says 
Barclays acted on her husbands sole instruction to close the account without her authority, 
so doesnt understand how this can be considered a joint account if Barclays can take 
instruction from a sole party. 
Mrs W asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Barclays to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
When Mrs Ws husband made Barclays aware of his debt management plan, it proceeded to 
issue a termination notice on the account, which meant the outstanding debt became 
immediately payable.  
Ive checked Barclays terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to 
do when looking to recover outstanding debt on a joint account.
Under the section titled Borrowing on a joint account it states: 
We can demand payment of the whole amount you owe us under the agreement, and not 
just a share of it, from everyone named on the account or from just one or some of you 
This is technically called joint and several liability, and you are all jointly and severally 
liable.
What does jointly and severally liable mean?
If you are both jointly and severally responsible for a debt, it means we can ask each of you 
for a proportion of the debt (joint liability). However, if for some reason we cant collect the 
money from everyone, we have the right to collect it from just some or one of you (several 
liability).
I think the terms are clear in explaining both parties are jointly and severally liable for any 
outstanding debt  and what this means for Mrs W. And once the debt hadnt been repaid in 
accordance with the termination notice, Barclays reported this to credit reference agencies. 
So, the default notice on Mrs Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of the status of the debt 
for which she is responsible for.
Mrs W said her husband requested she be removed from their joint account in November 
2018. Mrs W also questions why Barclays later closed the joint account based on her 
husbands sole instruction. 
Barclays has told us it made the decision to close the account based on the information Mrs 
Ws husband provided about his financial circumstances  and it wasnt as a result of a 
request from him. Barclays says it has no record of Mrs Ws husbands request. Therefore, 
this was a commercial decision it was entitled to make.  Where the evidence contradicts, as it does so here, I need to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive weighed up everything provided by both parties 
and determined on what I think most likely happened. 
In this case I find it more likely Barclays would have declined to remove Mrs W from the joint 
account had a request been made. I say this because the account was in its overdraft 
facility, and its unlikely Barclays would have removed any party with a liability while there 
was an outstanding debt  in line with the account terms. And as such I find it more likely 
Barclays instead acted as a result of being made aware of Mrs Ws husbands financial 
circumstances. 
Mrs W says she wasnt given an opportunity to pay towards the debt. But Im satisfied the 
termination notice sent in January 2019 does afford Mrs W the opportunity for the balance to 
be settled in full. This is in line with the account terms and as such I dont find Barclays 
actions unreasonable here.
Ive considered the conflicting information Mrs W received from Barclays during the 
complaint process  and the distress and inconvenience this caused. And I find Barclays 
offer of £100 compensation to be fair and reasonable.  
In summary, I find Barclays has acted in line with the terms of the account and has reported 
accurate information about the outstanding debt to credit reference agencies. So I wont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £100 compensation is reasonable. So if 
Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt already done so it must pay Mrs W £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman