DRN-3502778
The complaint
Mr F complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly settled a motor insurance claim against 
him, with him at fault. 
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which says the insurer can take over 
and deal with the claim - and I can see this is the case with Mr Fs policy. 
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about the circumstances of this claim, and that AXA 
settled it without his permission, but under the terms of the policy its entitled to do 
so. It isnt for this service to decide who is liable for an accident, however we do look 
at whether the insurer has acted reasonably in reaching its decision.
Mr F sent in a submission to AXA setting out his version of events and I can see AXA 
has also considered information submitted by the third-party insurer. 
From reviewing all information available to me, Ive not seen anything that persuades 
me AXA didnt consider what Mr F has said, or the information he provided. The 
contact notes show that Mr Fs version of events; that he was stationary, was 
discussed with the third partys insurer. 
I can see AXA has also discussed this with Mr F and told him why it feels it would be 
hard to support this.
AXA also considered Mr Fs view there was damage to the middle, nearside of the 
third-party vehicle. But its said it would expect the damage to be at the front, 
nearside if it happened as Mr F described. It has also said the third party had right of 
way. 
I think this further demonstrates AXA have thought carefully about what Mr F said. 
But it made the decision Mr F should be held liable for the claim - and it told Mr F why 
it has decided to do so.
Mr F has questioned why AXA have not asked the third party for certain information, 
such as CCTV, but considering the information available to me and what Ive set out 
above, Im satisfied AXA has acted reasonably in how it reached its decision.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman