DRN-1505784
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out by
Mr P in 2003. Mr P says Barclays mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. Mr P says he has lost confidence with Barclays as it has sent him 
contradicting information. But I have looked at the evidence available. 
Mr P applied for his credit card by post and at the time didnt take PPI. Two years later in 
2003 PPI was added to Mr Ps card. I think it is most likely this was as a result of a telephone 
call Mr P had with Barclays. Barclays has sent us a copy of the sales script in place at the 
time and it is clear that the policy would have been presented as optional and Barclays 
would have sought Mr Ps consent before adding the policy to his card.
I think Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P, which means it had a greater responsibility 
to make sure the policy was right for him. 
Mr P has told us he would have been entitled to sick pay and could have borrowed money 
from family if he was unable to make his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr P would have received and although Mr Ps family would have 
wanted to help, I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, so he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I think the PPI was right for Mr P, and I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman