DRN-4153784
The complaint
Ms B complains about the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline). 
What happened
In April 2022, Ms B took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline for a car. The car was 
just under three years old and had travelled around 36,168 miles. The cash price was 
£14,975. After paying a deposit, the terms of the finance agreement required Ms B to make 
48 monthly payments of £295.77, followed by a final repayment of £7,037.
Ms B says on 3 October 2022 a dashboard warning light came on, advising her to stop 
driving. She says she took the car to a local garage, who advised her this could be caused 
by the knock sensor. She says the garage tried resetting the fault, and later replaced the 
knock sensor, but this didnt resolve the problem.
On 4 November 2022 Ms B complained to Startline about this ongoing problem with the car - 
and took it to a manufacturers garage to find out what was wrong with it. The manufacturers 
garage diagnosed repairs needed to the timing belt and engine, with an estimated cost of 
£3,881.70. 
Startline arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car on 3 January 2023, at 
which time it was recorded to have travelled 39,342 miles. The engineer reported:
The vehicle would not start and had poor compression; the lack of compression confirms 
the repairers diagnosis of a fractured timing belt.
Given the minimal mileage covered since the date of sale (less than 3000 miles), we 
conclude that, at the very least, the timing belt was in an advanced state of deterioration 
at the point of purchase, therefore the sales agent should be responsible for the 
rectification costs [on] the grounds of durability.
On 31 January 2023 Startline issued their final response to Ms B, saying theyd partially 
upheld her complaint. They said theyd made arrangements for an independent inspection of 
the car and for the supplying dealer to repair the problem. 
Startline said they wouldnt refund the monthly payments Ms B had made during the three 
months she hadnt been able to use the car. And they said they wouldnt reimburse any 
other costs shed asked them to cover. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms B brought her complaint to us. She said by the time 
Startline offered to make arrangements for the car to be repaired, the manufacturer had 
already agreed to cover this cost. But she thought Startline should reimburse the monthly 
payments, tax, and insurance shed paid during the three months she hadnt been able to 
drive the car. She said shed constantly had to chase them to try to get the problem 
resolved, and they hadnt given her a courtesy car to use in the meantime.
As Startline had already accepted responsibility for the repairs that were needed, our 
investigator focussed on whether theyd done enough to put things right for Ms B. She noted 
Ms B hadnt been able to use the car from 4 November 2022 to 31 January 2023 because it 
was at the dealership. So, she thought Ms B should receive a refund of the payments shed 
made during that period. 
Our investigator said she hadnt seen any supporting evidence to show Ms B had paid for 
the diagnostic check or replacement of the knock sensor, so she didnt think it was fair for 
her to ask Startline to pay for that. And she didnt think it was unreasonable for Ms B to have 
to insure the car. But the investigator thought Startline should pay Ms B £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience shed been caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
Startline disagreed with our investigators proposals for how the complaint should be 
resolved. They said they felt a refund of monthly rentals was excessive, given that Ms B had 
raised concerns more than six months after the car was supplied to her. 
Startline said theyd booked an independent inspection at no cost to Ms B, despite this being 
her responsibility under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. They highlighted the following parts 
of the engineers report:
The current symptoms could not have been present at the point of purchase as the 
vehicle couldnt have been driven in its current condition. A fractured timing belt in this 
model of vehicle is a common issue that is caused by in-service deterioration of the timing 
belt material.
The sales agent would not have been aware of the impending problem at the time of sale 
as there would have been no symptoms present to alert the driver and the sales agent 
that there was an issue.
Startline said when they became aware of these issues, theyd offered the correct resolution. 
They said they believed £150 redress to be fair in this instance due to the support theyd 
offered Ms B and the fact that the car was now fully repaired. They asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Ms B entered into was hire purchase, which means this service can consider 
complaints about it. Under this type of agreement, Startline is also the supplier of the car, so 
theyre responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
It goes on to explain that things like freedom from minor defects and durability can be 
aspects of the quality of goods. 
I note that, soon after receiving the independent engineers report, Startline made 
arrangements for the necessary repairs to be carried out by the supplying dealer. As they 
partially upheld Ms Bs complaint about this, I dont think theres any dispute that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her due to the issue with the timing belt. 
I agree - I dont consider the car to have been reasonably durable. I say this because Ive 
seen evidence from the manufacturers garage confirming it went to them on 4 November 
2022 and needed significant repairs to the engine. And Im satisfied that Ms B had only had around six months and 3,000 miles use of the car by this time. I think she was entitled to 
expect it to last longer than that without the need for major repair work. 
Ms B has told us that, by the time she received Startlines offer to return the car to the 
supplying dealer for repair, the manufacturer had agreed to cover the cost of this work being 
carried out at their own garage. So, I dont need to consider that cost.
Ive moved on to consider whether Startline needed to do anything more to put things right 
for Ms B. Supplying a car that isnt of satisfactory quality is a breach of contract. So, Id 
generally expect Startline to cover any reasonably foreseeable losses she incurred as a 
result. 
Ms B says her local garage carried out diagnostic work and replaced the knock sensor. 
Shes provided copies of their estimates dated 31 October 2022, suggesting this would cost 
a total of £234. But as I havent seen anything to confirm whether she paid this amount, Im 
not persuaded that I should direct Startline to reimburse her for it.
Startline say that, as Ms B had the car for more than six months before complaining about 
the issue with the timing belt, the onus was on her to provide evidence that this problem was 
already present or developing when the car was supplied to her. They feel they went above 
and beyond what was expected of them by arranging the independent inspection.
Im satisfied that the cost of obtaining an independent engineers report was incurred as a 
direct result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. Im pleased to see Startline arranged 
this at no cost to Ms B in this case. Because if Ms B had paid for the report, Id direct 
Startline to reimburse her for that, plus interest. 
I dont consider the matter of who arranged and paid for the report to be relevant to my 
consideration of any other losses Ms B may have suffered as a result of being supplied with 
a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ms B says she wasnt able to use the car between 4 November 2022 and 31 January 2023 
because it was at the manufacturers garage for repairs throughout this period. Shes 
provided a copy of an email from them, confirming this. Ive also reviewed the independent 
engineers report. This confirms the car wouldnt start and the repairers diagnosis of a 
fractured timing belt was considered to be correct. 
Having reviewed this evidence, I think its fair that Startline should refund the payments Ms B 
made for the period between 4 November 2022 and 31 January 2023, because she was 
unable to use the car at all during this period. Im satisfied Ms B didnt delay things by 
accepting the manufacturers offer to pay for repairs, because Ive seen that Startlines offer 
to repair the car wasnt issued until 31 January 2023. 
Ms B feels Startline should also reimburse her tax and insurance costs during the period in 
which the car was at the garage. I havent seen any evidence showing whether Ms B 
couldve chosen to make a statutory off-road notification (SORN), to reclaim the tax for this 
period. And although she wasnt able to drive the car, I do think there was a valuable benefit 
for Ms B in having it insured in case anything happened to it. So, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to direct Startline to reimburse these costs.
Im satisfied Ms B was caused distress and inconvenience because she was supplied with a 
car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes told us she struggled financially because she 
had to keep paying for a car that she wasnt able to use for three months. She says she was 
constantly chasing Startline during this period to try to get the situation resolved, which caused her a great deal of stress. I think Startline should pay Ms B £150 compensation for 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Refund the monthly payments Ms B made for the period between 4 November 2022 
and 31 January 2023, 
Add interest to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year,
Pay Ms B £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
If Startline consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Ms B how much theyve taken off. They should also give Ms B a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman